ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning, we shall begin the sitting. I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Before entering the topical questions, I would like to inform you that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the courtroom "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, twenty-five students and students and three educational sessions from the 5th Municipal School from the beautiful Yannina. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, the first question under number 497/20-2-2017, the first question for the first cycle of MP, the Thessaloniki Radical Left Coalition, Mr.Alexandros Triantafyllidis, to the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the explosive need for a school roof in Western Thessaloniki and especially in the Municipality of Cordelios - Evrosmos, will not be discussed due to lack of responsibility. The sixth question under number 496/20-2-2017, first question by MP 2, Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Culture and Sport, concerning the findings of the Anonymous Society of Intellectual Property (ESPI), due to the absence of the relevant Minister, Mr. Konordos abroad. The third, with number 492/17-2-2017, is a top-stage question for Evia MEP - Golden Dawn Mr. Nikolaos Michou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, concerning the retention of some of the OPEKEPE subsidies due to the inability to pay a contribution to the General Organisation for Improvements (GOB), will not be discussed, due to the absence of the Minister responsible, Mr. Apostle abroad. The fifth, under No. 500/20-2-2017, top-circuit question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning delays in the payment of the unemployment benefit for seasonal workers, will not be discussed due to the absence of the Minister responsible, Mr. Antonopoulou, abroad. They will not be discussed as a result of an impediment to the relevant ministers and will be redefined for discussion, the following topical questions: The seventh question, number 498/20-2-2017, first question of the Athens Chamber of Deputies, Mr. Georgios Amyras, to the Minister of Finance, on the 'SIEMENS' case, will not be discussed due to a workload of the Minister of Labour, Euklidis Tsakalotos. The second question, under number 493/17-2-2017, of the second question of the MP Magnesia of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Panagiotis Iliopoulou to the Minister of Finance, concerning the government's due debts to private individuals, will not be discussed due to a workload of the Deputy Minister of Finance Mr. Georgios Huliarakis. The question asked by MP Laconia of New Democracy Mr Athanasios Davakis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy about the flooding of the Laconia Prefecture will not be discussed due to the absence of Athens of the Minister responsible, Socrates Famelos. The third, with number 499/20-2-2017, topical question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the supply of plant protection medicinal products, which cancels the collective tactics programme, will not be discussed, due to the absence of Athens, Mr. Vassilis Kokkalis. The fourth question under number 488/16-2-2017, first question by the Member of Parliament, PASOK - DIMARMAR Mr.Michael Jeleighs, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on problems in the implementation of Measure 11 of the Agricultural Development Programme (PAA) 2014-2020 in Organic Animal husbandry, will not be discussed due to a workload of the Deputy Minister for Rural Development Mr.Tsironi. There is also a letter from the Secretary of the Government to the Bureau confirming the reasons you have heard because of the absence of the relevant Ministers, Deputy Ministers and State Secretarys. The second question under number 490/17-2-2017, first question by the Member of Parliament, Mr Georgios Vlachos, will be discussed with the Minister of Finance, on the appropriations for excise duty on agricultural oil. On this but also on Mr Georganta's next timely question, will the Minister responsible for finance, Mr Katerina Papanatziou, answer. Mr. Vlacho, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, with the timely question that we have tabled, I would like to discuss today the whole issue that has been raised about the refund of the levy on agricultural oil. You know, too, that the excitement and saliva created is too great. It's not just that money was kept, that no one knew why this had to be done. Most of all, I would say that it is not on the side of those responsible to inform our fellow citizens who expected money. You know we had a refund for the second half of 2013 and all of 2014. This was not credited to the irresponsible accounts our fellow citizens had. Also, the settlement doses made by these fellow citizens were kept. Of course, the two responsible, in which the money went, instead of going to the irresponsible account, did not inform the citizens and some have the courage to say 'if you have a question, come here to explain'. I think that this attitude towards these people, who have been so patiently awaiting the return of these money all these years, is not just unaltered, but unspeakable. I heard and saw some articles that this amount, this special tax was not a subsidy, etc. I would say that no one is saying this clearly and responsibly, and that is why I want to talk about it. But if it's not a subsidy on agricultural oil, what exactly is that? I say that because this is where the words lose their meaning. I think it was a subsidy, so they get the tax money back. That's really what's going on. Madam Minister, today you are given the opportunity to reply. I have here a newspaper, the "Agricultural Country", dealing with agricultural issues, as you will know, which has dedicated whole pages to the whole issue. That means that it has taken too much. The behaviour on the part of the government and the competent authorities was unacceptable and unspeakable, as I said earlier. Today you are given the opportunity to give real explanations and, if you can, correct all of it or partly this mistake that has been made. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u4	Here you go, Mrs. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Our government, in our undeniably difficult fiscal period, is constantly striving to settle the state's obligations towards citizens. Regarding the reimbursement of the excise duty due, as you well said, Mr Vlao, it is a debt from 2013-2014. In the next period it comes in 2015. In fact, for petroleum for agricultural use, an opinion of the Legal Council of the State under number 121/2015 was issued, according to which the repayable amount is offset, not only by tax, customs, but also by the insurance debts of the beneficiary farmers. Following that opinion, a Joint Ministerial Decision laying down all the procedures necessary for the implementation of the refund of excise duty was signed by means of the compensation required. The implementation has been completed by very rapid procedures, in spite of all technical difficulties and complexity of the netting system, OGA data, OPEKEPE, HICP, TAXIS and already assigned the amounts due for the second instalment of 2014 and the year 2015, i.e. uses 2013 and 2014. Immediately, as I said, the amount due for the year 2016 will be paid, using 2015. I describe the procedure, in conjunction with the specifications, which have been drawn up and which are as follows. Firstly, the record was sent from OPECE to DELED. It's the department of the independent authority now. It's not at the Treasury, it's an independent authority. Secondly, creation of a record by DELED and calculation of the initial amount of excise duty. Thirdly, clearing with customs debts, determination of the balance. Fourthly, check the file for debts to the DUs. In this case, if the initially determined refund amount is up to EUR 1,500, only checks are made for certified debts: individual, co-responsibility, co-responsibility. Otherwise, an audit of the evidence of information shall be carried out. If there are no debts, refunds of up to EUR 1,500 or tax information is sent for insurance contributions to HRM. If there are debts and they are only individual debts, there is a central set-off and any remaining balances are sent to an audit for insurance contributions to the HICP. If there are debts and netting cannot be made central, because of a particular and large case - we have cases that have been deemed with a higher repayment of debt, a bankruptcy situation, netted debts, etc. - the amount is entirely sent to the DU in order to carry out any set-offs, insurance claims and, in the event of a balance, to pay it back to the beneficiary. Fifthly, the file sent by DELAP to HELP returns to the social security institutions by the second, so that any remaining amounts can be attributed to the beneficiaries. To sum up, the competent department of the independent Public Revenue Authority in the OPEKEPE beneficiaries’ file calculates the initial amounts to be reimbursed and then nettles with customs, tax and insurance liabilities. Anything that cannot be done by it shall be sent to the competent customs authorities to continue this procedure. In order to ensure uniform treatment for all taxpayers and the uninterrupted completion of the refund procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u6	Mr. Vlavo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u7	He says one of our fellow citizens, Minister: “I expected the return of agricultural oil to be credited to my account. Instead, he was in the DU. Since my tax debt has been set by the hundred-dollar law for a year and my monthly debt is 35 euros and is always paid consistently, does it have the right to retain what has been credited to me? If so, then the regulation is no longer effective. Where can I protest about this? Who's right?’ That's the angular question. I heard you tell me that the next period will also provide the special tax money for 2015 you said. The farmers are obviously not going to take it. Obviously, these will go to settling. In this process that you have opened, let me tell you with this lisbergis you have started, there is obviously no need to wait for anything, because whoever owes for whatever reason he owes them will go for settling. Of course, I will not dispute whether there are any debts, which have not been regulated. There, of course, the state must do its job. I'm talking about regulated debts. Because in the answer you have given me, I really cannot understand what exactly this arrangement is worth and what it has had and what it has in the future to call our fellow citizens to go to settlement, since when they come back, anyway, whether there is a settlement or there is no settlement, you will get the money. That is the essence of the matter and, unfortunately, you have not answered me. I didn't say open debts. There you could do what you think, but you have effectively abolished the one hundred dose arrangement and arbitrarily do the setback. I told you that there was an unchallenged account and that money didn't go where they had to go, they went to the DUY. Both, with a lot of arrogantness, afflict the citizens. No one explains to anyone. They're invited to go over there to explain. No one informed them. He didn't go on a card to tell them that you know, you have a debt, you won't get that money. And where they waited for the money and had arranged their obligations, they suddenly find the money not to have taken, but mostly with unaltered behavior on the side of the state. For these two, unfortunately, you didn't answer anything. You told me debts, debts, debts that existed. That's what I didn't question. I questioned the dismantling of the settlement and the non-credit of the irreconcilable account. You didn't tell me anything about these two. I wish you had something more to say, not so much for me, but for farmers, for our fellow citizens, who are at this moment listening to us. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u8	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u9	On the basis of the legislation in force, a set of offsetting claims against the State against established debts may be contrary to it in any case where the debtor has a certain financial claim against the State. The offsetting in this case shall be carried out on its own initiative. According to Article 12 of Law 3421/2015, the State retains, inter alia, the right after the debtor’s compliance with the partial payment arrangement, granted to him, to set aside the debtor’s financial claims against the State and up to the amount of the debts under the provisions of Article 83 of the Code for the collection of Public Revenue and is paid for all debts to the State. When there is public receipts, there is always a set-aside of doses, although the citizen can be informed in his instalments. On the other hand, an application has been made to the Tax Service Centre of the Independent Public Revenue Authority to answer questions from interested parties concerning the procedure followed on a case-by-case basis by a claim and a beneficiary. There is a relevant document, which I will submit in the Minutes, and I will also submit a relevant document of the AIA's Comprehensive Directorate for Article 12 of L.4321/2015. In addition, although it is not my responsibility, it is not our Ministry, but the Ministry of Rural Development, OPEKEPE will post the sums for each farmer for return - it may also have been posted - so they will be informed and seen in the personalised press all the netting out of their debts made by the IMOs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u10	We are now moving on to the first with number 491/17-2-2017, a topical question for the second-cycle Member Kilkis of the New Democracy Mr Georgios Georgios Georgantas, on the end of the trade in small villages. Mrs Papanatsiou will answer that, too. Here you go, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, Article 31 of Law 3986/2011 established and established a trade fee for all free traders and professionals. There was an exception. The exception concerned free-traders, professionals, villages below five hundred inhabitants. This is a very reasonable exception, precisely because - I think it is easily understood to someone - in such small villages is the subject of any professional or trader activity and, of course, it must be excluded from an unreasonable amount of EUR 650, which is the end of trade. So while there was this law, and there was a ministerial decision in 2011, which set the terms and there repeated the same criteria, with an interpretation that was given, to be honest - because this is where everything must be said - in 2013, in the end, instead of the population of each village being counted as a settlement, completely arbitrary, in my view, and contrary to the law, the number of the total population of a community is calculated, as the communities used to be. This leads to gross injustices, because a community can consist of three, four villages, all under five hundred inhabitants, that is, it can be of the fifty inhabitants, of the hundred or of the two hundred, but it is all considered to be over five hundred as a community. In this way, in a small village of fifty inhabitants, which has a café, the café owner is asked to pay 650 euros for the trade fee, while in another village, which was only one community, and has four hundred ninety-nine inhabitants, the café owner is not asked to pay anything. Since a previous written question had been asked by some thirty Members of the New Democracy, and Mr Alexiades gave us the impression that he would consider the matter, which is quite unjust, please, Minister, the Ministry's position.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u12	Ms. Papanaceu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u13	Indeed, the Ministry's position remains the same, as Mr Alexiadis mentioned, my predecessor. Nothing's changed. You are right to say that under Article 31(3) of Law 3986/2011 they are exempted from the obligation to pay the trade fee, except in the case of tourist sites, commercial enterprises and free traders, who operate in villages with a population of five hundred inhabitants and islands of less than three thousand inhabitants. As you said, the then Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Pantelis Economou, adopted Ministerial Decision No 1167/2-1-2011, which laid down in paragraph 3 of Article 3 that, in order to determine the population, in order not to impose a trade charge, the villages and islands will be taken into account, as foreseen before the entry into force of Law 2539/1997 on the implementation of the 'CAPTERTRIA' project. Subsequently, the then Secretary-General of Public Incomes Mr Harris Theocharis issued the interpretative circular, POL 1149 on 20-6-2013, which provided clarifications regarding the imposition of the special solidarity contribution and the fee for the financial year 2013 and stated that if a village did not, during the period considered, constituted, by itself a community and therefore belonged administratively to another community or municipality, the population of the community or the municipality concerned should be taken into account for the exemption from the trade charge. Therefore, not every settlement is considered separately, but the community that they all constituted together with the "CAPONITRIA". Furthermore, in order to find the real population, the 2001 census was initially taken into account. However, by Decision No 1051/2014 of the Secretary-General for Public Revenue, it was stated that for the imposition of the trade fee for the financial year 2014, the 2011 census would be taken into account. This is the 11/247/28-10-2012 decision of the Hellenic Statistical Authority. Because we have dealt with the issue you raise - a topical question from a SYRIZA MEP to my predecessor, Mr Alexiadis - we addressed the relevant services in order to clarify whether the village concept exists before the implementation of the 'CAPPTRIA' project. The Ministry of the Interior informed us that before the implementation of Law 2539/1997 the term "place" was not a place, because it was not an administrative entity, i.e. a municipality or a community. Therefore, a village or it will be the same community, for example because of its population, that is to say it will be a separate legal person or more villages, in order to form a community or a municipality. In any case, however, for the purpose of imposing the trade fee, the communities and municipalities, as they were before the KPVOISTIRIA, are taken into account, regardless of whether they were abolished.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u14	Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u15	Madam Secretary, I am sorry to hear that position and tell you why. If we all accept it here today, the Members that we are legislating will have to withdraw from Parliament, because any minister who comes will make an interpretation of the law that we have adopted, we will all admit that this interpretation is unfair and we will sit down to observe the fact. I read Law 3938/2011, Article 31. He says quite precisely: "They are exempted from the payment obligations of the fee of enterprises and free traders, who carry out their activities in villages with a population of up to five hundred inhabitants". He says in villages, he doesn't say in communities. It does not refer to the legal entity. It is not of interest to the legislator what the legal entity of the settlement in which the activity is carried out. It is of interest whether there is such an activity in this settlement, whether commercial or professional, to justify the imposition of the trade fee. And I now come and get the details of the Greek Statistical Authority for the Kilkis Prefecture and read to you: The Community of Hersos consists of three settlements. One is Hersso, which has eight hundred and fourteen inhabitants, and we all understand that it has a relative commercial activity. The other is the Kalindrias settlement with a hundred and nine inhabitants, and the other is the Eleftherios settlement with a hundred and twenty-six inhabitants. The one who has a cafe in Eleftherochori, which is three kilometers away from Hersos, will have to pay a trade fee of 650 euros. It's closed, it's one. For the man in Hersso, who is eight hundred and fourteen, since it was decided for budgetary reasons that we should respect it. The previous Minister, Alexiadis, cannot come to the timely question by Mr Beyala, the Member of the SYRIZA, to answer that it is an injustice that we must restore, because in this interpretation we have reached the event, the smaller villages to pay a trade fee, while a village that was alone in the community and has four hundred ninety inhabitants does not pay, to admit, has been through months of this, and the Ministry should not do what it should do. To the inhabitants of the village of the fifty inhabitants, who belonged to a community, whose centre can be located ten to fifteen km away - because in mainland Greece we have many such cases - what explanation will we Members of Parliament have, which we have made, that this is imposed only on those villages - I repeat, villages - are below the five hundred inhabitants? I do not think that an interpretative circular can so easily come and deceive a legislative initiative, which has also been a sense of injustice created by it and we simply see that. Please, Minister, what has happened wrong with the interpretation of factors - basically, I think - we need to correct it. The Greek Statistical Authority has all the populations per settlement and can put in place an application and indeed, in a fair way to understand those who pay and do not feel unfair. Because, it's next door to villages, and that feeling is very intense in all these settlements. I think it would be a move to restore the legislative power, to get a proper interpretation - there is no need to change the law - of the spirit of the law. It is not just that etymologically, precisely, we do not need anything else - it says the word 'partnership' - it does not say the word 'community' - but I think it is a pity that something else would be an injustice, which none of us would want to continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u16	And the letter and the spirit of the law are clear, and as far as I remember, this provision had been widely accepted in the vote. So we're waiting to hear the State Secretary. Here, Mrs. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u17	In fact, we continue to say that this is an injustice, which we must correct. We do not disagree on that, Mr President. The actions that our Ministry has taken are those which I have told you - to the Ministry of the Interior, which we have already answered. We have also submitted a request to the Hellenic Statistical Office from which we have not yet received the answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u18	There's evidence.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u19	And we wait from that village definition to move from there and then the technical piece. Someone has to determine which villages are in our country. We believe that the Hellenic Statistical Office is responsible for resolving it. It must go on, on the basis of some elements - in substance it is a technical matter - so that it is possible to determine which villages are. I repeat that the Ministry's disposal is really to be corrected. And we believe that in the next tax statements we will be clearing the matter and we will not have a trade tax in the small villages.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u20	The following three questions will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Labour, Mr Anastasios Petropoulos. Next is the fourth question with number 501/20-2-2017.Piraeus II Piraeus of the Communist Party of Greece. Diamonds Manolakos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the protection of workers, insurance, pension rights of seafarers and provocative interventions by shipowners - Government. Mrs Manolakou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u21	Thank you. It is true that unemployment among seafarers is breaking bones. Their collective agreements are being undermined. Employer terrorism is dominated by workplaces. Insecure work is expanding to become a regime. Of course, the attack on industrial relations and the right to permanent and stable work is exacerbated. The conditions prevailing on ships are far from complete in all categories of ships, while the reductions in wages and pensions exceed 50%. At the same time, of course, logistics - which is based on the high degree of exploitation of seafarers and the privileges that are fruited by the urban state and all the anti-government legislation they have obtained - has mad profits. Along with their tax exemptions. That is why the statements made by the Greek Shipowners' Union are provoking. What are they really asking for? Workers without rights, abolition of collective agreements, dismantling of social security. In addition, collective agreements have been renewed since 2010, as in other categories, as in other categories of ships. The black uninsured work in the seagoing shipping pole is wrathing. It's over 80%. And that's what the shipowners want to spread out everywhere. After all, you also make it easier for them to do so with your policies. That is why the maritime unions are coming out with mobilizations and strikes, condemning government policy that it serves the shipowners' claims against seafarers and all the workers. What do we put as a request?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u22	Ask the questions. The demands in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u23	Yeah. We call for you to be placed on the demands of seafarers and, above all, for the decision of the administrative court of Piraeus to be implemented and for all pensioners and all workers to be reduced. Also, for nine months they have had regular pensions for those who have submitted and are entitled to it. We are therefore calling for the NAT to apply its decisions properly.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u24	A communiqué to this House. The Ministers for Health, Home Affairs, Administrative Reconstruction, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity and Economics, and the Deputy Ministers for Health and Finance submitted on 22-02-2017 a draft law on "Reforming the administrative organisation of mental health services, centres of expertise of rare and complex diseases and other provisions". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Mr Anastasios Petropoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. Ms Manolakou, it is well known that seafaring work is a particular case throughout the planet, which is not treated as subordinated work in other sectors of production. This is due to the particular nature of the vessel, as the recruitment of seafarers and seafarers can be done in any port, but also in the particular activity of each maritime sector. After all, you know that at Law 1264 on the trade union rights and the organization of the trade union movement, with the participation and unanimous association of all the parties and political wings of that House, there was a separate treatment of seafarers and the mutual law of seafarers. These are the issues that we need to see every time when we face problems that arise and manifest themselves in the field of maritime employment. As far as your questions are concerned, the issue of the RDP, which will be applied for the first time in shipping, will also be to give us that tool to deal with black and uninsured work, which was not there before. We are working very intensively, so that by June at the latest we can have a full implementation of the RDP and those employed in shipping. There it cannot be hidden in this way because it controls the work provided to any ship, this work is supervised directly by the Single Social Security Agency and can be identified as a case of black work. With regard to the pensions you said, I have said that we are waiting for ELSTAT to give us the rates of the present value of contributions, which have been paid over too many years, during the whole life of the workers' insurance. Therefore, until this rate comes to us, we are paying temporary pensions from all four hundred three applications submitted to NAT for seafarers, about a hundred and fifty pensions. Of these applications, however, we must bear in mind that thirty-three relate to incapacity pensions, so they are intervening here and in the CEPOL, where doctors' committees must carry out the relevant examinations and opinions and we have about sixty-five cases of successive insurance. Therefore, taking into account that about EUR 890 is temporary pension, I think that, in these circumstances, this problem is adequately addressed. And for the one thing you have also asked, we have made a lot of progress, but I will respond to my second language on these issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u26	Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u27	Minister, shipping is specific, but it also has a reference country. Why do shipowners choose a reference country? In order for governments to defend their privileges and interests, as do governments in Greece. And I say that, why? Because armament capital really is a cosmopolitan capital. But here there are specific questions and there are specific commitments, especially from you. In other words, on the 9th of January you committed that within 15 days the interpretative circles of Law4387/2016 will have come out. It has not been done and it has been two fortnights. Furthermore, a definitive pension decision has not been made - and it has not been paid one-off - only temporary ones, ranging from EUR 384 to EUR 768. I'm telling you, why? Because nine months ago, that is, before the new law, these people, within two months, were normally receiving their pensions and there seems to be no specific time commitment from you. But there's something else you didn't answer me. There is the decision of the Piraeus administrative court, which was right to appeal to the maritime pensioners. This right must be extended to all retired seafarers and workers. After all, there is a legal precedent and there is a legal precedent. Don't throw it in the trash. You're a lawyer and you know it well. Don't avoid it. In the final analysis, I tabled the official decision of the Piraeus Court of First Instance with the specific sums that have been made by the applicants, which must be extended to all. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Diamanto Manolaku, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of Parliament.]] That is what we ask, that is what we ask you to do. Seafarers are a sector that exploits them hard, hard, and that is even more intensified and it is no coincidence that Greek shipowners have the first place in the world, with crazy profits. We say clearly that the JRC will support their struggle, because it is fair, because it opens up roads to the abolition of anti-grass laws, restoring collective agreements and increases in wages, pensions, social benefits on the basis of covering losses and modern life needs.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u28	You have the floor, Mr. Petropoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u29	Mrs Manolakou, you need to see all the work done at the Single Social Security Agency and what problems we solve. We had three thousand two hundred and twenty-five cases, which had not been paid to the top crew, the officers and we had close to the eight thousand single cases in the minimum crews that were not granted since 2013. In this period, after L.4387 has come out, in order to be possible to pay a one-off, we have already paid for forty-two to officers, the maximum crew and threety-four single to the minimum crew. Many of these seafarers are included in a successive insurance procedure which makes the relevant decisions very complicated, because we also need to see in a number of other funds, which were available for insurance time for seafarers to meet the conditions for obtaining the person entitled to a one-off payment. That is why we will have more delays than other funds. But you accept that in a short period of time we have many years of delays. I believe that in June, with the work done by unifying all the actors and the new organisation of the potential we have, we will be able to satisfy much more cases. Already in the total population of the beneficiaries at the moment we are approaching the twenty thousand single, which we granted since June - in fact since July - which was due from August 2013. As far as the case of the Piraeus Court of First Instance is concerned, it does not create legal certainty only in the sense of its extension everywhere, and yet, as you are well aware, the decision adopted concerns the parties alone. Our aim is not to limit ourselves to that. If there are other decisions and if there is an irreversible crisis, Greek justice in this respect, we think it will be an obligation for the Single Social Security Agency to see in a uniform way that these issues can be resolved. That is what we should do in general. With a judgment in the first instance, however, we do not have a safe crisis in general to regulate such a matter. We need to see it as a whole, through the policies that we are organising for a uniform approach, with the same rules on the rights of all insured persons. And that is, obviously, what we are going to do next. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, too. There are two questions from Mr Vassiliou Kegeroglou to the Minister for Labour, to which Mr Petropoulos will reply. The two questions cannot be consolidated, because the objects are different First we will discuss the sixth question by number 455/7-2-2017, second question by the MP of Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARKKKKKOS KEgeroglou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the major problems and unfair charges of high insurance contributions. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. Let me make a comment on the postponed question to the Ministry of Rural Development, where the Minister said something.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u32	But don't start the screaming when the bell rings next.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u33	There is a criminal negligence from the point of view of the political leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development, which forgot to tender for the supply of insecticides for the murder and the protection of olive cultivation, and it does not even come to discuss the matter. The criminal attitude of the political leadership continues, because it is the only one that concerns Mr Apostle in particular who is responsible for the Committee on Procurement. I come to the question to the Minister for Labour, which is indeed about the major problems which have arisen and which concern a great many issues. Today, however, we are asking for the House and the citizens to be informed about specific issues, for those who have a specific annual contract, for example, EUR 10 000, EUR 10 000, with the employer and cannot change this contract, the unemployed and the low pensioners, who are paid by proving professional expenditure on micro-prices which do not change the nature of their work - a sporadic bill that will be made once a month or in the five-day period - the people who will pay for insurance and then come at an excessive rate, in our opinion, of 8% to cut off the rest of the farmers who are taxable incomes shaped in 2016, but in fact they were in a virtual way for other years. Is this intent to regulate? Of course, we want you to tell us whether you have any responses to the issue of the pensioners of the OGA, who will have incomes, even small, from agricultural employment. Will you legislate for 60% that this pension reduction does not apply? Do you have any answers - the last two did not have them in the question - about dividends which have been retrospectively generated? The dividends, in particular those that are not taxed, how do they fall under the ETUC? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u34	Because several times I have been inhabited by ministers who do not come to answer questions, Mr Kegeroglu, I have to tell you that Mr Apostlelos is abroad. So he didn't avoid coming today. He's just not in Athens.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u35	Mr. Apostle declared the coma?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u36	Yes, from what I saw in the question, on the grounds that it's outside.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u37	Just so I know how to redeem it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u38	Mr. Petropoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Kegeroglu, your questions are useful because they give me the opportunity to give answers for information to all citizens. We have said - I repeat - that it is the person liable for payment of contributions that is paid by work and only for pay for work or income - to say it more generally - by work, because they are not all dependent workers. Therefore, those who have to come to the single social security institution by paying their own contribution will be those who will either see the alerts, if they are not employees, or the ADR if they are employed. A lot of them, for which you suggest they have a duty to pay contributions, will neither receive an ADR nor a payment notice, because they will not have a duty to pay contributions. I understand why you are asking me and explaining: Where we had cases of spending-paid employment, titles of acquisition in the new sense, but where we had these features, which you said, or an occasionally in the form of a cardboard aid, such as the student sharing advertising literature, or who is employed in completely occasional and marginal work, it is not in cases where he receives a warning or is not going to receive an ADR, to pay contributions. So let us see it when the procedures for posting contributions to the Single Social Security Agency are completed. The last case of suspension will be for those who have parallel employment and because the registers are involved and a number of insured persons need to be cleared, this issue will be resolved very soon, if not this week in the next week and we will be dealing with it very specifically now, so that there is no speculation as to whether or not someone is subject to it. One is the answer for all cases. Those who were insured for the work they themselves provided last year and only those who will be insured this year. The only thing that changes as a provision in the law is the case of a blocked job for those cases, which in fact conceals a dependent job. In fact, it has been caused by various analyses of many other dimensions in the concept of 'block'. There's a doubt, because some people are expanding it. Even for lawyers, we say he's got to be on a block. They forget that the lawyer is an unpaid public servant, not a employee on a dependent job. This is not about the regulation on block employment. It applies only to those who provide a work and only to those who specialize in their profession.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u40	The rest of you will tell your dentistry. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u41	Minister, on the subject you mentioned, I don't think it's the same thing as those working on blocks of blocks, except for last year's, I don't think that's the case. I'll give you an example for employees or professionals who have a farm income, a small, 2,000, say, time. The employee who has 2,000 a year of farm income last year did not pay insurance contributions for the 2,000. This year you invite him to pay. Moreover, as you invite him to pay, I would like you to clarify whether the lower threshold for agricultural income will apply on its own. While already insured as an employee or a professional, does the 4,900 ceiling apply, which you have set for agricultural income? Of course, on the issue of the occasional workers of pensioners and unemployed people, you have answered and I believe that this will be implemented in practice too, so that we do not have any problems later. But all the other things you said, that is, those who do not receive any notice for any reason have no obligation, that is what we need legislation, because we know too often that the administration is coming retrospectively - not just now in the past - and it says: do you know something? You must pay retrospectively. As is the problem with insurance contributions, which have been charged to OGAs or microprofessionals, which at some point the OAU considered to be wrong either to OAUs or to the Trader Fund, etc. And he comes back and asks for money. It is a question of which we should see legislation now, which has become the integration of the funds, because the fund itself actually calls for additional insurance. There is, of course, a matter in general with the EPC, but that is not the subject of my question, nor the operating problems that exist either, which has been denounced by the workers, nor, of course, by what Professor Robolis said yesterday, about the huge deficit, which will arise in the EFCA in 2020.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u42	Don't take the FBI thing now, Mr. Kegeroglu. We have a heavy bill. Let the FBI go, so we can finish the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u43	For the FBI, it's the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u44	Not exactly!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u45	I'm sorry, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u46	I'm sorry too, but you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u47	After three minutes you'll tell me that. Now you've eaten me twenty-five seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u48	I'm leaving you a lot more.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u49	This was an interference, in order to alleviate the position of Mr. Petropoulos, who is one of those who come, regardless of whether he didn't come last Thursday because of sickness. So I conclude by saying that, as you say, the problem of ECA will not only be part-time and rotating work, that is, the 10 billion deficit that Mr Robolis says, but it will be much more, if what you say is true, that instead of 350 euro monthly premiums, which we had in the EUPM, for example, will now have EUR 240. So we will also have a deficit in insurance contributions. So these need answers. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr President. We'll have revenue input from those who couldn't pay, Mr. Kegeroglu, so we won't have a problem. More than three hundred thousands of people insured in the OAU, i.e. 1/3 of those with a duty to pay contributions, have ceased to pay contributions for many years. Now they'll be able to pay contributions. I visited the Chamber of Industry and the Athens Chamber of Crafts yesterday and the Chamber of Commerce yesterday. It is unanimous that the free professional operators, those engaged in business activity, are also involved in the possibility of finally having a better balance in the cash liabilities of the single social security institution. It remains, of course, and that is why I am constantly saying that we must - and I would say all the political wings and all the institutions - call on all the insured to contribute to this effort, to make contributions to achieve the best improvements in the system. I am staying on four points from what you have said: for young scientists there will be no 8% burden on the part that they do not pay now. This does not result from anywhere or from the law or from what we have said. What will happen is that they will be invited within 15 years to pay the balance, which did not pay the value that this levy would have at the time of payment. This is not an interest rate, but a payment of its value at a later date. So there is no 8%. With regard to the insured persons who were in different insurance funds earlier, because we had a multidimensional division and the OAU charged contributions and liabilities to someone who was already insured in the OGA or vice versa, so that there are many insured persons in the payment of interest rates and surcharges, it is a matter that I have long said that we need to resolve it within the single social security institution, which has now been created by other rules. And we're going to resolve this. We do not seek to collect such debts through the CRL if they have arisen. This is a binding statement and this is how the CRL works. Therefore, this issue you mentioned just proves the shortcomings, the mistakes of the old system. I didn't say those who don't get the alert do not have to. I said a simple and understandable rule, which everyone should have in mind, that the payees were those who were also in debt last year. I'm saying that so people won't get confused. However, the basis for calculation is indeed net income and includes income, which is from employment or activity. Agricultural activity is employment and farmers do not want unfair competition. They do not want farmers to be able to sell oil at a less cost, because it is a doctor and has large areas, often with greater revenue than it enjoys from medicine - cases are, but it happens - and it has a more competitive price than this farmer, because it will have less cost. The farmers do not want it and they are right about it. For this reason, income is treated as a single. You are wrong, but you have not made it to me as a mistake, and you are asking whether agricultural income will be calculated at the bottom of the base, i.e. at EUR 410. The answer is: No. It will be as much of an income as it arises after the deduction of costs, which is made by the one who is employed and in rural activity. So he doesn't pay on two different bases, with an obligation to pay another contribution. That's not the arrangement. I think I've answered everything. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u52	We continue with the fourth question under the number 2371/4-1-2017 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the retrospective insurance of agricultural workers who have not been issued. The question will be answered by Mr. Petropoulos. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, there is no question of justice. Questions are questions. The placements may include the element of justice or injustice. But let me say that there is an injustice in the system, in the way it has been structured, in relation to the payment of insurance contributions, without any objection. This is a reality that you need to see. It does not solve the question of competition. You like the extreme examples, perhaps because of the fact that some doctors are here and you said about big doctors, who will also have a farm income of 500 or 1,000 euros. I say about a professional, who has a very small income, 5 000, 6 000 or 7 000, and has a 1,000 or 2 000 agricultural income. However, your answer covers the matter in relation to the lower threshold. Bachelor insurance is useful in many cases. Perhaps we should also see whether there is a need to extend it to some other cases, of course, very limited and only to the necessary cases, such as the cases of casual workers in various sectors. But there is this mismatch: While a worker in IKA - let's take it with the old regime - he is entitled to use the IKA and say "I worked last year in this business, he didn't put me on the mark for a number of reasons" and he asks that IKA come and invites the company and ensures him and has some fines. This is not the case with the misery of farmers. I would like to ask, on the one hand and as a farmer's right, but also as a farmer's and a rural business, since in previous years it did not matter the amount of costs, because it was another the tax system, while in recent years it has, they have not been adapted to this system, if farmers or rural enterprises are given the right to bring themselves in at the same cost, of course, to insure people who did not secure them for various reasons, when they worked in 2016 or if the farmer was given the right to report and to be justified. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u54	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u55	Thank you very much, and for this question, Mr Kegeroglu. Insurer L.3863/2010 made strict restrictions on employment with a mistress and was right to do so at that time, because the bachelor must have a framework guaranteed for his exploitation. What was envisaged by Law 3863/2010, that is, the law of your own government at the time, was to make a timely distribution of the remuneration received by someone who was employed as a farm worker over the days that were corresponding - that is to say, that of the total amount received through the days he was receiving - on the basis of the wages paid by the unskilled worker, which was provided for in the National Association of Labour last year. That's what the law says. And as someone showed after this result that represented at least a hundred and fifty days, then he had insurance cover for the whole year. All this context that was set by the law cannot be disrupted at any time and say "I will come in earlier times to change this rule". And there's one thing. In fact, I understand as correct your point that someone should also, by a job, have the right to have other workers who do not have the right to appeal by a complaint to the former IKA, who was the fund for employees before. He could have resorted and said "I denounce the employer because he has not paid me anything at all this time". After all, the worker could not have known that no contributions were paid because they were paid by the employer, withdrew from the wage. He misled them and was informed later. There was also a legitimate basis for this delayed action by the worker towards the competent IKA bodies. Here the knowledge of the person employed in agricultural work is self-proof. And, therefore, it has the possibility, through the allocation made in time - and it knows that within the year it has a hundred and fifty characters with farms - to resort to and give the solution within the year itself. He's got the knowledge. And that is why it is a little problematic to put into your proposal, bearing in mind that for some of us - if we did - it would lead to a fictitious workload for the past in order to benefit from tax rebates. It's a little hard to say in a way now. I hear what you're telling me, I'll think about it. We must consider this with particular attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u56	Mr Kegeroglu has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr President. Part of the answer was in legal style. What do you say? If the worker, who is in a weak position, at a time when he has to make a cut for a month, says the other person, "Come to work", at that time he will say to him, "Give me the bachelor, because otherwise I don't work." This is a reality and not only for workers who are singled out, but for others too. Therefore, his right to denounce black work cannot be exercised because "you knew, sir, and you did work", because he is the weak link in the relationship between an employer and an employer. I think that the law also recognises the retrospective complaint of something which, as a coercive person, was not actually denounced at that time. Yes or no? I think I'm right. I did not say that we were going to get the mistresses free of charge, because precisely at this point is the insurance policy that you said there should be. Especially now, which has changed the tax regime and which is the highest tax rate, must exist. The insurance link will be a penalty, it won't be 10%, obviously. Could be 15 percent. I don't know that. It is a question you should consider. I urge you to create a working group on this issue, because it is unreasonable that the worker in the classics in the IKA can denounce black work and that the other cannot, or even this right that we have given at times, cover insurance contributions from previous space enterprises, which, for various reasons, had not submitted an unsubscribed unsubscribed unsubscribed unsubscribed by the worker and to do so retrospectively, can also be granted in this case. It will only be done for 2016 and it has to do with the previous year. However, the right to complaint must be permanent. We cannot give this possibility to workers with a mistress, which is a great accusation. You often refer to - and I close with this - the relation between basic wage or basic wage with premiums. When the basic salary goes to EUR 751 or more, according to the forecast, will the same limit be maintained in insurance contributions as EUR 7,032 and EUR 4,900 for agricultural products or on the basis of EUR 751? Finally, you did not tell us what is going on with dividends. If it's easy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u58	Here you go, Mr. Petersburg.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u59	The dividends are a balance from the previous question. It's the same answer. If a dividend is a capital return, it's not a contribution. However, if it is a share of the profit from the activity, it is a contribution. As far as miserable agricultural production is concerned, the basis for calculation is that for farmers too. It must be something different. As is the scale of the coefficients for farmers, in the same way you need to calculate. The other topics, Mr Kegeroglu, which I mentioned in my previous position show that I will be concerned about the relationship between this contribution and payment time, as, as I said, normally, according to Law 3863 only within the year. The law does not provide for retroactive payments. So there must be comprehensive intervention in the law and that cannot be answered in this process. We need to process it and see if we're right to do something different than your own law had foreseen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u60	Because I have seen that there is basically no disagreement, let us see the proposal to set up an informal intergroup committee, to bring an amendment to the article of the law and to close it, that is, if that is correct. MEP Mr Konstantinos Giulekas is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad from 25 February to 26 February 2017. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u61	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and operated by thirty-nine students and students and two educational attendants from the 3rd General High School of Halandri. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We are now entering the debate of the last three topical questions to which the Deputy Minister for Education, Mr Paul Paulakis, will reply. The two are of the same object and will be discussed in a uniform manner. The Minister will answer both colleagues with greater comfort. We begin with the fifth, with number 337/13-1-2017, a topical question by the First Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Dimitrios Kremastinos to the Minister of Health, on the scope of the application of telemedicine in Greece. Mr. Kremastein, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u62	Mr President, you said 'timely' but this is an unreasonable question. It would have been timely if he'd answered it when it happened. It has been postponed - I have dates - seven times. It was timely because, at the time, large medical magazines, those considered gospels, “NEW ENGLAND” and “CIRCULATION”, dealt with the third generation telemedicine. And because the third generation telemedicine has been acquired since 2015, the question is what will really come of this whole story. Because I'd like to hear how the Department thinks, keep my time for dentistry, to expand more.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u63	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u64	Mr President, I have many things to answer, but because Mr Kremastinos has kept his time, I would like to use part of his denture - because as if we were born yesterday in this country - and to tell me some things. I'll ask you a few questions, Mr. Kremastein. You were not a government when the telemedicine interconnector system of the Korydalou Prisons was installed with the State of Nice, which then filled the hospital with computers and cables, which never operated and then robbed? Who was that government? Left? You were government. Do you remember telling me whether the telemedicine system installed by the Armed Forces in various parts and island regions of the East Aegean, Kastelorizo, Tilos, Kalymnos, Leros, Ikaria, etc. - again before years where you were government again - did it ever work? Did he produce any results? Because I don't know anything, despite the fact that contracts have been signed with the ESS, people have been found, etc. Also, to ask something else, more recent. In 2010, no telemedicine systems were developed in the EKA, for which 750,000 euros were provided and which also, in two of the three regions, have never worked, despite the fact that they have been able to develop telemedicine? Or, also, was your government and the New Democracy Government not up when various research projects were carried out and various European money-laundered programs for pilot applications from "Sismanoglio", for example, or other universities in relation to the interconnection, with telemedicine, with some Aegean islands? Any conclusions drawn from that? What have you done with these conclusions? I'll answer later. But I would also like an answer. So, all of what you did and which cost enough money, did they give anything to this society? To the islands you're tired of, did they give anything? Because today, things are starting to work, but I'll tell them later. But I would like an answer to them. Do we erase these? Have we forgotten? Didn't you do that? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u65	Mr. Kremastein, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u66	Looks like we're talking to a different, if you want, concept and a different scale. I didn't come here to hear what happened, who got it, but if you want to go to what happened, let me tell you. The first Minister, who set up a telemedicine system based on "Sisminoglio", should know that it was me and that the first telemedicine was on the most remote island, Antypalea. When there is no continuous service and continuing training of the doctor, telemedicine is doomed to stop, with any government and any Minister, much more when the ministers and governments are rotating in power. And you're going to be under the seat of the next minister or the next government, whoever it is. So, when I first made telemedicine in Greece, I had a brain called "Siminoglio", and stations from here and there that had to work. Whether they were working after or who are responsible, if there was no continuing training, if the doctors were not trained properly, if there was no service, etc. And they've closed everything you say, I'm not responsible, you understand. I have made the beginning, which is why I have said so, and I am not apologizing for anyone of course, either for parties or for Ministers. Everyone has their responsibilities. But I didn't come here today to say these things. I came to say something else about telemedicine in our country, and that's what I want you to notice. The third generation telemedicine has nothing to do with telemedicine, which I started as Minister of the first generation. That telemedicine is in a machine today enough, which is not serving anyone today. I mean, a phone modernized contains all the elements to do telemedicine when you want to. If today's telemedicine follows this telemedicine here, then it will be a failure, you will do nothing, so I said that I asked the question then, not to criticise, because you have been late, and so on, because I do not belong to this category of people and Members. In any case, I want to help you and the country, I have no other reason. The third generation telemedicine is telemedicine that is telediagnosis, teletherapy and teletext, so that the doctor can have next to him in the rural hospital, in the health center or in the regional hospital, the teacher, the manager, the experienced doctor for each question. This is called the third generation telemedicine, and I would like to see how you think about this telemedicine. To give and get information, you don't even need a telemedicine. So this telemedicine wants a brain in a large hospital, let's say a university big hospital, give some more doctors, so that they can work this system and, in fact, reduce it vertically, both the aerospace and the hospitals in the center of Athens. Because when with telemedicine the new doctor in the rural hospital or in the health center can have next to him the professor or director of a large hospital, to instruct him at any time, this really upgrades telemedicine and the country. So you didn't catch the spirit of my question. But that doesn't bother me. I'd like you to get the essence of my question. The point is to say that we will do these things, and together and apart if we do it, the profit will be for the Greek people and Greece. Therefore, I have no reason to apologize, much more when I am the one who started telemedicine in this country.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u67	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u68	Mr. Kremastino, I have fully captured the content of your question, but nothing in this society is done by virginity. There is one route and one must hand over the Caesar of Caesar in relation to some attempts that have been made in the past, because we do not start now. So listen. In 2015, the national telemedicine network cabins, launched from previous years with the NRP 2007-2013, were placed in thirty parts of the Aegean Sea and thirteen hospitals. I'll tell you in detail. General Hospital, Kythera Health Center, Ikaria General Hospital, Limnos Health Center, Kythera Regional Hospital, Oinoussa Regional Hospital, Pyrgos Health Center, Karlovassos Health Center, Karlovassou Regional Polyvalent Health Hospital, Delos Health Center, PPI Kassos, Kalymnos General Hospital, Kos Hospital, Therapy - Leros Health Center, Ebronas Health Center in Rhodes, Karpathos Health Center, Patmos Health Center, Regional Polyvalent Health Center, Astypalaea Centre, Regional Polyvalas Hospital, Regional Polyvalent Hospital of Symposium, Megistis, Nisyros, Sifnos, General Hospital - Centre for Health Naxos, Andros Health Center, Theiras Health Center - the cabin will leave here and will not need to open the hospital, Migus. These are thirty points with the third generation telemedicine, the most recent development and equipment where there is a special space, special equipment, machinery linked to this equipment and which have reference points to large hospitals in Athens, as well as to areas such as the "Asclipio" of Voula, "Thrias", Nice, "Juneo", "Mettaxas", "Attiki", "Attiki", National Health Business Centre, "Physical Hospital of Attica" and five Aegean hospitals. They have been certified so far - because I will not tell you what we are going to do, but what we have done - two hundred seventy health professionals, so that they can handle this equipment and that number is growing. Sixty-seven of them are doctors who are both in the district and downtown. There's an objection, as you know, to training people. Not everyone is as willing to get into this process, because there is a training in previous years - I am not sure - he called for a helicopter to leave. But this thing has gone to such an extent for the first time. For a long time, it has been operating with scheduled dates on very many points 08.00 to 14.00 ́ at noon. Over four hundred appointments have been made in various parts of the Aegean Sea, which have received expert opinions from hospitals in Athens. Secondly, too many training courses have been completed either by qualified doctors from the centre to the points of the region I mentioned before, on the basis of the availability and availability that exists from this side, to be trained in CARPA, in emergency treatment, etc. Well, that's what's happened. There has also been training of the staff themselves in various things. Thirdly, for the first time a few days ago, the emergency procedure came into five hospitals. It's got to be together, though, isn't it? Because the big problem of past efforts, like Sismanoglio, etc. is that you have to have a man who has a shift to be 24/7 in the center and direct the doctor or health scientist in the district. In fact, I inform you that in Symi there was the first course to be avoided on the basis of the instructions given by a qualified cardiologist from Triasios. The patient was regularly transferred to Rhodes the following day, without having to rise a helicopter for an atrial fibrillation episode in which the patient’s condition had been checked.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u69	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u70	What we are trying and implementing is both Attica and Triasios and Nice develop - and that is what the Health Region is doing - human infrastructure to make it twenty-four hours available. Because right now it's always available in the morning, but it has to be twenty-four hours available by the doctors of the multivalent doctors at the points we're talking about, to know where they can go. There's, as I told you, a reaction from some doctors, but I think that's slowly overrun. Truly - be careful - twenty aerospaces a year to save, practically the investment made on these machines is being melted off. There are many possibilities for expanding applications, this generation of machinery, which has entered. The bad news was that only the supply of equipment was in the program. The training process didn't come in, and he had first come in. He said that before we took over. And now training is being done on its own and with the guidance of the 2nd Health Region, which I really think for the first time in the history of our health system is trying to operate organisedly and develop the national telemedicine network concerning the Aegean Islands and the hospitals of the Second Health Region, where the need exists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u71	As I said, the second and third, with number 89/5-10-2016, a joint question by the Member of the Dodecanese of New Democracy, Emmanuel Konsolas and the First Vice-President of the Parliament and the Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Dimitrios Kremastinou to the Minister of Health, on the completion and segregation of the oncological section of the Rhodes Hospital, will be discussed at the same time, without affecting the rights of the speakers in terms of their speaking time, by applying the provision in paragraph 4 of Rule 131 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. According to the order on the list, Mr. Consolas has the first word for two minutes for his protology.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I am very pleased that you are here today, because you know that the debate is the quintousity of democracy, and I think that we should avoid discussing problems that have been recognised over time is not positive for your efforts to solve these problems, which we have heard before. Let me remind you, Minister, that in a few days' time in the National Representation Hall we will discuss and celebrate the seventy years of integration of the Dodecanese, the mother country. Some of us with a view to the future will consider absurd that self-evident problems have not yet been solved in island Greece. You know very well, too - from Crete you come - that island Greece is Greece itself. You know that. I would like to see a debate here with absolute openness, and under no circumstances do I want this debate to be turned into a sterile controversy about what has happened in the previous governments and what you have done. You have done so during our previous debate in the House, but now with Mr Cremastino in the previous question. I would like to remind you here that many people are invoking the insularity clause which the President of the National Representation recognised here, when we proposed in a previous debate that the Isle of Insularity clause should be incorporated into every bill. But listen. Here we have to agree on what has become a mistake and what time delay there is to agree on a timetable, and above all, Mr Minister, to recognise that in islands there are people who are literally suffering from health problems and, in particular, a multitude of cancerous fellow citizens who have three options: or move to Athens or Crete or because they are unable to pay for their travel costs, sit down and see their destiny at the hospital without being able to respond to the needs that this great scourge of our society currently has. You know, more inequality than that doesn't exist. So what clause of insularity do some of us recognize? Minister, we have to agree here on three points. Is there any intention of the Ministry of Health to finalise the study of the radiation therapy? Secondly, is there the possibility that on the basis of your intentions in our previous debate here - let me put it in the Minutes - you recognized the need to set up a volume section in the hospital in Rhodes, a very large regional hospital that needs to be the main pillar of health on the islands? Is this also the intention of setting up the oncology and, at the same time, to appoint the staff? I know the efforts you have made for staff, but here we want specific staff, both nursing and technical. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, to be absolutely specific in this question, so that we can also give a definitive solution to a very big problem, as well as you have common concerns with the islanders and those who are literally struggling to deal with their problems where they live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u73	Mr. Kremastinos has the floor for two minutes on the same subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u74	First of all, let me say this. Inside the oncology is the telemedicine, that is, imagine the "X" specialist giving instructions from a large hospital about how a beginner and non-trained doctor should be treated in an isolated hospital or in a health center or in a regional hospital, but mainly education. But what I fear Mr Paulakis did not understand before is that the third generation telemedicine is basically robotic telemedicine. I mean, you can from America with the robotic telemedicine to operate in Greece. At this level is telemedicine and the articles I mentioned earlier refer to. And that's why I said if he's read it. And of course, we would be happy to help. The third generation telemedicine is something different. It'll overthrow the whole history of medicine.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u75	You've come back to the previous question now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u76	It is necessary, Mr President, because it is linked to the substance of the matter. In any case, if we differ from the current viewpoints in the major magazines that are today "good news" of medicine, we may say that, "you know, we're different, we're a little backward, retarded". It's not bad. Sometime we'll get there. But another is the meaning of my question. Now on this matter, I shall speak very simply, Minister. There was a premeditated study costing 40,000 euros for the radiation therapy for the hospital in Rhodes. And I asked Mr Kourublis when he took over the Ministry, whether this premeditation would continue to be studied, and he told me "sure". Since then, two years have passed, but the study has not been done. So the question is: Will the study be done? Is she going to fund it? Why is it possible for a man from Kastelorizo, Symi, Halki, and also from Rhodes to come to Athens to wait three to four months to make radiation, while cancer is expanding? It's loss of life. Consequently, an area that is the most remote region of Greece and which in a few days' time we will celebrate the sixty-nine years of its liberation, is still struggling to be in the same category as the other regions of Greece. So, does the inland disease of the remote areas, the islands or even Crete, which is a large island, have any priority? And they have radiotherapeutics. Is it not reasonable, then, for these people to have the same treatment? So I would like you to tell me, "Yes, we will proceed to phase two in this period", instead of starting stories and saying "we", or "we", etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u77	But let us hear the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u78	I shall conclude, Mr President. I would like you to tell me this: can we move on, yes or no? That's the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u79	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after taking part in the educational programme of the "Democracy Workshop" organized by the Parliament, eighteen students and students and a teacher from the 2nd Primary School of Korydalou. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Minister has the floor for his prototype and because he will answer both colleagues, he has a double year, six minutes. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr President. I can't resist the temptation if you've come back before, because I'm not letting anything fall down. Listen, Mr. Cremastine, I was a reader. I will refer you to “Surgical Clinics” 2008, which describes a real scenario of ambulance receiving a multi-radiation and via satellite connection with a installed robotic machine in place, the splenectomy from the hospital that would receive it, having previously become ultrasound and having been placed “bullau”, etc. I know, Mr. Kremastein. But the country you've been devastated, first we're going to balance it and then we're going to the eighth generation telemedicine. I am fully aware, at least the same as you - even though we have a age difference - of the possibilities of today's telemedicine and robotics. This is the one inmate, because you threw a bite behind it, 'I as a teacher know it the most'. We know them at least the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u81	You may not listen to me, but you must respect my scientific status.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u82	You are not talking to a Minister of Health who is a political engineer or a lawyer. That's the first thing I wanted to say. I can't resist. Secondly, with regard to the oncology of Rhodes, as I said last year, the Agency provides for oncology, oncology and radiotherapy with two or two positions of doctors. There has been an earlier attempt to proclaim tumor positions, which have not been fruitful. What we have done is to appoint a pathologist with a three-year term of office - to say that now, five or six months ago, it has been done - and now people are doing chemo treatments there. You say that as if nothing had happened. This was the first time. For the first time left, in 2016, the oncologist was assigned a three-year mandate, because he was selected by both the administration and the health district that the 12 permanent posts had to meet other needs of the hospital. At the moment we have the opportunity - and this will be the second place - to make a second place to such a volume, either a subsidiary, or to design the two thousand permanent ones. There's such consultation. And I must mention some more quickly, because when there is one thing that we have left five years and collapsed, we must first set it up on his feet. It is currently under way - and many have been completed - fourteen crises of permanent doctors in the hospital. You know that, Mr. Consola? Isn't that a reinforcement of the hospital? Isn't it up to him? It is fourteen permanent posts that the hospital chose to be: Two cardiologists, two anaesthetics, a nephew, an vasculist, a pathologist, three psychiatrists for the structure to be developed, a biopathologist, a neurologist, a pathologist and one for the TEI with the anaesthetics, pathology, cardiology, i.e. the ITH. When did he have fourteen doctors to see the hospital in Rhodes, gathered? This is clear reinforcement of the hospital. Well, first of all, we're making these, which are the most basic ones. At the same time, we also received the subsidiary with a three-year term - not for one year - for the oncological incidents, who already has a regular doctor and works at the hematological clinic. Secondly, is it not support for the Rhodes Hospital - so that we do not forget - that it has received full-scale notices and has taken up a service of twenty-four permanent staff? I'm not talking about CEDEFOP, and that's what I'm talking about. I'm talking about permanent staff. They are, then, twenty-four people. How long did twenty - four people have to go to Rhodes? The vast majority are nurses and will judge the administration and the nursing service where it will place them. There are another five - once again nurses all - who are in the notice that came out now and closed the day before yesterday in 7K, which is for Rhodes. Let me tell you something else. In 2016 there were appointed twelve other auxiliary doctors. They're the recruitments in progress. Also, in these days, thirty-two people are taking over from the OAED programme. Such "injection" of personnel feels that only during the first decade of the 1980s had the hospital in Rhodes. So we had to balance - and we are balanced - the main sections, which perform the function they perform. As far as the radiation therapy is concerned, look at you, I have an correspondence on the subject of the radiation therapy, where half the technical service denounces the other half of the "how you gave it", "why you gave it", "why you gave it", "we don't agree the others", "they've given it out to one office", "they took it back", "they made it back", "they did it," etc. I don't want to bore the Delegation. Look, the radiation treatment sections go with some proportions of the population they need to get in. You're a big island and you've got people. And in summer you have people, and in winter you have people, etc. Therapeutic section is provided for. Of course, how do you call the radiation therapists' positions when they don't have what to do as an infrastructure? What I can promise directly - and I am not saying any more - is this: I think that along with the 1 million increase in the budget given by the General Accounting Office of the State at the Hospital last year - and the three and a half million EOPYs, which your Hospital has taken as funding and which has liquidity, I think we have done a very large part of our debt to upgrade health care on your island. Of course, you have a problem there with the Commissioner for the time being which has been fully financed, but only half has been allowed to be paid. There is a specific problem there with the Commissioner. From that point on, let's go to the next.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u83	The rest in dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u84	I will say in my dentistry more specifically what I undertake to do immediately.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u85	Because it happened and presides a radiation therapist, who has trained 40% of the active radiation therapists at the "Aretaire" hospital, the question was not, Minister, the upgrading of Rhodes Hospital, but specifically for the radiation therapist. I also give you a solution, if you will, because you are right that half the people have been struggling with the other half. Ask the Radiotherapy Society to do the study and premeditation, in consultation, of course, with the Ministry, because there is a need for special knowledge there. It is not the technical service that is for the current. It takes special knowledge to make the study in the radiation therapeutics. Mr. Consola, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I had asked you not to get into the process of what happened, what you did, in an unresolved debate about how many seats you gave, how many you did. Unfortunately, you have fallen into the sliding once again, although I would like to believe that you did not intend to do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u87	I'm out. What am I supposed to do?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u88	Minister, I submitted in the Minutes of the House the debate we had been having here at the National Representation, from the 17-3-2016 and what you are referring to. You said the same thing then.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u89	No, I didn't say the same thing. I did this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u90	Allow me! I am pleased with the number of doctors you have appointed. I've told you congratulations on the effort you're making. Minister, would you like us here to reach an agreement? I had raised three issues with you, which you recognized in the previous debate at the National Representation. Mr President, I read from the Minutes what Mr Paulakis said: 'I think the subject of the volume section could be seen. We will contact the new commander in this respect and we have scheduled in Rhodes...". That's where you mention the recruitments you've said. And you say at the end: "There is no oncology section in the region of the Eastern Aegean. You do have a large population. You have great tourism in the summer, it is doubled and the population of the island is tripled and we will really do everything possible to support this situation and perspective." What are you talking about? Same thing! We need three things. Will it become a oncology department, Mr. Polakis? You're a warrior doctor, something I recognize and I told you next time. Will this be what not only is required by Rhodes, but by the entire Greek society? It has a hundred twenty thousand population and a hundred thousand in the summer. Second, are we going to make a timetable? And thirdly, you are now telling me, Minister, that you have appointed the first left of the tumor. Until now who did the treatments? Tell me, Minister, who did it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u91	You tell me!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u92	So I'll tell you that they've been made by the hematologists on the night. And this doctor who was found is a Rodist, and that's why he's there. Otherwise, there wouldn't be any! And you know, Minister, why wouldn't anyone come? Because if you do not decide to declare three positions as Director 1 and 2, there will be no doctor coming, because it will be what has happened to the other islands. They'll have twenty-four hours a day, thirty days a month! No one's gonna last! You can, Minister! Take it up to you, and we'll be the first to say good. It is a matter that is recognized by all the sides of the House and employs thousands of people. Give impetus to this great problem at this time of crisis and people are not literally moving either to Athens or to Crete because they are impossible. Give it a definitive solution!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u93	Mr. Kremastinos has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u94	First of all, I regret the way in which this debate is being held. But I do not offer to go on like this. I interrupted and told you that you could not listen to me, but you must respect my scientific status. And when I say my "scientific status", I don't mean the professor at the EMCDDA, but the third reviewer in the world's largest magazine, "Circulation". And if you do not know what 'third reviewer' will say, ask Mr Papadimitriou to explain it to you. "Third reviewer" means that even if you don't give your opinion, the whole planet doesn't read it. So you may ignore it and say that it is nothing. That's your right! But that is the reality, since you want me to tell you. Of course, I didn't come here to talk about myself. But when I'm provoked, I have to talk. So what I wanted to say is that you did not answer what Mr Consolas also asked. As regards the radiation therapy for which the first study has been conducted - the Ministry has given EUR 40,000 - will we proceed to the study? Will the radiation therapy be done or not? When will it be? That's the question! The question is not how many doctors the hospital in Rhodes has, how many it has had and whether they have been reduced or increased. That's the question! And if you want to see the statistics - which I do not know if you are interested in - the aerospace apartments in the last year have increased, they have not been reduced. And I say it because you say the telemedicine came in, etc. And I told you I didn't mean that telemedicine. This telemedicine is this one, the cell phone. That's a telemedicine when it works like this. Maybe with the cell phone the telemedicine works. But I don't mean that telemedicine. I mean the teacher's continuing training towards the doctor. I mean, telediagnosis, teletherapy. I didn't say you guys didn't read. I didn't say that. I told you to read this and this. If you've read it, it doesn't bother me. That's what I told you! Why do you go out? I didn't tell you you didn't understand. But you're using a strange language, which I at least can't understand and answer. Perhaps other Members will respond to this style. I can't answer that. Respond, however, to whether and when the radiation therapeutic is to be done. Will the money be given or not to continue the study? That's the question!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u95	Here, Minister, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u96	Mr President, I will not need six minutes. What we can do - and we will do - is to declare a second place for an ancillary medical pathologist. What we can do is predict these two places in two thousand permanently based on the proposal that the hospital will send us and the Second Health Region. I can say that now. As far as the subject of radiation therapy is concerned, there will be completion of the study. Of course, it is not about studying, but also about having the commitment that there is some money to be bought in. When the actual study process was completed - and not the premeditated one, who was fighting with each other and with what, etc. - we will agree with the administration of the hospital and the Second Health Region, because now there is a change in the healthcare regions, which will soon come with a bill in the House. It will not stay the same as the Aegean Charter - we will say more details about it soon - and everything will enter a more general design. What I can commit to at the moment is that there will be doctors with pathologists - oncologists, that there will be permanent positions in them - there is this need - and that when the actual study process - and not this thing, which did three years to end and went on to report to each other - we will see either the South Aegean Region or the Public Investment Programme if there is a possibility for the radiation therapy and if that is justified by the number of patients who need such treatment in the wider region. That's what I can say right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Minister, and for the brief time. And don't forget to declare positions of radiation physics, because radiation therapy, no radiation physics and only doctors, can't be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u98	We have announced, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u99	Good. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u100	We enter the supplementary agenda of LEGISLATIVE WORK A sole debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law: ‘Additional measures implementing the Rules of Procedure (EU, EURATOM) 1141/2014 on European political parties and institutions, measures to speed up the government's work of the Ministry of the Interior and other provisions’. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 16 February 2017 to discuss the draft law at one or two single meetings in principle, on articles and amendments. Now take note of the proposal: Listing will take place during the speeches of the first two rapporteurs. As soon as the rapporteur of the New Democracy is finished, we will close the list and see how many registered people will be. Because I have been informed in committee that they have spoken twenty-five and practice says that in plenary there are usually more people who speak in committee, most likely that this draft law will not be closed at a meeting, because there are eight ministerial amendments and several parliamentary amendments. So when we see how many people will be registered - and since they are over thirty - then the Bureau will make the proposal, for the plenary to approve it, to go on Tuesday, which we have already approved by the Conference of Presidents. And of course, since we're going on Tuesday, there's no reason to go tonight by 12 o'clock, we can stop the meeting with a joint consensus of all the wings around 21.00 p.m. to 22.00 p.m. and start again on Tuesday at noon. Does the proposal in principle agree with this House?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u101	So the House unanimously agreed. So we shall begin with the rapporteur from SYRIZA, Mr Choga Georgios. Here, sir, colleague, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u102	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the recent Eurogroup decision has signalled the reversal of the government's unsuccessful silence over the last period of negotiations on the second assessment, which is now before the gates. This is obviously a positive development, since the return of technical scales suggests normalisation and mitigation of obstacles and leads to their complete recording, with the aim of making a decision on this subject and typically completing the second assessment. The government's position, which dominated and dominated its declarations, "not a euro for additional austerity", was founded to be sound, founded fair, founded applicable and accepted by all parties involved. The Greek side agreed to the legislation on reforms to be implemented by 1-1-2019 under the inalienable condition that the budgetary balance will be completely neutral, i.e. that it will cause a zero fiscal impact. It has been confirmed that the Greek Government is seeking to definitively appraise the parameters of a definitive agreement that will put an end to the ruthless austerity that is plagued by the country, and will work forwardly for the Greek economy, that the budgetary adjustment programmes with a return to markets and self-sustaining debt capacity will be terminated. It is characteristic that the comment by Gerun Daiselblum that the agreement was reached on the basis of the displacement of the mixture of economic policy from austerity towards deep structural reforms. However, in confirming its predictability, the New Democracy called into question the agreement beforehand, put its head deep in the sand and denied awkwardly, unnecessarily and presumptuously the positive sign of the agreement, undermining the national effort and confirming its strategic and existential deadlock. If someone reminded her that according to the first figures of the Hellenic Confederation of Trade and Entrepreneurship, 77% of the entrepreneurs are called upon to pay less insurance contributions to the ECA, 9% are called upon to make own contributions to the former insurance scheme, while only 14% are called upon to pay higher contributions, this may have relieved its suffering from the continuing political failures, which, if anything, proves the intensity of its request for elections, since the ongoing political fraud makes it inadequate and unreliable as a political force. And under these conditions, the request for elections is heard by a side, colourless, odourless and completely unrealistic. Ladies and gentlemen, Regulation 1141/14 of the European Union has introduced, in addition to the principles accompanying the status and financing of European parties and institutions, innovative practices such as the creation of a register of political parties to facilitate the supervision of legal entities subject to Union law and national law, the acquisition of European legal personality, legal capacity and recognition in all Member States - Member States, etc. Thus, this draft law is essentially structured in three sections. The first concerns additional measures for the application of Regulation 1141/14, which are included in Articles 1 to 12. The second - Articles 13 to 26 - constrains provisions of the Ministry of the Interior with the aim of speeding up the government's work, with the resolution of chronic loose ends which constituted an obstacle to the overall and uninterrupted exercise of the social project. And the third - Articles 27 to 37 - relates to the amendment of legislation with additions and abolitions of provisions, which are also part of the logic of speeding up the government work, with the predominant provisions of the Ministry of the Interior, numbering ‘29’. Therefore, the awkward criticism, raised by the New Democracy, of the lack of principle, middle and end of the bill, is obviously excessive and improper political. Articles 1 to 12 of this Legislation stress the need for additional measures to implement the Regulation in the Greek legal order governing the operation and financing of European political parties and European political foundations. The Management of Elections of the Ministry of Interior shall be defined as the national contact point, which shall be responsible for the implementation of the provisions of Regulation 1141 and of this Law, as well as for the coordination of the authorities responsible for cooperation with the European Authority, i.e. the independent authority controlling the registration and removal from the register of European political parties and institutions, compliance with the conditions of registration, sanctions, etc., and the authorising officer of the European Parliament, i.e. the responsible verifier of the compliance of European political parties and institutions with the obligations linked to Union funding in accordance with the Regulation. In Articles 4 to 9, a detailed indication of the procedure for notifications to the Public Prosecutor and the Electoral Directorate of Greece is given as the seat of the European political party or institution, such as the obligation for the European political party or institution to inform within short deadlines the Asylum Statement Committee the bank accounts and the identity and contact details of the economic representation officials, the supporting documents - proof of the costs, the keeping of a detailed record and the category accounting secretariat. The solution of the European political party or institution shall be done in accordance with the procedure provided for in Article 16 of the Rules of Procedure, in which case the Elections Directorate of the Ministry of Interior shall inform the Prosecutor of the Ice Arena of the adoption of such an act and shall impose strict penalties for infringements of the legislation, i.e. a fine of up to EUR 150 000 imposed by a decision of the President of the Parliament and collected in accordance with the provisions of the CED. The second section includes Articles 13 to 26 concerning the provisions of the Ministry of the Interior and seeks to speed up the government's work. In particular, provisions on the legal protection of EUCI staff are contained. Law 2713/1999 on the internal affairs service of the Greek Police is amended. Time-limits are extended for the adoption of reverse operations, given that a small number of TAs have failed to comply with them, and the procedure for the reopening of those commitments is impossible. An exceptional extension of the time limits for the adoption and development of analytical acts was necessary. The costs of the regions are cleared. Article 20 introduces an interpretative provision in Article 23(2) of Law No.3756, clarifying that not only the undertakings operating within casinos, but also the casino company itself, are obliged to pay in favour of the municipality concerned 2% rather than 0.5% of their gross income. Article 25 resolves the question of the payment of the costs of cleaning public services and OTEs to employees with individual fixed-term works contracts, the end of which was extended until 31 December 2017 and which were considered to be legitimate and to be cleared at the expense of the appropriations of the relevant bodies. Specifically for the clearance of the costs incurred by the first-degree TAA services, this provision proposes that they be covered by the revenues in priority, other than any type of revenue, even with an unspecified objective. We have had enough debate here on the legality of the whole procedure. It is not right for those who claimed it. This is an extension of individual employment contracts for one year with the aim of definitively resolving a chronic issue that must be dealt with in a comprehensive way and making a contribution to Parliament's full scale. This is how it should be done to put a definitive end to this story. Under Article 26 the former municipal police officers who have already joined the Hellenic Police, who have been special civil staff to date, are classified as special guards or as permanent civilian personnel by means of an act for the implementation of the anticipated psychological trials at a postgraduate and training schools of the Greek Police for four months. Following the relevant legislative improvement proposed by the relevant Minister, after eight years as special guards, they may become permanent staff of the police. In the third section of this draft law, very useful provisions relating to elections are inserted in Articles 24 to 44 to show the administrative bodies of Chambers that, in view of their radical restructuring and pending the completion of the relevant process, there is an extension to take place between 5 and 19 November 2017, by changing the purpose of Greece's participation in the European Bank for Technical Cooperation in the Special Technical Cooperation Fund for Reconstruction and Development, the retroactive compensation of private members of collective bodies, resolving a timely pendingity. Article 30 identifies the sources of revenue from the Civil Aviation Authority and the Civil Aviation Service. Article 32 concerns the resolution of the chronic issue of mortgages by converting a special unpaid mortgage box into an inertia when its inertia is to be addressed in the event of the death or final withdrawal of the special paid mortgage guard. This is a step in the right direction, and indeed in the way of making the mortgage and property services public later, since the shedding shed does not present any or almost any investment interest in attracting private initiative, as is the case in several areas of the country, especially in the years of the economic crisis. During the procedure in the committees, criticisms were expressed of the possible unconstitutionality of Article 32, due to the constitutional prediction of employees in the capacity of the judiciary and those promoted by the draft private-law scheme, without the status of the judiciary. However, the fact that there are already employees with employment for an indefinite period of time, but as judges - around four hundred - without having been called into question to date as judges, means that it is possible to legally involve work under a contract of private law with an indefinite duration and the status of a judiciary. After all, the regulation is in the interests of the worker, with this obvious importance. Article 40 proposes to add provisions of L.4375/2016 aimed at more effective functioning of the Asylum Service. According to them, the application of specific provisions is extended by one year until 31/12/2017 and the derogation from the existing legislation on public procurement is forgiven for matters they seek, for the needs of migrants and refugees, housing, feeding, medical care, etc., for the secondment of staff from the public and the wider public sector, or for the recruitment of staff under public law contracts of indefinite duration working in international or European organisations in competent services, i.e. asylum, recognition, and in general for the treatment of emergency needs arising from the need to manage migratory and refugee flows. In this context, the structure of the asylum service is redefined by establishing another office in the programme management and implementation section and its responsibilities are redefined. Article 40 has been severely criticised by the New Democracy in particular. Rather, he was caught in a sterile opposition and populist move since the liquidity that prevails around the issues of migrants and refugees is known and imposes maximisation of the vile during criticism, thus compelling the relevant Minister to describe the exceptional circumstances that require decisions to be taken by way of derogation from the existing legal framework, saying: "I know that reality is not adapted to the law, but the law must be adapted to reality". With Articles 43 and 44, he attempted the Opposition and, in particular, the New Democracy to slander the moral advantage of the Left, the timeless political nightmare that supposedly the criticisms of the officers in the Port Corps would not be merital, but will be done in a fraudulent manner, that is to say, with the intention of choosing the "the rulers". Indeed, there was no evidence that this provision was already in force in May 2016 and therefore no one was surprised or could be surprised. In particular, however, Article 44 regulates the attempt to prevent the smooth development of the port officers in a manner that is unfair and misguided by the flawless New Democracy - PASOK government that took care to bring the law into force 4256 in April 2014, i.e. a few months before the elections. This explains your obsession, gentlemen of the New Democracy, that it is allegedly the time of the crises photographs the Government's intention to “masters”. In other words, you've been afraid to do this and you've done it, and you've made it a national sport. In particular, Article 33(3) of Law No 4256/2016 abolished the unlikely provision on the liability of the service, an incompletely obsolete and inadmissible for a favoured society with an elementary democratic provision. A provision for which no one is entitled to be proud of its legislation, because the representatives of the port were deprived of the right to promote events which had no connection and of course no fault whatsoever. The unheard of case (a) of Article 33(3) of Law 4256 introduced by the Government of New Democracy, also a new legislative term, is abolished. Listen. A few months before the April 2014 elections, the Government of New Democracy - PASOK made the three-year pre-service available to a central office of the Port Corps, which normally has its seat within Attica as a prerequisite for promotion. So port staff at regional offices were automatically excluded from the promotion to the level of Commander. And this illegal, immoral and manifestly unconstitutional provision is abolished. [[Mr DIMITRIOS KRIMASTINOS]] This situation in the Port House also continued a few months before the elections when by order also of Law 4256/2014 this New Democracy - PASOK government hit again. As an additional condition of promotion to the extent of the Archipelagos' pre-service, he set the two-year pre-service at the central office of the Port Authority, i.e. again in service within Attica, so no officer could be promoted by a Commander or above if he did not serve within Attica. Who, then, was it working? 'Days'? Even in the face of elections? This provision is proudly abolished by the government and is now being promoted to the extent of the Archipelago. It is only the service of at least one year at a central or regional office of the Port House. Article 45 gives the opportunity to enter vacant posts, in which case it restores the vacancy of the position ‘Great operation of the Port Body’. Finally, with Article 47, after about a year of consultation, it was decided that the regulation in the way it was introduced for the vote covers a large part of the issues of general and local bodies of improvement and their transfer of supervision to the regions, despite any problems, was the only hopeful option. Mr President, allow me to comment briefly on Article 36, which is made in Article 35, which concerns an amendment tabled by Mr Triantafyllidis and I think, Minister, that it must be supported because it concerns the declaration of the Greek world day. More support must be given to this particular object, which has a legal improvement and is recast as follows: "In order to protect, strengthen and promote the Greek language and the international community of culture, education, letters, arts, communication and the Internet". Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to overcome your political hesitations, especially to resist the secret charm of the sterile opposition and to vote in favour of this bill that remains to decorate Greek legislation with your own refusal. But there is time to vote positively. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u103	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-six students and students and two educational attendants from the 3rd General High School of Halandri. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The rapporteur, Mr George Georgios Georgios, will now have the floor for fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr President. One thing is certain, Mr Colleague, that the slogans and arguments on the part of the government are beginning to be deprived. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The truth is that, today, if anyone asks what is being discussed in this House precisely, many of the Members here will find it difficult to answer. What bill are we talking about? What's the beginning of the bill, which we're talking about? What is it what we wanted here today in law to project, cover up, so that we can improve the lives of our fellow citizens? There is a bill, at which we have the honour of being here four ministers - three of them now, four were before - to come up with provisions which, without any central axis, without any planning, without any central idea, come to sort out basically outstanding issues and settle issues. Unfortunately, we have a bill in which once again, until now we are talking about, we have thirty-five amendments, many of which ministerial amendments. Even ministerial ministers with bills tabled by their ministries. So you understand that all this despairs the parliamentary procedure, it also despises our presence here today. I will not avoid the temptation to refer to what was initiated by Mr SYRIZA's colleague, about the 'existence of the New Democracy'. That's what he said, ladies and gentlemen. Colleague, the deadlock is real. It's real for the government, it's real and it's about its policies, its choices and its practices. I think the drum impacts of the first 24 hours have stopped. At the moment, they are all concerned about what is going on, there is an abundance by the Minister responsible, and I think we all understand what will come in here next. And in relation to the so-called sterile opposition of New Democracy, I think it is well known in the world's consciousness that whenever the New Democracy had to have a place of responsibility, it took it at a political cost, always seeing the interest of the country. Even in legislation - let me say this - it is well known that the New Democracy is voting quite a large proportion of the legislation which comes or specific provisions on them. I think it could be 30% maybe 40%. Let me remind you that the two-and-a-half years of the previous government were not passed on by SYRIZA or a bill or an article. For two and a half years! We now go on to the bill in which I will try to make a start-up, which does not exist. The truth is that it is our obligation to apply Regulation 1141/2014 on European political parties and foundations to deposit this bill. These are the only provisions from Article 1 to Article 12 which we are voting for, since we are also obliged to apply this regulation. In order to justify any intervention on the part of the Government, there is a very dear term to the ruling "measures to speed up government work". You are looking to see what measures are to speed up the government's work, but there must first be governmental work to have speeding up measures. In any case, I have to deal with specific provisions, which are not accelerating the government's work, it is precisely what we call a settlement of issues. Because there is no beginning in the bill, we will enter a debate on the articles in this sitting, as my colleague has done, and as is unfortunately the case for most of the speakers who have asked for the floor, because there is no beginning on this bill. I would like to make a few remarks on a few articles, which of course have the strong dismantling on the part of the New Democracy and will not be able to support them. One of them is Article 25. There is a lot of talk about the cleanliness of public buildings, as the only issues in the country are the cleanliness of public buildings, there are no other issues in the country. All aspects of the cleanliness of public buildings must be dealt with. It has a wrong choice for the government from the very beginning, which is continuing it. An anti-constitutional provision for extension of cleaning contracts came in, and it is trying with other provisions that continue to settle it, but it cannot be settled, precisely because it is an anti-constitutional provision. Today, then, we have another amendment on the basis of which they are considered legitimate, namely, payments for the provision of these services. We could accept to a certain extent that, although we have noted them many times, the government has not taken note of the issues of unconstitutionality and now that it has found them, because the Court of Auditors has come and refused the payment of the orders, it is trying to pay for the time that the service actually offered by the workers has expired. However, this provision, as it is written, does not concern, ladies and gentlemen, only in the past year. It is essentially a provision that comes - rather it is trying - to legitimise all payments by the end of 2017, when we say that it is unacceptable to have this extension. It is not just us who say it, it is almost all the political parties, but it is said by the law that those responsible for assessing and judging the legitimacy of such a provision. So the government is now coming here and is trying in a way, which is completely in contradiction with the position, with the case law of the Court of Auditors, to overcome this problem of constitutionality which has created and, at the same time, caught these workers in such a process with false expectations and promises, which have been heard by ministers and at the same time with weakness in their actual payment. Gentlemen of the government, stop this process! If you really think there are standing needs to be met in this area - in fact, the municipalities and municipal councils themselves will be judged - give them no opportunity, simply point them out to make use of the laws that exist and get a permanent staff. We all know - and those who do not know must know - that there is no ban on permanent recruitment in cleanliness, because it is a rewarding one. Recruitment of permanent staff shall be excluded from cleaning from the ratio four to one or three to one. Any municipality that wants and assesses that needs to be able to declare a permanent place of staff. Why has this not been requested by the municipalities and is interfering with it? Why should we not say that it serves a specific purpose to caging these contractors in a process of false expectation of permanentization? I think this story has to end to everyone. Article 39. In Article 39 we have a regulation which, in essence, buys an intervention in the Act on Mobility Transfers, as we voted for it two months ago. Minister, this law on which we had our disagreements and our objections in any case was passed. It has the specific conditions, which we hope will be met by the next period of time, so that it can be implemented and operated. In other words, the establishment plans should be made so that applications from the officials concerned can then be made, as you have decided in this law. Are there essentially transitional provisions, which you know what they're doing, Mr. President? As the government sees, which is what we have been talking about, the law has prerequisites, which will not be able to pay until 15 April, it is basically back to settle only the issues it wants. In other words, posted officials who were seconded on the day of the law are able to transfer to the services they want. This may sound negative, but I would like to tell you this: seconded on the day of the law. Do you know how many secondments were made one and two months before the law was passed by those who had either internal information or then were in consultation with this bill? Is the Minister able to tell us how many postings some officials wanted, took place in November and October 2016? I could be in favour of this provision if it concerned posted at least six months ago. Your term of office again, but at least six months ago. Before, that is to say, this law is decided by the government that it must be voted on before it comes into consultation before it passes through the committees before it is voted on. I, at the moment, have my great objection to this particular arrangement, because I believe that it comes purely rospheologically to settle all the distractions, which took place at the very moment since the law was passed, and I will request at some point also the elements of the extracts that took place in October and November 2016. So when it comes to a law that you normally have to put into practice in a month and a half from now on, we cannot come and distort its meaning, what you said by means of its legislation, and have these transitional provisions, which conceal arrangements of days. In relation to Article 40, finally the emergency needs and conditions which exist with regard to the refugee question until when will they be there in that country? We accepted for ourselves and voted for ourselves here as the New Democracy in 2015, with those refugee and migration flows, what was necessary so that the process of receiving, resolving and feeding these people could work, accepting indeed that there were exceptional and unforeseen needs, which had to somehow be addressed. But this wave ended after a few months. Can we still come to this exceptional procedure of direct awards, without any criterion, without any element of transparency? And right now, while we know what the number of refugees in the country is, while we know what it takes for them, should society once again say that the biggest party is held in refugee? Haven't you heard of that? I hear it everywhere. In Kilkiss, because we had a lot of refugees, we may have heard it a little more. I think, however, that this story has become diffuse throughout society and has led to something else. It removes some people from showing a sympathy to the issues of refugees. Because they consider that at the end of the day, as it has been done at the moment, it has become a familial through which some earn money in a non-legal way or others gain employment contracts. All of this, as you have left it and done, and which you are now coming and stepping up with this particular regulation, leads to such a belief on the part of the Greek people. And we are all obliged here to change the Greek people's conviction. There are currently no exceptional conditions in the refugee region. We know how many refugees are, we know what it takes for their feeding. I think it is unacceptable, ladies and gentlemen, that we vote two years after the same order. There are many other provisions which, of course, we will vote against, many which we do not understand and many which have not been answered. For example, as regards the provision on the issue of men in home affairs, a first question comes up is what will happen with those who are already serving. There is no transitional provision for already servants. Are these provisions to be applied for those who are newly joined in this House or for those who serve? I think there should be no transitional provision. For those who are already serving, the provisions by which they entered this House must be applied, because they have also evaluated some things and that is why they have entered. Of course, in such a service, we should leave a possibility of independence and autonomy to the service, but also to the service it serves there. Because, precisely, this is the purpose of these special provisions, to be able independently to operate the policeman who will choose this service and will be deemed worth going to this service. There are many amendments which, unfortunately, outside one - two - which have one logic, a feasibility and serve an urgent situation, and which we will assess and specifically mention, most of which are amendments which cannot be accepted at all. We cannot have an amendment from the Ministry of Health when the Ministry of Health has tabled a bill. Where there is a bill which is pending, can we now discuss an amendment from the Ministry of Health? Nor can we, beyond any constitutional provision, go beyond any normality treaty, go beyond any logic today and for those who have been recognised by judicial decisions or by the type of their employment relationship, but do not fulfil the formal criteria for it to be in the public, to go beyond that, and must join the public by way of derogation. There are many issues that arise and which I think really come and resolve situations. Ladies and gentlemen, we must finally end this way of legislating, which also deceives Parliament and ultimately does not serve your purpose. Because this whole picture has been transferred to society. All this picture, which is followed up by the parliamentary or ministerial amendments, with legislation which has no beginning, middle and end, do not think you are being given any points in society. You may take care of some specific requests, some specific groups, but the majority of the Greek people, the silent majority of the Greek people, having condemned these practices and now watching you try to serve them to the greatest extent, in a time of crisis, to be sure that what will give the end is its credit. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, too. Mr. Panayotarus, special speaker of the Golden Dawn, has the floor for fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr President. We heard before the SYRIZA rapporteur, who started by commenting on the Eurogroup's decision, happy to say that the Eurogroup's decision marks the reversal of the situation, the development of the economy and so on, a caramel, a tape that you have been repeating lately. You're trying to convince yourself. The point, of course, is that we do not know the straw balls, the hamballs you have out for who they are, whether they are for your voters or for someone else who is trying to feed him with spoon to convince him that everything is going well. All this is happening at the same time as the whole of Europe is boiling, changing, and one country after another has started and struggled to choose a different path, which has nothing to do with this dreadful, corrupted, corrupt European Union, which tries in any way to undermine the nations and the peoples. The changes began with the Brexit in England, with the coming rise, the Lepen prototype in France, with what is happening in the Netherlands, the Italian referendum in Italy, where the Italian people have shown a completely different direction, but they are still pushing it. And of course, let us not forget that first of all the Greeks stood up or tried to rise, where the 2015 referendum showed where the Greek Government should go. You, too, are heading in the opposite direction. We have a change of track across Europe, on economic issues, on illegal immigration, on Islamic invasion, on all of this, and here you are insisting and insisting that you lead the country to the cliff. And bring another rosphetological multi-branded soup, mostly, which is not one, is forty-nine articles. Although the title says ‘Supplementary Measures for the implementation of Regulation (EU, Euratom) 1141/2014 on European political parties and institutions, measures to speed up the government work of the Ministry of the Interior and other provisions’, only thirteen first have to do with complementary measures for the implementation of the European Union Regulation. In addition to repeating the standing position of the Golden Dawn, which, as long as the weather gets more documented, more correct and more Greeks follow it, we would like to ask what action it takes to take for the European parties, at the same time as the entire construction of the European Union is symmetrical. And you're talking about the European parties. We'll get you an example. Alliance For Peace and Freedom is a European party, which had been set up and banned by funding, because it was not in line with the European Union's measures and standards, as these few people are evangelizing the lives of all European citizens. The party in question did not take any illegal action, no unlawful action, was accused, no right was violated at all. On the contrary, all he did was express his ideals with respect for the human value and consciousness of the nations. It was therefore forbidden to finance it as only a means of pressure in order to stop its influence on the European nations. And yet, in this case, no party, no party coalition, at national and European level, protested and no political reaction took place, because it was simply working for everyone else. And today's debate is taking place in the light of the new elements of the political agreement with the troika, with the institutions, with the lenders, with these pimps as you told them beforehand. And we see in another article below - and we must stress this, because we risk driving and driving into a fourth memorandum, on the substance of what you have agreed at political level is a fourth memorandum - to baptise the European Development and Reconstruction Bank as an investor. For those who do not know - because it is good for the European Development and Reconstruction Bank to be pleased - that bank has so far financed projects in third or fourth world countries, in sub-Saharan Africa, in some forgotten countries in Asia and elsewhere. Now, for the first time, he will also deal with a country within the European Union. This means that the bank has either upgraded and dealt with other European-level countries or that Greece now ranks in the sub-Saharan sub-Saharan sub-Saharan sub-Saharan countries. And the second is probably the case, because everyone who deals with our homeland's finances is belling us and saying that our homeland is getting poor at a rapid, rapid rate. And what happened, SYRIZA's comrades? Comrade Maduro now uses Greece as an example of the worse situation than Venezuela. The circulating sound is very interesting. You can hear it from everyone you know in Spanish. Those of you who don't know can ask your fellow rebels, who have been going around the world, Nicaragua, Venezuela and elsewhere for decades, to see what the raw reality is. And I will say some evidence that confirms the tragic situation in this situation. According to a study prepared by this bank, 92% of the Greeks state that they have been affected by the debt crisis, while 76% of the households have seen a reduction in their income due to their corresponding reduction in wages and pensions, their loss of employment, delays or suspension of their remuneration or less working hours. Almost 44% of Greek households saw their salaries and pensions falling during 2010-2016. Also, more than 51% of Greek households were forced to reduce consumption even in basic species, such as food, medicines, as a steward of the crisis. Compared to the homes of Eastern Europe, Greeks had to resort to a reduction in consumption of the necessary, unnecessarily and services to a greater degree, as they are pointed out. Consider that only 24% of Greeks are satisfied with their life as a whole, when even in post-communist countries this figure is 48%. That's what the study of the bank you bring here as a Savior. Of course, from the moment that this study is being prepared to date, the figures have changed to the most difficult, to the worst. We shall be referring quickly to the articles, because there are so many articles and amendments. The substance is four bills different from each other and should have come as four and not as one. So we're going to make a quick list of the articles. In the first twelve articles concerning the European Union, the European parties, we are clearly 'in' for the reasons we have said, for the reasons why all of Europe now sees that all of this is of no importance because the European Union, once again, will collapse as a paper tower much faster than everyone you serve faithfully. In Article 13, which has to do with the National Intelligence Office, we declare'residents'. In Article 14, we declare'representations'. In Article 15, we declare'representations'. In Article 16, on the clearance of regional expenditure, we are 'against', because the law defines different things and you will have legal issues in the near future. In Article 17, which is dealing with the issues of the Directorate of Citizenship, we clearly state 'in anticipation'. You have made citizenship elastic, you have humiliated every concept of the performance of Greek citizenship, which is sacred. We hope that in the near future we will re-establish it sacred and correct all these anomalies that you have subsequently imposed on the Greek nation. In Article 18, which deals with committees for resolving tax disputes, we state 'in anticipation'. In Article 19, which has to do with property arrangements for the demolished Municipal Police Schools, we declare "residents", because there are some issues that you could settle and some problems that you might find in front of you. In Article 20, an interpretative provision states 'the present'. In Article 21 we declare 'the present'. In Article 22 we declare 'indicate'. In Article 23, for the Central Council of Architecture of the former Ministry of Macedonia and Thrace, and only that the Ministry in question is former and is not currently a Ministry in such a difficult area of Greece, which has to do with the issues of Macedonia - Thrace, we are referred to as "against". On the one hand, we are dealing with Turkishs who are suffocating the Greek Muslim minority in Thrace, and on the other hand, you are deaf and do nothing on the substance, and on the other hand, we have gypsies who, while being smashed on the one hand, are trying to impose the name "Macedonia" on the international level. And you, instead of having a Ministry, and not only a Ministry, have abolished it and with a few other articles now you are trying to correct the bad texts. In Article 24, we are 'against' for the same reasons. In Article 25 on the settlement of public service and building cleaning costs, we will state'residents'. We have heard the rapporteur from the New Democracy talk about cleaners with a rather contemptuous speech. There are cleaners and cleaners. They are cleaners, which were paid with huge sums and we have seen how they could be produced in general and at political level, but there are also cleaners who do not receive a minimum amount of money. This article is mostly about it, and that is why we say'residents' in this article, that we agree, but there are other categories of public workers, which should also have a fate in the sun over others who are going through too well. In Article 26 we declare'representations'. It has to do with the ranking processes of former municipal police personnel who joined the Greek Police. Yes, it must be done, but it must pass through all the stages planned, so that the policemen of the Greek police, those who finish the Police School, who gave all-Hellenic examinations, got tired, squandered two years in schools, did what they did, some others assimilated to them without actually having conducted certain trainings. For Article 27, we declare'representations'. For Article 28, which is Greece's participation in this bank, we have commented on the issue and declared 'indicated'. In Article 29 we declare 'indicate'. In Article 30 we declare 'indicate'. In Article 31 we declare 'indicate'. In Article 32 we will comment on what is happening with the mortgages. There's a situation with some mortgages that are down working, they're headless, there's very serious issues. Yes, this problem must be corrected, but the way you correct it, it is aspirin and in the near future you will have serious problems. We will say 'at present', because we want to resolve these problems. There's another bill coming soon, where the mortgages will all join another agency together, and all this electronically will be done, but it's good to see and solve it in the near future. Yes, Immediately to resolve all of these issues, which are unpaid and those of the citizens who cannot do their jobs, but we repeat that in the near future you will have serious issues with loose ends that you have not taken care of. In Article 33 we declare'representations'. In Article 34, entitled ‘Amendment of Law 4412/2016 Public Works, Procurement and Services Conventions’, we declare ‘percentages’. Here we have a completely different overall approach to the issue. In Article 35, which is the authorizing provision of the 'Global Greek Language Day', we can say nothing but 'yes'. But here to make a comment: it is hypocritical to bring this article and at the same time to see what is going on at the Ministry of Education, in our schools and elsewhere, where you are trying in every way to break up the Greek language, religion and all that. And you come here and tell us that you want to declare a "Global Greek Day". In Article 36, we declare 'against' as well as Articles 37, 38, 39 and 40. In Article 39, which deals with mobility and transfer issues, we also stated in the bill that was a few weeks ago that, as you brought it, the transfers have absolutely no meaning, since the civil servant should be asked if he wants and if he can, etc., while the state should decide where to have civil servants, which services he needs or not, of course, should be a product of transaction, negotiation or anything else. So we disagree with the way you do this, because we see that there are too many people elsewhere and elsewhere there are none at all, and yet the problem continues to exist. In Articles 40 and 41 we declare 'indicate'. With regard to Articles 42, 43 and 44, which deal with issues of the Port House, we state "according" to Article 42, because you are trying to control crises and what is being done more generally in the Port House, instead of creating an imprecise system. In Article 43 we declare 'indicate'. It's a photographic article. Article 44 on the ranking of parties, which is also a photographic article, states 'indicates'. In Article 45, entitled "Accelerating the implementation of the co-financed operations in the measures of the Agricultural Development Programme 2010-2020", we say "residents", because we want growth in the agricultural sector, but the measures, which you have voted for memento memento memoranda, in the medium term, your decisions, the increase in taxation, the increase in fuel, the increase in VAT, the increase in agricultural medicines, the increase in everything, rather people are struggling towards a host state. In Article 46 we declare 'indicate'. In Article 47, which deals with matters of responsibility of the Ministry of National Defence, we state "against" because it is also our permanent position to use the property of the Armed Forces. In Article 48, which concerns the repayment of the municipality's obligations by final judgments and orders, we declare'residents'. And we say'residents', because here we see that it does not include all, it is a card, it will decide which ones to be paid and which ones should not be paid. In Article 49, 'Enterprise of validity', we declare 'in anticipation'. As far as the amendments are concerned, we can see here that you are constantly bringing amendments, which could very well, like some articles, get into bills, which will come, but which are in consultation, but which are very briefly. In Amendment No 930/9, which was incorporated into Rule 47, we declare that we are 'in favour' for the same reasons that we have said before. In Amendment No 931/10, which deals with the Proceedings Review Authority, we declare that it is 'negative'. In Amendment No 932/11, a regulation on issues relating to the functioning of the financial stability fund's management bodies and the selection committee of its members, we declare that 'percentage' is a matter for the institutions of the Financial Stability Fund. As soon as yesterday we heard the fees they will get - hundreds of thousands of euros - all of them to borrow the Greek people and through the Financial Stability Fund to give the money to the many bankrupt banks to squeeze our fingers and tell us that we should put POS. We have given tens of billions of euros and at the moment the Greek banks are selling POS and nothing else. We're talking about humiliating her all her majesty. Amendment No 935/14 is for compensation to the natural and legal persons of the municipality of the municipality of Lesvos for the damage suffered by them by acts of refugees or immigrants. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in two minutes. The damage to be paid by the solidarityrs, their voters, their NGOs and all those who sent them there, and while we know - why most of them were arrested, in criminal acts - that the Greek people are still being punished and paid again. Whoever cheers them up, pays him. In Amendment No 936/15, which deals with a regulation on the payment of the obligations of the municipalities of final judicial decisions and payment orders, we say'residents' because this is not clear here. 939/18 is a photographic process, and clearly we declare 'indicated'. I would like here to make a very small comment on 939/18, according to which it is compulsory to recruit public, Otta, legal entities governed by public law, etc. By its first question, the national court seeks essentially to ascertain whether the national court has failed to fulfil its obligations under the Treaty and whether or not the national court has failed to fulfil its obligations under the Treaty and has failed to fulfil its obligations under the Treaty and has failed to fulfil its obligations under the Treaty. First, you're building a party army. Secondly, whether you have formal qualifications or not you are hired - violation of any concept of merit. Thirdly, you make a selective choice in which court rulings must be applied and which do not apply. For decisions judged by the retrospective reductions in wages and pensions, there is nothing to say about it. That is why we are being referred to as 'against'. For Amendment No 941/20, which is from the Ministry of Health, first of all, there is a bill. Second, the Department of Health does everything it does to him. We see that. They don't answer questions from the Members of the Golden Dawn because he says we're accountable, we're Nazis, we're everything else, I don't know what. Let them look at the mess of the Ministry of Health and the hospitals over the years, not only in the last two years, and then we can all be shaken by those who nurse in this ministry. In conclusion, I would like to say to New Democracy, which is very happy to come here many times, that the hanged man's house is not talking about rope. You've been ruling for a couple of years with PASOK. You charged the Greek people with hundreds of billions of euros. Your party first and best owes 240 million euros and of course you will never repay them. And you're coming now and doing economic lessons for us? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. You take us home economy or state economy lessons, or any other economy, and you talk to us about morality, when your party's own president had taken him down by hand in honey - 130,000 euros, I think it was something with SIEMENS - and then with some invoices you were trying to justify unnecessarily. They take him again with the hand in the honey with Kyrkyka Chania and hundreds of thousands of euros of sea-loving unpaid. It's never been anybody's concern. And when all of this was made public, you set it up. Of course, on the basis of this arrangement you have made, all the Greeks who have smaller loans, some waffles of the day, are also asked to make a similar arrangement so that they can repay them. The global changes that come with a climax of what is happening in America change around the world. You guys haven't gotten a load of what's going on around you. These changes come and as long as they are delayed they will come to Greece as well. Then you'll all be judged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, too. Mr Gregorakos, a special speaker of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u108	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to a point of order. I believe that this bill is being circumvented by Parliament's Rules of Procedure and that it is being observed by the Bureau of Parliament and by the Conference of Presidents. I think the President will be watching us right now. It's a bill that's the object of eight ministries. We have also seen this in committee. I told the Minister. Of course, the Minister gave an explanation of his, which did not cover me. I'm going to tell that explanation, too. I would like to say that it is not possible, Mr President, for a bill to come, for eight ministries and for the ministers to take the floor when we, as rapporteurs of the parties, only have the right to speak once. So we will again face a bill, which I believe is being circumvented by Parliament's Rules of Procedure and by the Constitution. We will see, in other words, Members speaking here today and we will have eight ministers reporting to their ministry. I think that this 'innovation', as Mr Skourletis said in committee, does not find us in agreement and I would ask you, please, to pass it on to the Conference of Presidents. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is part of a well-known and expected political game. What's the game? We're salivating everything. But the point is that there does not seem to be any pure intentions behind this salariation. We have now seen it with so many amendments tabled in this bill, as if there would be no other bills, as if the Ministries had no other bills, so that you could give us a chance to look at them in depth, discuss and take a position. But what seems after two whole years of governance SYRIZA - ANEL is that this system has failed to convince society or the political system that it is true in governmental intentions to reorganise and dismantle the public sector, when we have daily and tangible intentions and moves, such as today's with this whole bill, and efforts by the ministers to cherish the state. But there wasn't a single article that doesn't have a secret device in it that puts us on suspicion that something's behind it. The state, of course, you want to halve it. You're trying to do this, and you've got plenty of nepotism, as we've seen and been watching the last time. Today, on the other hand, a bill by the Ministry of Interior is an example of certain political behaviour. Ladies and gentlemen, those who believe and say that, with the completion of the evaluation, a new era has come to an end in Greece, they are mocking themselves and others. The dimensions of the informal agreement reached earlier allow misinterpretation and political exploitation. But beyond that, there is an area that remains clearly delayed and forgotten, and this sector is no more than public administration and local government. None of you, unfortunately, wants to admit that only with the improvement of the public sector and public administration can we be definitively and irrevocably driven out of the tunnel. But what am I talking about now? First the soul comes out and then the hooey. That's what they say in my village. So you brought a bill of "gull" eight ministries, a slogan, sliding tracks, without a trace of the synthetic and photographic provisions, which serve both sides. The amendments will be put to the vote on Tuesday. Today we are talking at the outset, and at the outset it will be my speech. So, with all these heroics against austerity and faint triumph of supposed success in Eurogroup, they are words that run counter to your actions, because you are the ones who imposed austerity by overtaxing the middle class. You're the one who's converted insurance contributions into ruthless taxes. It's your government that undermines privatisation so that they don't move forward. Check out Greek. Your moves and actions create the negative climate of attracting investment that would give jobs to thousands of people. Seventy-five thousand would be - says - the Greek, working in Greek. It is your co-government that is responsible for ensuring that the public administration is not rationalized, while loading it with more employees. Below in my speech I'll be more specific. At the same time, you too are incapable of absorbing the funds of the European Union, as is the case in immigration. In short, in other words, your government, you are the last ones who can speak and be entitled to appear against austerity when you do not fight austerity. Ladies and gentlemen, for two years now, a long story has been written, except that the pages of this story have been dark and the print on it is filthy. Your actions and actions leave indelible signs in the country, society and the citizens. The wounds you have caused the economy lead to large social groups in poverty. Every day we see it. The blows that have been suffered by the middle class because of your influential policies are irreparable. She's been exterminated. There is no middle class in Greece. The market has been completely devastated. Production, economic and commercial activities have been drastically reduced. The unemployed are constantly growing. Thirty thousand young unemployed have only been added in a month. These are elements of 'ERGANIS'. You embody the extreme austerity, even overcoming the extremist neoliberals, with whom you imagine you fight every day.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u109	You brought this. What are you yelling at?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u110	You turned Greece into a laughter. Former friends of yours, former allies with the first and best of the PODEMOS, do all they can to remove from the eyes of the European public the previous relationships they had with you. The worst part of all is that you play with the fate of the Greek people, with the needs, as children play with their buckets. Train proof of what happened Monday at the Eurogroup. Understanding the "shipwreck" you have suffered, you have rushed to change reality. You have proved yourself champions in the inauguration of the so-called 'before-truth'. You've taken a doctorate to lie. You have convinced the Greek society. Your hugging with power has not only mitigated your political, social and class reflexes, but fully leveled them. The mutation you have suffered has made all unidentified. You who would sketch the memorials signed the most horrific memorial. You have declared to all tons that the prerogative of measures is contrary to the Constitution of the country, to the Constitutional Treaty of the European Union and to the European acquis, you have accepted it with the rest of the world. You who declared the debt cut, which then became a debt restructuring, now you are making it a gargoy. You who sworn to protect the weak, to support the low-pension workers, to raise the minimum wage, even talking specifically about EUR 751 a month, to establish the tenth pension, to guarantee the CSCE, within two years not only have you forgotten it, but you have done exactly the opposite: you have broken up everything. You who flagged your famous political negotiation not only have forgotten it, but you have reached the point of begging for the return of the troika next week to Greece. The most strange thing, however, is that you brought the country on the verge of June 2015. You drove her one leg out of the Eurozone. You have been saved, because then you have been willing to take care of them, which we are, of course, proud to do. But your suffering didn't become a lesson. Within ten months from that time, you have led the country back to the border of the European Union. Instead of recovering and getting serious, you are getting deeper and deeper into the insufficiency of power and its delirium. Your reaction is not only explained in political terms. Other sciences need to explain that. A revelation example is that after Monday's Eurogroup you must tell us what happened. It describes it today, of course, as a worthy journalist, Michael Mitsos, in today's "NEA". I read to you: "The institutions have found them. The debt haircut no longer plays. The evaluation remains open. The IMF is staying in the program, the prerogative because of you has become Greece's paradoxical acquisition. We are privileged for 2019’. Really, what else can a left government do? What else do you expect? What else won't you do? Don't you realize you've lost your soul? I understand your weakness, ladies and gentlemen, to be reconciled with reality. I understand that what you had proclaimed, what you had told, is a dead end. You are ostriching and acting like Mr. Tsakalotos. Three days after the Eurogroup, the Minister of Finance has not appeared anywhere! Unfortunately for the country, you are not just confined to them, but there are consequences for society as well. Do something worse: Do you believe that only with the state, especially in this bill, which smells like a state, will you salvage what you can, following extreme party customer practices. In the many lies you have told, it was the top of the resolution of the public sector. And what you didn't promise! Let me remind you of them and see what today's bill does: Upgrade and reorganise public administration, the state's colonisation, a definitive end to the armies of post-emergency officials, decongestion of the public sector by the advisors' armies. Ladies and gentlemen, what have you done exactly from this? Nothing! Instead, you continued to implement the most extreme manipulation policies, even expropriation of public administration. With your look at the formation and maintenance of your electoral clientele, you have done exactly the opposite: the partisanization took it off. Postgraduate employees are flooding public administration. Counsellors and ministerial associates are already forming a remarkable army that wants the state to be plundered. Because I want to be specific, I'm telling you: First point: Public administration wage costs over a year increased by 16.2%, while private sector wage costs at the same time, according to the most moderate surveys, have fallen by 19%. Secondly, you have doubled the number of special and general letters. You found seventy general secretaries throughout the public administration and within two years you made them a hundred forty. Third point: the posted officials you have appointed, according to accurate data, have exceeded four thousand. If all of this is in line with your previous commitments and statements, I can only say that I really raise my hands up. Because you have expressed a version of the Left which I have always respected and appreciated, I would like to tell you that you have not caused only damage to the place. You have also scattered an entire area that had its own values, its own sensitivities and its own projects. I do not want to believe that what a truly great poet of the refreshing Left said, Manolis Anagnostakis: "It was not his fault, so he was." We are therefore opposed, ladies and gentlemen, to this bill, which, of course, has some positive points in relation to the European parties and some other articles that solve problems of everyday life. We cannot vote for this bill. We will vote against it in principle and vote on a few articles next Tuesday which will be discussed together with the amendments, because we believe that this bill has no end or even a start. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr. Gregoraco. Ms Manolakou, a special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u112	I cannot give in to the temptation to comment on normalisation, as the majority representative, who took place in the recent Eurogroup, said. But what is normalization? Is the government's willingness to legislate on the new greater "slap" in tax-free, pensions, labour for the majority of the people, in order to support the capital through new tax exemptions and reductions in their insurance contributions, which you rank into the development measures? Finally, the people do well, and when they hear about your red lines, they know they're not red, but dangerous. But would you also be criticised by those who took the third memorandum together? Hey, it's too much! Hypocrisy and mocking have crossed every limit. And come to the bill. He's got two places. One is a single one, this is the European Union's new reactionary regulation on the Eurogroup. The other is broken up from at least fourteen different ministries. A hammer! You have not spoken of the Rules of Procedure. We will, however, talk to those who have the patience to watch who is serving. Truly, why are the Eurogroups being pushed forward and not voluntarily allowed to be created if they want and have a statute and function for those who want and not to have what is imposed by the European Union regulation? But because the urban system doesn't want that. On the other hand, as long as the doubts of the European Union are growing, despite the fact that the people's struggles are behind needs, they are concerned, they are concerned, they are struggling to shield their exploitation system and at the same time to manipulate popular consciences, to incorporate resistance, intensify repression. Indeed, it is essential that the European parties respect the principles of the European Union in their programme and, in their action, respect the principles of the European Union. That is why they submit for approval, in addition to their programme and statute, to check that each internal party function rule complies with the European Union standards. Each year they shall be checked for whether they comply with its terms and may at any time be deleted from the register. They are almost exclusively financed by the Euro-Union budget and are obliged to submit a list of names. In other words, they are obliged to accept the reactionary and anti-grassroots structure of the European Union, respect for the dictatorship of the European monopolies, the Europolic, the Euro-elections, the Euro-strategic, partial and temporary employment, the hard anti-grassroots measures, the memoranda, the laws of state terrorism, EMU, workers with increasingly fewer rights and individual freedoms, so as to ensure the profits of capital. European parties are seeking to strengthen the European Union as an imperialist centre, with the political action of these parties and within each Member State. She is under pressure from the national political parties for a deeper integration of her anti-popular policy. However, it also applies to those parties that question the power of capital. Mostly they try to fade the voice and intervention of the Communists, who reveal capitalist barbarism and call on its overthrow. But the control of the parties' accounts and the disclosure of contributions are dangerous, since in the name of so-called transparency they interfere with the internal functioning of the parties, while the policing of political action is increasing. At the same time, it legalises and institutionalises the trade in parties and Members with the great interests and business groups, in the so-called transparency. That is to say, officially, what is being done: financing parties from businesses, introducing and taxing these amounts. In this way, it seeks to legitimise something condemned to the people's conscience, namely trade in parties with great interests. This will familiarize the people with such practices. The hypocrisy to deal with the interlocutory, which will continue to exist - clearly or secretly - because it is inherent to the functioning of the urban system, is also demonstrated by the fact that although the JRC has repeatedly called for the denomination of public shares and securities, you reject it. And yet it could seem to be where wealth is concentrated. But that, of course, scares you, because you tax them. In short, the strengthening of the role of Eurogroups and their capacity to manipulate and integrate workers - folk masses, particularly in the conditions of a deep capitalist crisis and the barbaric war that has unleashed the capital against the working class and the populace - makes it easier for them. That is why the reactionary features are even stronger. We do not recognise the competence of the European Union to impose parties with regulations and binding compulsory decisions which recognise it as a one-way street and serve its strategic objectives and its wildly anti-popular policy. On the other hand, the European Union is trying to wipe out the voice of the political forces that have anti-imperialist - anti-capitalist character and are fighting the European Union. And here, if you wish, is its hypocrisy, although in the countries of Eastern Europe and, above all, in the Baltic countries, the communist parties are brutally persecuted. This is all about silence from the so-called democratic European Union. Of course you too, all the political parties that are inclined to the European Union are supporting the compulsory creation of European political parties at national and European level. That is why you are silent and you said nothing but a dry 'I agree' because the Eurogroups are serving the objectives of the monopolies and you are their parties. As far as the other articles are concerned, the question arises as follows: Are they improving the lives of the people? Under no circumstances, since most are management of the urban state, which serves the needs of capital and oppresses and terrorizes the people. What's more interesting? The question of the costs of cleaning public services and buildings, because it concerns workers in cleaning. It is Article 25 that we are voting on, but it is incomplete and that is why we have tabled amendments. The article comes to solve the question of their payment to contractors, which they have certainly reclaimed and have won. All these people have been through S.H.I.E.L.D. They have a right to permanent and stable work. But in some municipalities their struggle continues. Why? Because the law has not been implemented. I give for the minutes the press release of the Corinth Municipality contract committee. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Diamanto Manolakou, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned press release, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It concerns those who have completed twenty-four months and have not allowed the various Commissioners to be paid. They are four municipalities, Cassandra, Corinth, Aegean, Eastern Mani, as well as FOSDA of western Macedonia. They do not apply Article 16 of Law 4429, namely, the self-evident extension of contracts to workers in cleaning and leave them to rest. We have therefore tabled an amendment and we propose a special provision derogating from each other, considering that it is important to implement it. Consequently, the acts and decisions resulting from the application of the above law to those workers in those municipalities must be regarded as void, independently of legal proceedings. We ask for it to be accepted, so we will find a solution for these workers. However, there would be no problem if you accepted the JRC's amendment, which we tabled a month and a half ago, to transform the contracts into an indefinite one for everyone. Thus, this critical area of cleanliness would be sent to permanent staff. You know, by constantly changing staff, it does not accumulate experience with the years of work and this has led to an increase in accidents at work. I've been giving for the Practical List of Accidents at Work in these areas in recent years. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Diamanto Manolaku, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of Parliament.]] At the same time, we are once again tabling the amendment concerning the conversion of contracts into contracts of indefinite duration and this is in order to continue the operation of cleaning services. It is necessary not only to extend the duration of the extension until 2017, but, with the expiry of the extension, to make them self-evident in contracts of indefinite duration, in order to avoid privatization of the cleanliness sector and we believe that it will be the final solution. We have tabled another amendment concerning the safeguarding of jobs for disabled people working in municipal and municipal enterprises, who have been recruited through programmes of new jobs for vulnerable OAS social groups. The main objective of the programmes is the integration of disabled people into the labour market and their stay in the labour market, and even after the end of the employer's subsidy. In particular, in order to protect the work of disabled persons, a provision has been laid down in Law No 3227/2004, which stipulates that if the employer wishes to keep the worker at work after the grant has expired, the worker in question falls under the protection of Law No 2643/1998. That is what we call it, and we ask for it to be accepted, so that unemployment among disabled people is reduced, because today it is more than 90%. As far as project and improvement organisations and projects are concerned, you are transferring control over TWG surveillance to the regions, when the 'CALICRATES' has been abolished. But this is how the guidelines of the European Union Directive 2000 on water are, in the most raw way, an even more expensive commodity for the few of Europe, rather than being treated as a good for nature in human service. The aim is to concentrate water management on less hands by merged TWGs and, of course, to control and recruit seasonal workers. At the same time, the pricing of irrigation water with new raisins for farmers - you are already described in the explanatory statement - will be promoted by providing for the collection of 2.5% by the bodies responsible for their collection. At the same time, you are exempting big business from the environmental charges and the green energy fund. You are also broadening the tax-supporting role of the regions and it is well known that the depreciation and abolition of land improvements has started in 1992 on Father Mitsotakis when they belonged to the prefectures. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] That's right. This wild policy for capital is all the time. That is why all the previous governments, as well as the current one, have weakened and weakened with their policies the public services and services of the wider public sector by employees and economic resources, in the lesser-state logic. That's what the memorials you voted for say, that's what you do. Today you're coming more officially with an article in this bill. I say this because there has been a ministerial decision that goes to these regions, which has no staff and, if you like, that is why the regional authorities are also reacting. The aim, of course, is evidently further redemption and at a very next stage, the privatization of this service as well. We are voting against the article. We're asking to retire. Upgrade services can only be reconstituted and offered if they are staffed with the necessary staff and equipped with modern means, as requested by the associations and the federation of workers in the regions. And above all, we say no to the carving you are preparing for farmers. Water must be a public good for the many and not a merchandise for the few. We are therefore voting against the bill in principle.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u113	Thank you. Mr Katsikis, a special speaker of the ANELs, has been given the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, because from the outset we have seen this bill or the bill, if you will, positively, continue to deepen it, as we did in the committees, starting with general points on the chapters which constitute it, six as a whole and forty-nine articles. Chapter I lays down measures for the implementation of Regulation 1141/2014 of the European Union on the establishment and functioning of European political parties and European political foundations. In the context of the previous regulation concerning European political parties and their related political foundations, issues that had an organisational and operational response have arisen - and that is what is happening here today - which, in conjunction with European integration policies, have shown the need to amend their rules of operation. The innovation of the new regulation is the acquisition of legal personality by European political parties and the recognition of judicial capacity in them. By acquiring legal personality in their working regime, European parties can now have central administration and be active in the Member States, which of course have to adopt national measures to implement the regulation more effectively. European practice shows that European political parties play a crucial role in expressing the voice of citizens at European level. They are also mitigating the contradictions that arise in the implementation of national and European policies. Greece is not affected by the establishment and operation of the political parties under Article 29 of the Constitution. Chapter II provides for measures to speed up the government's work in respect of the powers of the Ministry of the Interior. Arrangements concerning the functioning of the National Intelligence Service shall be introduced for the defence of its employees by officials of the Legal Council of the State who are prosecuted in the performance of their duties. In this way, the officials of the National Intelligence Service shall be treated as other civil servants, who may apply similar provisions. Article 14 of the relevant draft law seeks to address issues that have arisen in the functioning of the Internal Affairs Service in order to ensure the smooth continuation of their mission. Essentially, the selection criteria of both its commander and the other staff are stricter, with a view to consolidating the sovereignty and safeguarding the prestige of the service. The term of office of officials in the Internal Affairs Service since the four years and the possibility of renewal for three additional years is reduced to three, with an extension of up to three times for one year at a time, and the possibility of transferring to services in their place of interests after the end of their term of office is abolished, even if there was no vacant organic position. In this way, the nature of the service is protected against the risk of being used as a head office for the personal benefits of the servants. The possibility of transferring undoubted newly-explored lieutenants and police officers is abolished and the six-year pre-service is required from school. The procedure for selecting the Director of the Internal Affairs Directorate is also amended as a precondition for defining the proposal by the Hellenic Police Supreme Court, and for the first time a two-year term is introduced. At the same time, the arrangements relating to the transfer - withdrawal of the commander, which can be carried out either at his request or at the decision of the relevant Minister are regulated. A provision is also laid down for the settlement of expenditure by individual contracts and the cleaning up of public services buildings, which are considered legal and which are cleared to the detriment of the appropriations for the budgets of the relevant bodies. That provision ensures a smooth and smooth flow in the payment of expenditure arising from individual contracts for cleaning in individual public services, since it is clear that the contracts in question are concluded by way of derogation from any other special or general provision, serve imperative needs and are, of course, for the benefit of the public. It defines the procedure and the conditions for ranking the former staff of the Municipal Police, who had joined the Greek Police. The above rules allow these officials to choose to join the staff of their desire, i.e. either as special guards or as permanent civilian personnel of the police. This solves the question of classifying them into the already existing staff categories of the Greek Police and hence their evolution. The service is supported by new staff, which will help to protect the security of citizens. Chapter C relates to provisions for the responsibility of the Ministry of Economy and Development. Greece's participation in the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development Specific Technical Cooperation Fund is hereby approved. The participation of our country will serve to finance technical assistance projects financed by the European Bank in Greece and for as long as this is a receiving country. Chapter IV deals with issues relating to the responsibilities of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, the Civil Aviation Authority and the Civil Aviation Service and with the resources and sources of revenue for these services. It is also covered by the existing legal vacuum in dispute regarding the scope of the competences and rights of the Athens Urban Transport Organisation within stations and the assets belonging to the ‘ATTITRO’, according to which the Athens Urban Transport Agency may conclude contracts with the ‘ATTITER’ on the concession of the operation of the stations and other assets of that company relating to the management, promotion, control and execution of the transport operation in accordance with the applicable provisions. With Chapter V, which deals with provisions on the competence of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, issues are regulated for the conversion of special unpaid mortgages into lump sums and cases where this becomes necessary. The gradual transformation of the unpaid mortgages into paid mortgages will work, we believe, for the benefit of the service of all citizens and the guarantee of existing jobs. Finally, in the last chapter, Chapter F, amendments are proposed to the Single System of Mobility for Public Workers, concerning services in border areas and aiming at their smooth operation. Furthermore, Article 31 of Law 4270/2014 provides that preventive control by the Court of Auditors is to be abolished. That is how we believe - and we want to see it in the process - that we ensure that the clearance and payment of expenditure is quickly completed and, at the same time, that dues are avoided. It is also foreseen that senior officers, other than the Chief of the Hellenic Coast Guard, to which more specific provisions apply annually, are judged in the regular crises, irrespective of the completion of the requirements to promote general formal qualifications in the year of crises. In this way, equal treatment is achieved with the respective officers of the Armed Forces. Finally, I refer to both amendments tabled, accepted by the Minister and incorporated into the bill with Articles 47 and 48. In particular, Article 47 provides for a settlement of issues of the Ministry of National Defence, an amendment is to be made to the deadline for fulfilling the obligation to provide a guarantee of participation by interested parties in the course of the open electronic auctions conducted by the Armed Forces Realisation Agency for the properties it selects for recovery. It is also laid down that those members of the Armed Forces who complete the period laid down by Law.3883/2010, are deemed to be promoted to the next with the types of crises of the previous career law, Law 2439/1996, if they are deemed to be promoted to the same extent in regular or extraordinary crises. This arrangement ensures the objective and fair judgement of officers, taking into account the difficulties created by the simultaneous application of two different laws, which regulate the same subject in a different manner. Article 48 provides for the grant of municipalities to pay out their unpaid liabilities to private individuals in the resolution account of the Local Government bodies in order to pay back, in the performance of final judicial decisions, their unpaid liabilities to the local government. This prevents the risk of suspending the critical functions of the municipalities to their citizens due to overturning their financial planning. In conclusion, I would like to say that the Independent Greeks are voting in favour of this bill, because it works for the benefit of the public administration and by covering legislative gaps in years contributes to its smoothest functioning. At the same time, it ensures the maximum possible use of public operators with transparency and objectivity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr. Katsiki. Mr Saridis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u116	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at the first joint meeting of committees, the Minister, Mr Skourletis, claimed that today's draft law is supposed to introduce an improved way of legislating. The quality of the arguments which he has chosen to present to a failed, in our view, attempts to defend his point of view in conjunction with the quantity of the amendments, which he has finally accepted, can easily lead someone to understand how great the lack of respect that government maintains with regard to every practice of good legislation is. For the most part, it achieves this either by noting the spirit of the constitutional legislator, which requires draft laws to be channelled by a single authority or by violating Parliament's Rules of Procedure which naturally does not give quantitative criteria to quality. According to the Minister, SYRIZA has improved and this, according to him, is always demonstrated by the fact that even half the articles in the bill come from the relevant Ministry, as is foreseen, as well as by the reduction in the number of amendments - deferred and unreported, as a rule - which it accepted. I ask you: is it convincing argument that half the articles are from the same Ministry? Is that what the Rules of Procedure say? Is that what the constitutional legislator meant? Is that how it goes? Quantitatives? Where is this written? Did you finally improve because you even got half the articles to have a cohesion between them? Is that an improvement? On the other hand, on your own, Mr Minister, you admitted that you preferred to bring the provisions of various ministries, which the government considered to be urgent and necessary in the form of autonomous funds within the bill rather than to bring them as simple amendments. I ask you, then, and I expect an answer from now on: because instead of the practice of the scattered amendments you have chosen in today's legislation the practice of scattering articles, we must suddenly discover a coherent principle among them. So, with your wisdom, do you think you have managed to create a common principle by zero? Irrespective of these were the issues of the amendments, no matter how much they were made up of the articles. In addition to the question of legislative cohesion, if we add today's normal delays, unspeakable amendments to those which you have been baptizing 'universal funds' from early on and incorporated into the draft bill, then we conclude that the number of amendments has not been reduced at all. And so, Minister, and your second argument ultimately fails to substantiate your assessment of how the government's way of legislating has improved because it has allegedly reduced the amendments. What you bring us, remains regardless of each other, no matter how you baptize them, and the delayed and unspeakable amendments remain - from your choice - the basic way of legislating today in Greece. Worst thing, though, isn't. The worst of your legislative initiatives is another and they come soon. I am referring to the laws that Minister Skourletis has asked us to remember, before we think of dare to talk about bad legislation on the part of Syriza. You asked us, Minister, to remember as examples of maladministration the two hundred and fifty articles of the six different ministries of L.4281, the hundred and twelve articles of the eight different ministries of L.4172, the four hundred pages of the six different ministries of L.4152. All these are the laws that have been passed by the previous ones and refer to these laws as an example to claim that on the one hand the previous ones have done worse and, therefore, they are not entitled to speak on the other hand, to convince us that you have improved your way of legislating. I really do. Have you not realised that no one compares you with the previous ones, but what Greek citizens expect from you, what you promised them? This tale of everyone here, of government and of counter-population, about what attitude did the people have, what attitude did they have, and how we legislated or how we reacted to the legislations, when will it finally stop? So, honestly, you think the Greeks don't see you? Don't they see the wrong things going on in here? Didn't they see the previous ones? How did the previous guys get there and they're not where you are now? Gentlemen of the Government, for the sake of all of us, for the good of Greece, I urge you to stop comparing yourself with the mess of post-multipleism and to begin to wonder at last whether you are satisfied with the hopes and expectations of the Greek people who are in here and sitting in these seats that you are sitting in. It does not help anyone to justify the unjustified, invoking the previous ones. And let it be that you, too, have to follow the same practices of legitimisation, which we all remember in how dramatically you complained about when you were there. You asked us, Minister, to remember one more law as an example, too bad legislation, nr.4254. He had an extra very bad feature, which you yourself called wickedness that undermines democratic citizenship. This law, n.4254, concerned 11 ministries and numbered a hundred pages, but it was introduced to vote in the form of a single article. You have commented, Minister, that in this way the government has sought to prevent Members from being differentiated into individual provisions. And there, at this very point, you have identified that element, which, as you admit, operates underminingly on democracy, the removal, that is, by Members of Parliament of the choice to choose to be differentiated. I hope, Mr Skourletis, that you also remember these laws, when you will soon be asked to vote on what you have agreed with the institutions in a single bill and perhaps in a single article, such as that of Law 4254. You see, you were saying that at the first meeting of the committee in Parliament, when the political agreement in Brussels was not yet closed, and I would remind you that we will find out when you bring it to us at some point in the vote. By then we will be informed by the non - papers of Maximus. Where's Mr. Chakalotos? Where's Mr. Juliarakis? When will they inform us here in this House as due for the agreed ones? What form, Minister, will the bill contain what you have agreed on the Greeks without the Greeks? Perhaps, so that the Members cannot be differentiated, will you also bring it as a single, single article? What would that mean, then, for the quality of the lawmaking of SYRIZA? The quality of a bill is judged by many things, Minister. The most important criterion, however, to consider it successful, is whether or not it solves the problems it is swallowed, whether it gives solutions and not the number of articles. Instead of ruining half of your time in committee in order to be able to talk about the lack of improvement in the legislative work of the government, it would be better for everyone to take advantage of the time given by the Rules of Procedure to answer all the questions put by Parliament, which you leave unanswered. We insist, Minister, because we want to be useful in democracy. You have not responded, for example, to Article 14, because you are giving three years of service to the officials of the Greek Police Home Office. You do not take into account your arguments either. On this basis, you are right to reduce the term of three years, but you are wrong to allow for another three. We are coming back to what was at the outset, with the consequence that you are compiling yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u117	It's not like that, partner.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u118	You are also not telling us why exactly we have led to the need to legislate on the extension of Article 15 for commitments. Have you examined how to avoid this need coming back to the future? You have also not explained to us - and you said you would - what exactly these costs are described in ambiguity in cases (d), (e) and (f) Article 16 and to what level they reach. However, you have avoided satisfying other questions, such as with just how many employees, based on the planning of the Ministry, will serve the Department of Citizenship. How many will you be extracting into the new bureaucratic structures of the new departments? What will be the cost of operating all this for the Greek taxpayer? What will this offer the Greek citizen? What is the cost and result relationship? On which criteria will this address be assessed? You have also not explained to us what led us to the need to clarify Article 20 on what applies to the end of the municipalities that operate casinos, nor have you told us where the environmental sensitivities of the first time left are, now that you ask us to vote in favour of Article 21 and thus to strengthen the practice of using old buses for municipal transport and let us know that within the explanatory statement they burn more, that they pollute more. In fact, because they are burning longer, you are asking us to exclude them from the maximum fuel consumption. To burn as much as they like, and to pollute as much as the taxpayers can pay. Except the taxpayers don't pay as much as they want, they pay what you ask them. I would really like to hear the opinion of the economists, who support the Government for Article 21, as to whether this is a direct or non-polluterary enhancement of polluting policy. Ladies and gentlemen, in search of the single principle of this bill, one has to identify another common feature among its provisions. And this feature is just as all the rough legislations are presented. The characteristic inside is the strip and division. Bad legislation means that one day two people claiming opposite things, they'll both think they have the law on their side. Every failure of the laws creates disputes and affects social cohesion. Articles 25 and 26 prove my words. Who's to blame for cleaning workers being hostage? Who's the fault of running in the courts? Who's to blame for not knowing what dawns them? The answer is simple, ladies and gentlemen: the lack of political will expressed through bad laws. In Article 25, as in any provision you bring about in this regard, you choose to maintain a blurred situation and justify inability to recruit, hiding behind 4 to 1 and the need to allegedly prioritise the recruitment of nurses and teachers. Sow the discord between the citizens. The nurses have already sent them to the courts to eat each other because you have not clarified your intentions and have not made your obligation to assess them, as you had to, by the law that you voted on for a year and it is inappropriate so far. By forcefully introducing union into the Armed Forces, you led our officials to fight each other and to exchange lawsuits. With the smuggling of fire extinguishers and police officers, you've created explosive dimensions in the Security Corps. Bad legacy creates prey and sows discord, but you do what you don't see. Ladies and gentlemen, the Centro Association agrees and will support the first chapter on European parties. Unfortunately, however, we have to vote against this bill in principle because of the bad way of legislating. Our parliamentary representative will also be present when the time comes for matters to which we have not been able to address ourselves for lack of time. As far as the amendments are concerned, I shall be placed in my dentistry. The country is devastated by its young people. Thousands of young people are leaving and looking for their luck abroad, and that is not good for the country. It is perhaps the best time to ask yourself, and what would be the best you could do for the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u119	We move on to the last special speaker, Mr. Dannelly from the river. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the return of creditors' representatives is certainly a positive development, because the worst is avoided. As far as we're concerned, we're applauding the slightest. The sense of uncertainty works solublely for the economy and society, and it is the worst thing that can happen to us today, because we refuse to realize that June 2018, where the umbrella of the support programme closes, is just tomorrow. Although the cost of any agreement will be heavy for Greece anyway, we did not stop at any time pointing out that the worse things later. The more we increase our unreliability by blocking the implementation of what we have committed and agreed, such as the constant stumbling blocks in the privatizations, for example, so much will strengthen the extreme voices of lenders. The joint message of Lagard - Merkel to the government yesterday is: “Make sure that what you have agreed is finally completed. The more you avoid the difficult ostrichs, the more they will appear gigantic tomorrow in front of you." Does this not be the case with the famous Katorugalou reform in insurance, where, before a barner, you speak three, it turns out to be unfair and unsustainable? In general hypocrisy, ladies and gentlemen, caution is needed. No triumphs, no catastrophes. A language of truth is needed and an effort is needed, at least for the major national issues, such as the country's exit from this fragile economy, but also the other threats that are now being giggled before us. You will see, of course, that since the morning the Cesme oceanography has flowed to the northern Aegean, escalating the challenges dangerously, but also the tension in our yard. Let's move on to the bill. Citizens expect the improvement of their everyday lives, and this, to a large extent, requires clear planning and seriousness in the legislative work, away from barbaric and vacant titles. Today, for example, we are discussing a draft law that says in its title that speeds up government work. In fact, however, we have again come up with a piece of legislation. We see many provisions, unnecessarily among them, which may be necessary and urgent for the proper functioning of the state machine, but the whole draft law reflects the intrinsic weakness of serious planning and planning of government work: mismatch between titles and contents, mismatch between theory and action, mismatch between desire and reality. The practice of the bad legislative choices, that is, the culminated regulations of many other ministries beyond the expedited ministry, the inability to complete planning, the resolution and the motion for a resolution of your own laws, the non-response from the point of view of the basic questions how, at how time and at what cost, unfortunately, it is present again. The provisions now or some of them. In Chapter I on the implementation of European Regulation 1141/2014 on European political parties and foundations, we are obviously positive, as are any incorporation of European legislation into Greek law. However, it should be pointed out that any provisions introduced concern only the terms 'political party' and 'European political party' and they do not refer to the 'national political party' as recognised by the Greek Constitution. All these regulations relate to a European level alone, while at national level it is now almost a year and a half pending now the establishment of a new institutional framework for the transparency and financing of parties. This is an pending situation in which we, Potami, have not even stopped talking about, in fact proposing a package of very specific measures, which is also an obligation for the country to the partners from its implementing Memorandum 4336/2015, as well as the Greco Group's recommendations on the question of the funding of the parties. What has prevented the government from incorporating similar provisions into this draft law for the Greek parties in order to have a full piece of legislation, when, in fact, a few weeks ago the House dealt with the outcome of the'since a triangle', failing once again to reach joint conclusions and joint proposals for the armoring of democracy and parliamentaryism? Chapter B relates to provisions of the Ministry of the Interior. In particular, Article 15 gives, for the most part, an extension of time limits to grade I and II and to legal persons subject to them for the refusal acts which should have taken place during the financial year 2015, as well as their suspension of the ‘GENERAL’ programme. We disagree. By simply greek, we cannot allow once again the circumvention of the "GENERAL" of this leading reform tool. We've been consenting to extensions over and over again. This time we say 'no', and if it is small municipalities whose administrative problems, if we understand, cannot be justified indefinitely. In the same chapter, with regard to Article 20 on the end of casinos, as an old self-government, I would remind you that the fees of contributors constituted a substantial resource - perhaps the most essential - for the municipalities - in particular tourists - and allowed them to meet the high requirements rather than the low centralized resources received. I would also remind you that the initial 5% of the fees was considered high and decreased to 2%, and then evaporated with the 2009 reduction down to 0.5% currently in force. Thus, return works and services, which have improved the daily lives of both residents, citizens and visitors, can no longer be supported. If we want to support the economic independence and therefore the administrative self-sufficiency of the municipalities, we must see, Mr Minister, the question - in a revised philosophy - of municipal revenues in order to stop them from burdening the public finances in any way, but also to be able and sufficient to support the various services and projects which they have to implement. Article 25 concerns the settlement of cleanliness of public services and buildings with particular emphasis on the cleanliness needs of local government bodies. Obviously there are several cases of deadlock, municipalities and workers. There must be a way of covering the legality of performance and debt and the continuity of the provision of services. But we must end this vicious circle and finally start a new virtuous cycle, a cycle where the real needs will be met in the legal way, whether we are talking about self-government or the general public. I understand that it is very difficult to specialise in these cases and separate the day from the wheat. However, the generalized approaches rather than exalting the situation, I think they are confusing it and creating a repetition of these phenomena. The time has come to adopt a completely different methodology to address all these issues, in order to clarify the terms and rules and where there are standing and constant needs to be covered in the legal way as stable and lasting needs. Article 26 relates to an old and painful story, this one night's cobbled-out of the Municipal Police by the government of Samaras at the time, where their municipalities and citizens, under the pretext of reducing the state, the reduction of civil servants, were deprived of valuable services. And, unfortunately, there is still this gap in meeting these needs for the municipalities, but also for the citizens. In any case, we consider that the former municipal police officers should join, but they receive appropriate training in the ranks of the ELAS. We continue with Chapter V, which deals with provisions on the competence of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights. I'm going to stand in Article 32, which deals with the mortgages. I would remind the House that the punctual task Force of the European Commission had then recommended to the Government that the mortgages be converted into premises, while calling for a drastic reduction in their number. However, as far as we know, the Ministry is concerned, there is a parallel and incomplete procedure for the livestock offices. We know that we also have an obligation, but it is also rational to have the coexistence of the real estate offices with the more miserable mortgages. So what about this parallel and incoherent development? In general, what do we achieve with today's forecasts in relation to what we have and commitment, but also schedules as rational to do, moving from the current institution of unpaid mortgages to their conversion into the mediated mortgages? I'm afraid not much. On the contrary, we are loading the mortgages with a body of photographic, almost non-reforming provisions. In addition, it is of particular importance that the withdrawal of this provision requires not only those directly concerned, i.e. the Association of Unpaid Wardens, but also the Association of Judges and Prosecutors, which stresses that it is unconstitutional to assign administrative staff to judges even low grades.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u121	Do you adopt this, Mr. Dannelly?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u122	Depends on what they're responsible for. However, it is not a matter for the peacemakers to deal with these issues. We also do not agree that it is being done in general. I think we will have a duty to recruit all the officials who are currently employed in the mortgages, whether or not they are necessary to continue to exist as an employee. That is why I think you should see these provisions beforehand to avoid the creation of new...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u123	I just asked you, Mr Dannelly, if you would agree with some objections of unconstitutionality. If your party agrees.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u124	Minister, it's not my case to adopt a constitutional opinion or not...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u125	I will answer you on that. Because you mentioned them, I ask you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u126	But when this view is expressed by judges, I think we should take care of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u127	We have an answer to give you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u128	However, it is not the job of the judges to be charged - even if they are judges - with such administrative tasks.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u129	Law has been in force since 1941, though. You should know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u130	All right, let's get this straight. So it's an opportunity to reconstruct all these things. I am standing in Article 36, which provides for the abolition of preventive control by the Court of Auditors. This is where we fully agree. It's a matter of principle. They needed regulation and delimitation of this process, because there are too many cases where the subjective crisis poses problems, particularly in local government decisions, where legality control is many times that it turns into feasibility control, and that results in some bureaucratic perceptions and responsibilities blocking too many public and self-government choices. However, I would point out that special attention is needed in our transition to the new reality of abolishing preventive control, where only the repressive control will be left, which must of course be maintained and tightened. In our transition, however, we should avoid the two extremes of possible involvement, whether immunity or incompetence, because of possible responsibilities for cash services. For Article 42, we consider it reasonable for the Pan-Hellenic Association of Officials of the Port Authority - whose memorandum I also present in the Minutes - that the crisis of the chiefs should not take place since the first year the officer will be to this extent, because it is both irrational and cost-effective. It is a waste of human resources, but also of economic resources, and I think that nowadays it is outrageous to waste such waste. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Spyridon Dannelis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned memorandum, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The two years, which have so far been defined as a period of stagnation at this level, are very few, anyway, for the current short-term situation of resources and limited opportunities both in the development of staff and in its retirement. And because it really needs to be assimilated to the rest of the House, the self-evident right is that the rest of the House should go through one year of stagnation to the point of two, because in the end we do not understand that today there can be armies of pensioners who are fifty or fifty-two years old. As for the parallel year, which was mentioned by the Minister responsible in the debate in committee, the current provisions exclude a significant number of officers. Although the draft laws which had been put forward for consultation on a Drachma Minister under Article 42(2) specifically included the generalisation of the provision on a parallel year, this draft was received. What prevents this provision from being added to Article 43? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall close, Mr President, in a minute. In conclusion, I would like to refer to Article 46 on the arrangements for works and land improvement agencies of the Ministry of Rural Development, which we are in agreement with. It should be noted, however, that the proposed provisions do not solve all the problems of the OEM, which will require additional arrangements in the near future, and that is why there should also be an integrated approach. Let me remind you here that the European Water Resources Management Directive is still pending, which will bring very great differentiation to all the existing ones. In principle, we are voting against the draft law. The articles I reserve to be put to the next sitting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u131	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and operated, thirty-seven students and students and three educational sessions from the 2nd High School of Neapolis Thessaloniki. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Minister for the Interior has the floor, Mr. Skourletis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u132	Mr President, is the Minister's speech or a few minutes' intervention?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u133	No, in the application of the Rules of Procedure, which I have before me and which says: 'In the debates on bills and drafts of law, the word shall be given first to the relevant ministers if they so request'. Mr. Skourlet. Mr. Skourlet. He even asked the rapporteurs to listen first and to speak. So he asked for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u134	Mr President, I request the floor on the Rules of Procedure in writing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u135	What did you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u136	A request has been made to the Chair, which I am asking for the floor on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u137	Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u138	Mr President, I am sorry, but the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, which you are giving, is not diffusive but completely distortive. And Article 95 and Article 64 are very clear. The Minister is entitled to the floor before the rapporteurs, if he so requests or after the first six speakers. It shall not be entitled in the intervening period unless it makes use of the general provision for a short period of two minutes. So the Minister does not have the floor, but the first six speakers. I would therefore ask you to respect the Rules of Procedure so that things can flow smoothly.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u139	Mr. Kegeroglu, there's no reason to disagree here. There's been a deal. He could have spoken before the rapporteurs. So since the Chair accepted the agreement, we cannot now remove the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u140	Did you make a deal despite the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u141	Yeah, that's what happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u142	I will withdraw the objection, Mr President, but the unanimous decision of Parliament that a specific time, as it has been taken, will be interrupted by the sitting, please, if you will. You are responsible for announcing it to the House. Why are you holding her?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u143	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u144	Here you go, Mr. Dendia.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u145	I do not want to make this point. Since the Minister chooses to speak, it does not exist for us. I would simply like to ask whether the current Minister for Finance, Mr Chakalotos, will be placed. Is that what you'll do next, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u146	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u147	I am sorry to address you, but I am addressing you with the Bureau and with his permission. There is a perception here, which has been notified to me, of the end of today's sitting at 16.00 and you understand that because of the days your position will probably need an answer or in any case a comment or questions. So, if you're kind enough to tell me when you'll be placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u148	I can speak with the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u149	The order is as follows. The Members will speak on the amendments, as the ministers usually do.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u150	Mr President, may I propose that Mr Chakalotos be placed immediately after the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u151	If you agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u152	You have to tell us whether the meeting will end at or not.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u153	This issue, as it had already been announced, was re-introduced to the Conference of Presidents by me - it will now begin - with the suggestion that all parties agree and that the Conference will decide.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u154	Will the Conference decide? Isn't this a decision?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u155	As the Conference had decided, I raised the matter at the Conference with rapporteurs from all the parties. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by putting forward some legislative improvements to Articles 15, 17, 23 and 25.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u157	I think one embarrassment succeeds the other: embarrassment in the last 24 hours on the basis of the last agreement and embarrassment and also by the presence of Mr Tsakalotou. In any case, I see an impossibility of having a coordinate policy, a stand against the last agreement. Mr Tsakalotou's presence makes it easier for me not to devote much of my intervention to these matters, but I just want to say something. It is much more persuasive to make a criticism of specific issues than simply to create noise. And I fear that this noise does not only concern your position on the last agreement. It concerns everything that is being tabled here as a bill or an amendment. You are the opposition to noise. Because you want to cover your own irresponsible attitude and your own non-disclosure of your positions towards the Greek people. Because the issues that have also been raised in the great picture - those relating to negotiation - are very specific. You haven't said anything about that. Mr Dendia, as I understand it, you want to speak immediately after you are informed, tell us what has been shared between Mrs Merkel and your party leader. Let us know.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u158	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u159	Mr. Chakalotos will make an update based on his own responsibility. Are you going to tell us?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u160	Everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u161	What did you say there, anyway? Do you feel that need or do you just want to create noise?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u162	As an emergency, Minister, no, but I will do it because you ask me to do so. In any case, I would like to say to Mr Gregorakos that he has devoted even more of his intervention on the occasion of today's bill to inform us, and I would like to say this to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u163	I'm in position, I'm not admonishing anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u164	Is it convincing to resign you - and when I say you, not personally, as a person who participated in the parliamentary majorities of the PASOK - New Democracy - and to tell us about an austerity fight? That's a joke. It is recorded in the first jokes of 2017.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u165	He has to say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u166	In any case, I understand the strategic need for the PASOK area, the Democratic Alliance, the national social democracy, to be redefined. However, take lessons from what is happening abroad today. Take lessons from the steps taken by the European Social Democracy, emancipation steps towards the neoliberal one-way. However, this procedure cannot be done only with words. To be convincing, you need to get rid of those political executives - weights, because otherwise credibility is not regained. In any case, I will not give up any more on what you have said, and I will not go on with these general references. I want to refer to the draft legislation and the debate that we have done so far. From the beginning you chose to make a general review of how to legislate. I do not claim that all the issues relating to how to legislate in the Greek Parliament have been resolved at this time. Nor, of course, is what you did. And what I mentioned to you last time, one article, one law, etc., which had their own feasibility in order not to differentiate the majority then, I am not saying them to justify our own weaknesses. I cannot, however, compare that here, in good time, there was a piece of legislation, the majority of the provisions concerned the Ministry of the Interior and, of course, further amendments were added which were necessary in this transparent and timely process and were put to the attention of the Greek Parliament. In your bid, however, - and I address my colleagues in the New Democracy - to be negative in everything, you are enlisting all your powers, both inside and outside Parliament. Yesterday, for example - and I say this because it concerns the material of the Ministry of the Interior - did you have the CEDEFOP to make a statement and turn the CEDEFOP institution, which should stand up to, to what? You have put Mr Patoulis, who has been involved since the sixth month of last year in an open dialogue on the reform of the 'CALICRATES', to leave at only five. Why? What did he remember, that he was the "blue" doctor trade unionist and the "blue" mayor? Protect your people and protect your institutions of self-government. Because otherwise, then we would argue that this participation has been a pretext for so many months and has been late to do so. But such a practice does not help. So stand up to the circumstances, talk about self-government, we have enough experience, you contribute with your proposals. You have several people elected who refer to your space, but really don't empty them and don't get out of actions that don't help them. From there on, ladies and gentlemen, the main controversy took place around Article 25. And that's no accident, because Article 25 is an article that comes to solve problems, comes to give answers to something that you have avoided, gentlemen of the New Democracy, to answer. What will these people become, the contractors of cleanliness? Are they going to get fired? Aren't they gonna get paid? What do you suggest? And this is where I want to put you a quiz. We will answer it on Tuesday if the process continues. Which Minister was an extension of contractors who had completed twenty-four months? It is about the New Democracy period.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u167	Don't help us, let us find it ourselves!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u168	I'll tell you on Tuesday. I'm just giving you time to prepare. And what were the cases that you asked for an extension of contracts not for workers, but for contract cleaning companies? These were the men of those places where every concept of working rights was violated. And you know that. It has in fact proved that they are more costly to the Greek public than the contracts that we have prolonged to cover these positions. And they're not positions that only concern Ottas. We are talking about cleanliness contracts and public sector contracts. Therefore, it is not the criticism that these extensions of contracts as a whole are paid for by the compensation. Because it is perhaps their biggest place, but it is not about all of these cases. Of course, this is where your own approach is concealed, your idea that all of this should not be exercised by elected mayors. You want to be the subject of speculative, entrepreneurial activity. You want to give them to individuals. We know that. But tell them that the workers in these areas also know it and the Greek people know it. That means programming courage. Identify it, then. Say it. Because there really is a red line that separates us. There's a different concept. There is an incision on these issues. We too will defend and argue that these activities must be carried out by the municipalities, if we want to believe that the municipalities must play a substantial role, have competence or simply be handlers of some - let us say - money orders from here and there. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that in no case does Article 25 have any kind of constitutional emblem. Invoking this issue simply serves your own sterile opposition approach to this matter. Because you are well aware that these contracts were extended on the basis of lack of time, but also for reasons of public interest. However, you insist, you create problems and give the right to some even a few mayor's cases to invoke such approaches and cause problems. Today, with this amendment, with Article 25, I think we are responding to these issues. There are no such matters now and we are moving forward. I would like to refer to the amendment with a general number of 939 and a special 18. It concerns the possibility, following irrevocable judicial decisions, of recruiting people who have previously been justified. They were people who worked on work contracts. They are not counted on rule 1 to 4, because there have been previous judgments. When they started working, however, there was no need for them to have certain formal qualifications. You have already taken care of and the amendment came to the press yesterday and on various sites and said that SYRIZA is coming to appoint people to the public, his own children, without qualifications. It is the new account that we will hear in the next few days. But I repeat. They were working. They were never asked to have the standard qualification. And - you know - in their vast majority are people who work in cleanliness. I recommend that you invite some of them and see them in your parliamentary offices. Because I saw some guys and they asked me a question. "For five, seven, eight years, the state had me collecting garbage. So now, do I need to have a high school vacancy? Do I need to have my pension at fifty, fifty, two at my forty-nine to do so?" Can't these people even do that? So much social analgesia now exists in such positions? So please, if you don't have a picture, ask these people to tell you exactly how the situation is. I'm glad you're awkward, and you don't talk, because at other times you're interrupting.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u169	What about the fake degrees?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u170	What forgeries? You're messing with it, I think.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u171	They took care of them, and now it turns out.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u172	We're talking about something very specific. This is another joke, this is another story, don't mess it up. You'd better be informed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u173	Same thing. We know them well, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u174	If you know them well, when you take the floor, put them straight and say, in any case, what position you take on this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u175	The whole bill is hired.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u176	What recruitment? For people who already work? Do you still have that lie? And, indeed, do you put your people, people from media, to reproduce it? So I listened the day before yesterday to Mr. Constantine, a journalist at 'ACTION24', who is now also tweeting after two days, saying that at the office of the Minister of the Interior, Mr. Skourletis, fifty-six post-call consultants are working. It's seventeen in number. He even said they were rewarded from 2,000 to 2,200 clean. They are false, wages range from 750-800 to 1,100-1,200 euros net. He said that we should add credit cards, phones and travel expenses to them. Where do we live?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u177	That's not what we talked about.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u178	They are the people who come directly into consultation with your press office, with your own disinformation mechanisms. They are these people who, together with you, give the battle of defence of interactivity, are those people who, in the previous period and now still insist, first and foremost, the Chief of your party, do not go any further, that lawlessness, public frequencies take them as one wants and whenever he wants. These are the people you're taking your hand with. Otherwise, SYRIZA appoints armies of party leaders. But you don't read the official numbers, don't you see how much the number of civil servants is? It's completely different the subject of contractors, and I told you last time. I want to repeat this invitation. At some point we need to see this very systematically, sit down and, if possible, agree on a cross-party approach to the issue of the tens of thousands of public contractors. So that the government does not judge which one of these meets other needs than what it typically seems. Let's agree on a way. Or is that not a problem, or is it not a problem, which are eight, ten, twelve years in one place? You understand that eight, ten, twelve years ago was not the present government in things, others were. But that's not a criterion. Criterion is the real needs, the criterion is people's lives, much more, at today's difficult times. So leave the obsolete argument, leave this populist so-called neoliberal modernisation, which distinguishes your word, and sit and bend over specific issues and problems. I would like to refer to another amendment. In fact, one of the previous rapporteurs did not understand why it was tabled here and said, 'But does the Ministry of Health well table an amendment to a bill, which primarily concerns the Ministry of the Interior'? I am referring to Amendment No 941 and Amendment No 20. This is an amendment which enables regions to conclude programme contracts with health regions. The regions and municipalities, as we know, are, of course, being supervised by the Ministry of the Interior, on the basis of their own, obviously. What is the absurdity, that is, and is it annoying for you that this amendment is coming to this particular article? Or don't you want to? In fact, this provision must be made within the limit of the first and second grades of the budget. It is something that, if you ask people from your own space, mayors, districtlors, have practically helped in these difficult times various health structures, taking expenditure on everyday matters, or equipment. So let's go see how we support this polypsy health system. And that's bad? And that's what you still disagree with? So much more denial of anything? Ladies and gentlemen, I will not speak any further. We will have the opportunity, if we do not finish today, to see them next week, and that is where you too will be given the opportunity to see specifically who is now taking responsibility for what, because there are things where there is room to vote in common. It can't be that it's just a sterile opposition obsession and mood, an ideology at the end of the market's ideology to make you deny specific functional proposals, which improve people's lives, that improve everyday life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, too, for the consistency of time. Everyone's looking for Mr. Chakaloto, I don't know why. The Minister of Finance, Mr. Tsakalotos, has the floor for an amendment to Articles 4 and 4a of Law 3864/2010. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u180	This is the first time no one has complained about bypassing the Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u181	Yeah, everyone's looking for him. That's what I said. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u182	I have to tell everyone and everyone then that it's touching that you're all looking for me and that I missed you. I would also like to thank the New Democracy, which has given me congratulations on my Greeks, that they are being improved and that is why I thank them very much. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Updates are made by the Government. As far as I know, from the Constitution there is a collective responsibility of the government and when Mr Janakopoulos speaks, he does not speak of himself, but he speaks of the entire government. Let me tell you one or two things about the negotiation. I will only say one or two, because I was invited, and I was called a couple hours ago by the President of Parliament to inform me that there is a request from the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs to discuss these issues. I was happy to say that the President of the Commission has now told me that he has arranged for Tuesday at 14.00 hours, so I think it is the best place and time to talk about it because we will have much more time. On the other hand, I will have given you four more, five days to overcome the sadness about the strategy of putting all the eggs in the basket, that the government will not close the assessment, that we will take new measures of 2.6 billion, 4.6 billion, 8.3 billion. The numbers in your papers changed from day to day. One must explain to them the difference between GDP and billions. Another 2.6% of GDP and another 2 billion. It is these things that, with a little help from you, you give them the information, could improve them. I want to tell you that "all the money" was a word Pierre Moscovisi said, because when one or a Greek woman - I don't remember - journalist asks Dieselblum and Moschovisi "how Greece claims, the Greek Government will not take a measure as a result of the evaluation," he answers the English word net, that is, clearly. That one word means, even though you were expecting us to take two, four, six, eight, ten -- how long were you waiting? - measures, net financial impact, there won't be any. Moscovisi said so, net. In other words, it is true in our answer: 'How does the Greek Government claim that it will not take any other measures', he said that it will not take net measures, it will not take clear measures. In other words, if it is a package of one billion, which will be demand-restricting measures, there will be a billion - the figure I am telling you is exemplary, because it will also be part of the debate on Tuesday that the institutions will come - it will also take a billion positive measures that will return this money to the economy. And that's why Dieselblum clearly said that we're going from austerity to structural changes, reclassifications within the tax file and within the social file. Some may lose, of course, but some will win. Some, in other words, who are not helping now, and we need to help them, will win, but some may lose. We will do everything in the negotiation - I will not be able to tell you today nor on Tuesday, of course, exactly what the package of the agreement will be - to limit the loss, so that those who lose something as compensation. We have never said that the tax system has been the best forty years. We never said that through the clientele system we reached a social system that was the best. So we are always open to discussions, such as the ones that will now become for restructuring that will have a net of zero fiscal impact. If these restructurings are correct, if you approve them, if you do not approve them, it will be a debate that will have to take place after the end of the evaluation, which will bring about the programme. There you will see in detail who wins, who loses, and if we have done this restructuring in a fair way. That's what's important. You'd see more good and bad news about us. I do not want to continue to worry you by telling you that we are discussing a very large programme, which is within the package, to limit not the austerity it comes, but the austerity that existed with employment programmes and that we will discuss what you consider to be the 'left' ideologies of the left. You want not only workers and workers to have lost themselves in the crisis, but to have no guarantee that they will gain in recovery as well. That is why we are putting the question of collective agreements so high. Because if you want to know what it is that leads to the populism of the right and why there are pressures against united Europe, it is the pressures of the people who say that we have lost with globalisation, as Blair, Schrader and the centred forces before 2009, but now we have no guarantee that we will be involved in the recovery after the crisis. That is why we have been putting things together, trying to ensure that the general picture that has been in place for thirty years is overturned, which has dropped the share of labour in income, which is the wages, which is limited by the social state. That is why we are discussing what we are discussing. You'll see the whole package at the end. I cannot say in detail what this will be, what it will be in the boxes, but I think you have a very good outline from the people who went to TV on Monday night and from Mr. Janakopoulos and from the announcements. You have all the information on the main pillars of this agreement and all the others are hypocrisy and talk. You know exactly what's going on. Your problem isn't that you don't know. It's that you don't like it. You put all your eggs in a basket, bet you won't come out and you're lost, unfortunately. You could have avoided it if you were better. You have many people who are from the financial sector, who know that when we invest good it is not to put all the eggs in the same basket. I had notified Mr. Mitsotakis that this was done with Mr. Samaras' pressure and would have the same problem as Mr. Samaras his father had. I told him about it. But this strategy continued: the government must now fall, not the negotiation, not end the second assessment. My big apologies for this!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u183	The amendment, Mr Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u184	I shall now go to the amendment. They're pressing, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u185	How much time do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u186	One, one and a half minutes for each one.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u187	Mr President, it is interesting that the Minister tell us about this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u188	Let the Minister tell us, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u189	I didn't say I wouldn't leave him. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u190	The amendment on the Congregation of Music provides that the tax and insurance information of the Congregation of Music is to be extended until 31 August. You all know that we have done this before in other cases, so that the workers can be paid and the needs can be met in the House. At the same time, however, we are also making two moves to prevent this happening again. The first move is that financial control is already being carried out by the competent Office of the General Accounting Office of the State, to see exactly what the situation was in the finances of the Megaron. At the same time, we are in the process of finding a new Director-General of the Agency, which will be responsible for finance, so that this Agency enters on a new basis. The second amendment concerns the Financial Stability Fund, where in July 2016 the three members of the Executive Board resigned. As you know, we have a new framework for the Financial Stability Fund for how they are elected by a Selection Committee, which in my view did something dangerous, in that it left some people to resign before they found their replacements. This has created a number of problems that this amendment comes in to correct. I should like to give you an example of a problem that we had at the university and I would like to discuss with Mr Gavroglou so that this can be changed. If at a university a candidate is proposed by the committee and then suddenly he decides to go somewhere else, you can't take the second one. You've got to start the whole process all over again. That's not happening elsewhere, and that's not right. We are doing the same now for the Financial Stability Fund. What do we do? The priority list, how the candidates come out, can be valid for six months. So if someone says, "yes, I want to come" and last minute tells you for several reasons, for example, "I had a better proposal than anyone else" and doesn't come, you can go to the second or the third. I think it makes some changes to the contract, when it starts and when it ends. I think there's nothing very important to talk about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u191	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u192	Mr President, I would like you to give me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u193	Mr. Dendia, the Minister said he'd be detailed on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u194	Tuesday is another century.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u195	Do you want to open a conversation?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u196	Mr President, the late interest in protecting Members' time finds me absolutely in complete agreement. But you will allow me to tell you that the presence of the Minister of Finance, which I would ask will not leave the Chamber...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u197	How long will it take?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u198	Five minutes, please. The way in which we agreed on the order of time - and I think that is self-evident at the moment - do not mock at the position of Mr Skourletis can be placed at the meeting on Tuesday. But the presence and the briefing we have had from the Minister of Finance, very welcome to the fact that it has been made, even in the way it has been done, will allow me to say that I do not think it is irrelevant that the majority of the members of the New Democracy have made a request to Mr Balaura. In any case, however, the Minister has told us some things. I'm putting aside the charges against Mr. Mitsotakis. I understand that any government minister who speaks should have one year against Mr Mitsotakis, even though he is not in the Chamber and has no involvement and relationship. We're on our way to basics. The Minister came here and said for the first time talkers to the National Representation that it doesn't matter that he was not posted. It is sufficient and represents the government to place Mr. Janakopoulos. In this sense, therefore, I understand, Minister, that Greek public opinion and the National Delegation are not updated until Mr Janakopoulos. This, you know, cannot stand up to either the existing constitution or the procedures. We expect you as part of the negotiations and not Mr Janakopoulos as an expressioner of the view of the government, to tell us what happened. Secondly, on the substance of the matter now. First of all, let us remember what the Minister himself said. You, who I was a Parliamentary representative - I remember you as if he were now - told us that if the evaluation fails to close down until December this would be a disaster for the country. Today, you come and tell us that the New Democracy has suffered damage, not the country, because you have actually managed to bring the troika back to Athens and to start discussions, without even identifying us the time to come up with these debates. Apart from your position on the country's destruction, I remind you - you already know it, but I have to repeat - Mr Juliarakis' position in LSE on a need for an immediate agreement. He said, 'Better an agreement not so good now, rather than a good agreement later'. In this respect, we have not heard a comment from you. We have not even heard a request for apologies to the Greek society, in which the bad result of the delay is obviously shifted, or to the National Representation. Because when you said to the National Representation "We'll close until December, otherwise it's a disaster," I imagine you knew what you were saying. I imagine you knew the demands of the lenders, I imagine you knew your own positions, I imagine you knew your own possibilities, I imagine, Minister, where you stood. And then I don't remember saying expressly about Mark Twain and other things. Third. You also had a place here in public and you and the entire government saying that for you there are red lines and you said in particular: 'Red line is the reduction of duty-free. Red line is the reduction of pensions. None of this will in any way be accepted.' If, as you say, we are well informed of each source of information, we are very clear that you have already accepted both on the principle. What you're going to do from here and beyond in technical scales to achieve the standard level of education is to discuss the amounts on which we're actually hearing various rumors about where you've ended up. It is also obvious that you have not received anything about quantitative relaxation and it is also obvious that ultimately the only agreement that has been reached is that the troika should return to Athens and that the negotiations should be opened with a delegation - I say again - of what you said to us'red lines'. Mr President, since something has happened to you - and that is why I think the debate is beneficial, but only in that context - Marc Twain should tell you another saying of his that I found today. What's the difference between the cat and the lie? That the cat only has nine lives. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Tell us if you're kind - I'm sorry for the expression, I'm not happy to use it - how much lies we need to hear? Since when and until when will this end come? Since you know English well when I was younger, I liked Dylan. I never thought, Minister, that Dylan would get a Nobel Prize. There's a lyric that I remembered now when I listened to you. The album is called "Watchtower". Allow me to tell you in English, you will understand and translate it later: 'It's not our faith. Let's not talk falsely. The hour is getting date.’ "It's not our fate, let's leave the lies, it's the time."
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u199	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u200	Mr. Theocharopoulos, it won't start a circle. Do you want us to open a circle of parliamentarians, open up the issue and leave the bill? If you all want it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u201	On the basis of the Rules of Procedure, Mr President, following a speech by the Minister of Finance and especially the Minister of Finance...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u202	Please, how many minutes do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u203	Mr President, we will either start a parliamentary cycle or follow the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u204	That's what I asked. If they ask for the floor for three minutes, if you agree to give it for three minutes. What's your opinion?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u205	Follow the procedure. Let the Members and every four Members begin to intervene.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u206	Mr. Theocharopoulos, I'll give you the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u207	Minister, we were really surprised by your analysis. The government of your own and you in the recent Eurogroup think - and we have told you - that it gave it all without the evaluation being completed - because you spoke about statements by European officials, they said that the agreement was not closed, and your government, because there is collective responsibility, said that the agreement was closed that evening - without the incorporation into quantitative relaxation - if there is anything else to tell us - or that the public debt was significantly restructured. The opposite was done, as Mrs Lagard said about public debt yesterday. So the government gave it all for just the Troika to return. It seems that you have accepted in the medium term unacceptably high interest rates on primary surpluses. You have adopted - it seems that you did not deny it - the preventive legality of unacceptable measures when only a few days ago your government said that it is unconstitutional and outside the acquis communautaire. You accepted the reduction of basic pensions. You are discussing and accepting - or denying it - the reduction of tax. In all of this we have been having a government propaganda for the past few days: no new measures. I think that citizens now have knowledge and judgment. It seems that the government celebrates by adopting the line of Minister Zurari, the MP of the government majority, which said: "Who lives and dies after 2019?" - there's no other explanation - and you come and joke about it. You say in the morning: 'The rumours of my death are extremely exaggerated'. You forget, however, to refer to your statements. You said on April 21, 2016: "If the tax falls below 9,100 euros, I will go to Maximos, resign at Tsipras, then I will go to Parliament and vote against." A few days ago, on 27 January, after the Eurogroup: 'The government does not vote in advance. The requirements of the International Monetary Fund for measures to be taken in advance after 2018 go against European values. Asking a country to legislate two and three years ago what 2019 will do is not right. It goes beyond the European democratic acquis.' Mr Tsakaloto, there are more and I could refer to other words by Mark Twain and not to what you mentioned: 'The best way to give courage to yourself is to give courage to others'. This is probably what you did today, as also that "takes you more than three days - from three weeks said Twain - to prepare a spontaneous speech". This is due, of course, to the delay in coming. Let's get something straight. We are firmly in favour of closing the evaluation without any new unacceptable measures. That's what we're telling you. The Parliamentary Budget Office said that if it had been closed in time in 2016, it would not need all the things you are discussing today. While society cannot handle it, we cannot proceed with jokes and with such a policy, which cannot give solutions. Because the bill belongs to the Minister, Mr. Skourletis, it has made us reports of European social democracy, without the intervention of which we and our intervention would not have been left within the Eurozone, Mr. Skourletis, in 2015. You were referring to Olandrew. You were referring to all these deceptive characterizations. They have nothing to do with what you say and what you are doing today in the bill on the principles and values of European social democracy. As for all the things you have said - and the weights and all those words - look at your Ministerial Council a little. Look inside. Look next to you. We do not have to repeat the same things all the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u208	Mr. Amyras, you have the floor for three minutes, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u209	Parliamentary Representatives go in the order of each party.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u210	What did you say? We agreed for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u211	But it's not in line.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u212	No, it's not in line now. They are six Members who have to intervene in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u213	Is that new systems?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u214	The parliamentary order is on the bill and we have now made a side. That's why we agreed...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u215	But first of all, it's the JRC, and then Mr. Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u216	Mr. Amyras and then you. Mr Amyras has asked for the floor beforehand. Please, Mr. Amyras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u217	Thank you, Mr President. I had asked for an intervention two hours ago. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all we were relieved to see Mr Chakaloto come. We've made a black eye to see him from the Eurogroup. Today, indeed, I had asked him a timely question about 'SIEMENS' and about whether the extrajudicial compromise is being implemented, if SIEMENS has paid the 70 million required by the Greek State, if 80 and 90 million euros have been invested. In any case, I hope that Mr Tsakalotos will appear next week on the subject of 'SIEMENS'. But first of all, I would like to make a few remarks, Mr Minister, on what you have told us. I would say that today we have learned that frogs pay it not only when buffalo fights with each other, but frogs pay it, and when buffalo agrees with each other. For example, you have managed to lose the positive elements of the negotiation, such as the debt haircut, which your Government originally said. So rescheduling or reducing debt, as the IMF claimed, has now gone to the bells. Mrs. Lagard said so yesterday. The debt haircut - as you want to call it - we see it later. On the other hand, the Europeans have decided to disconnect the QE assessment and have said to take the tough measures first and then come the quantitative relaxation. But here I have some comments to make. First of all, I do not agree with Mr Tsakalotou's general approach that the opposition struggled and said the evaluation would not be closed. If you were watching "Potami" you would see that we were sure to close the evaluation. We were sure, because you usually sign what they bring you. This is not the closure of the evaluation. It's another elbow in Greek society and economy. Let's see things with coolness: Mr. Tsakalotos tells us clearly and clearly that yes, there will be new measures and that yes, some will lose. Who will lose, Minister, and in what way? Are you going to reduce the tax? Will you take it to 6,000 euros? Will you take it to 5,000 euros? Tell us what you've agreed to with the lenders. Secondly, you tell us that in the face of what would happen, that is, the worst chances for the Greek economy, you would make some retreat. So tell us the prerogative of measures for 2019 is or is it not unconstitutional? You said so. Is the reduction of pensions, which is, of course, linked to the fact that you have agreed to the surpluses of 3.5% for many years after 2018, is it or is it not a blow against the Greek economy and the poorest family? [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] The truth is that we have been in front of an extremely successful one in terms of its imaginary morphology, propaganda of Ministers. What we have not heard: we have heard, for example, Mr Spirtzi from my home country, the Yannena, celebrated along with the city's liberation and the end of the crisis and the exit from austerity. We have also heard Mr Janakopoulos say 'the end of the austerity'. Why didn't you dance in the Constitution? What we didn't hear! The most important and most exotic element we have heard from Mr Papapas' lips, who said that the agreement is a mirror: a euro will be taken and one will be given back. In what way? I ask you again, Mr Tsakalotos, what euro will you get back? From the reduction of pensions? From the tax reduction? How will you give back one euro? Will you cut off the main pensions and increase the supplementary pensions? Explain! Will you tax more by reducing the tax on employees and pensioners, and will you give them another way, indirectly, in the pocket? Explain how! Ladies and gentlemen, we say that you should get into the sphere of truth. Stop saying things that don't apply to this tired Greek society. The Greeks could be more receptive if you told them "we did this, we did not achieve it. We have postponed this." But don't take us for politically unscrupulous, to tell us that you have reached a great compromise. Explain to us and give us the elements of the compromise. I return, Mr Tsakaloto, with a direct question: will pensions be reduced after this second assessment has been closed? Will citizens' taxation be increased by reducing duty? Are we going to QE or not and when? When will these talks be closed for the second evaluation? So the waste of this day and debate so far is that when the buffalo agrees and not only when they fight, the weak pay it, the frogs pay it. The IMF put aside its arguments to reduce the Greek debt, and Europeans put aside everything else, even quantitative relaxation. They ask you to take measures and now call before the Greek people to tell us who these measures are and who they will harm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u218	Thank you, Mr. Amyras. I shall give the floor to Mr Pafili, the last parliamentary representative who has asked for the floor on this matter. Mr Pafile, may I have a minute, because there has been a change in the Bureau, to inform the House that at the Conference of Presidents which ended a few minutes ago it was decided, at the request of the Standing Committee on Finance, on Tuesday afternoon at 16.00, if I remember correctly, the Minister for Finance, Mr Tsakalotos, to inform the committee of what is happening at Eurogroup. I put it in the House, even though you'll find out. I would ask, in addition to what is lacking by the parliamentary representatives who have asked for Mr Kremastinos to be posted for a three-minute term, to confine himself to the debate on the bill. Twenty-nine speakers are registered.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u219	Mr President, how far are we going to arrive today?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u220	I would suggest - Mr Pafile, please - that we limit the speakers' time from seven to five minutes...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u221	Oh, no! For what?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u222	Oh, no! Spray, wipe, are you done?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u223	Isn't it going to be the third session?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u224	All right, one sentence is made! Otherwise, with the seven-minute period of calculation and the interventions of the Parliament and the Ministers, we are of course counting on the process to be concluded at around 23.00 hours today. If we want to do so earlier, I have proposed a two-minute reduction in time. You don't? Oh, no! There's no question, Almond! Mr. Pachilis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u225	Mr President, the rapporteurs also want to talk about the amendments. When will they talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u226	You're quiet? Do I have the floor, Mr President, or do I not have him now? But don't open matters now...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u227	You've got him, Mr. Paphie. Anyone's flying now. We are trying to set up a series of the Bureau. You're right, Mr. Paphie. Mr Georganta, listen, to be explained: You know very well that from the previous Conference of Presidents it was decided - it is recorded in the minutes of the Conference - that the discussion of this bill would take place at a meeting...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u228	Or two.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u229	Listen to me, let me talk. And if the number of speakers were large, and we would have spent the twelfth evening - we had a limit of 00.30' at the Conference of Presidents - then we would have decided earlier, of course, to continue the debate on the bill, which is uniform on Tuesday. That's what happened. No one's missed you the reason. You'll be able to place yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u230	May I have the floor a little, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u231	If we look at the development of the debate that today's day is not enough, then we should rethink it. There's no limit.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u232	Mr President, when I made my suggestion, I did not know whether I would have a first day or a second. At that time it wasn't known.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u233	I repeat... I beg your pardon very much, this was announced by the President-in-Office when the procedure began today.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u234	When was it announced? At the time of my suggestion, speakers were still in writing!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u235	And I do not think that as rapporteur for a bill you are not aware of the procedure for the debate in plenary.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u236	Mr President, there are speakers in the speech by the second rapporteur.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u237	Mr. Pachilis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u238	We'd better finish the circle and then open the proceedings. This is as an observation to the Bureau. As for Mr. Kremastino, even though he's gone, I want to tell him that we don't get used to making a fuss about when we're going to take the floor. We are simply asking for it to go properly, as is the parliamentary power of the parties. Of course, Mr Cremastino sees far more to the right than to the left. It's reasonable he didn't see us. There's no problem. In the end, however, Mr. Chakalotos, as they write and shout, did not disappear. It was here, and it was known. But what is certain is that people's incomes are now disappearing with the new agreements. That's a fact. The government's here, is it negotiating, and where are we? I'm talking about the world. The agreement, which seems to be coming - I don't know in detail, we'll see the finals - has already been transparent, what exactly is it? Is it a continuation of the third memorial, or not? And why are the others doing this? Didn't you know what you were voting for - first question - when you voted for the third memorandum? I mean both the New Democracy and the other parties that voted for it. Didn't you know what you voted for? Secondly, do not tell me that you did not know the demands of the IMF, the European Union and all these imperialist organisations. You know them very well, and you fully agree, like the government that denounced them, that would make them. So this is a theater. So, what were you guys waiting for exactly? Aren't you calling 'not to close the evaluation' now? What were you expecting from the evaluation? Should the horns be opened to throw money on the workers? To raise wages, pensions and everything else? That is exactly what the government serves. It continues to implement the third memorandum and is in line with the requirements of the IMF, the European Union and, above all, - and it is nothing else - with the requirements of capital and monopolies. That's what she does. You fight everyone else who best serves their interests. Does it seem, however, that the government prove to be a better'student' in this service and for one more reason: Alchemy, when was it, Minister? The Middle Ages? We have an alchemy of 2017. Such alchemys! They are, indeed, surprisingly what you say! Zero, he says! We don't have anything! No charge! Let's see. If the tax tax is reduced, will we have a charge? Yes or no? Even 10 euros - which will be much longer - I say. Who will pay the bride from this tax reduction? The industrials? The shipowners? The big traders? Big chapter? Oh, no. Low wages will pay it, even more, 100, 200, 300 euros a year, equivalent to a payroll. That's what: Zero? No charge? Will pensions be reduced? Yes or no? Where's Mr. Katrugalos? All right, Mr. Katrugalos is now in Saudi Arabia. It's not a question of Katrugalou. It's a matter of government. What were you talking about? That no pension is to be reduced. Get out and see the world. Now, you all go out together and go talk about it. Let's see where they went and collect! The mockery has limits to a few things. You should go out and say it directly and not these alchemys, that is, this ravage to the Greek people. And there's more coming. And then the work comes. We have a fairy tale of compensation. But do we not have the experience of a 'parallel program'? That's what you announced at the time, isn't it? We made the agreement, but we also have a 'parallel programme'. Eventually the parallel became perpendicular, memorable! What 'parallel program'? What compensation are you talking about? That one's gonna lose, one's gonna get. Unless you give block to every employee and write: I lost one today, give me one. I lost two, give me two. Who are you talking to? That if you lower your tax duty and pay a higher tax, if you reduce pensions, plus labour, etc., you will have compensation. What compensation? It's a holocaust. Firstly, it is not going to happen, even if there are some and what is there, to make up for the losses. As to what you say about VAT, and so on. You know, at one time I think - you are speaking seriously and scientifically, no objection - but also a little attention, whether it will compensate for, even a reduction in, VAT, for example, a reduction in duty-free or a reduction in pensions. That's arithmetic. One and one are two. Not even a hundred and eleven. So what will the compensatory measures be in the end? Where are they going to end up? They will end up with what you say: we will bring growth. I mean, what? You'll give money to monopolies, motives, plus the rest of the work that's on the table to serve capitalist growth. Will the world win or lose? That's the question. You say he won't win or lose. I'm not very good at math, but I've never heard of that kind of math before. I imagine no one can imagine that duty-free will be reduced, pensions reduced, new measures will come in a number of areas - plus the rest that are already beginning and being implemented and we have reached a dead end - and that will be zero. Finally, with great interest the Minister and the government are saying - perhaps the rest - that the age of austerity is now ending in the European Union, that things are changing. I imagine that it does not mean it, based on data and estimates, not our own, but on the European Union itself and on all international organisations. The supposed recovery and development is anemic and depends on too many factors in international developments. You know that very well. You know what that reminds me of? What you were saying in an election: Hope is coming, Europe is changing. It's changed. And it got worse. That's the kind of thing it's always been, but it's getting worse. So now by developing illusions again to the people that growth is coming, that things are changing in the European Union, the issue is not that you are out of place and time, because I think you are well aware of the difficulties that are coming and that the crisis is not going through easy, as is the dangers that exist. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude and thank you, Mr President. What you are doing is - again - to create false hopes, to try to cover a barbaric policy that, together with the other parties, you have agreed, instead of going out and telling the truth to the people. This is called a political choice, I am serving the interests of the system, of capitalist development, that is, of monopolies. The interests of monopolies and capitalist development are incompatible with the people's interests, because in order for such growth the exploitation must be increased. Some people have to pay her. It's paid by the workers and the populace, and you're against them. You'll see them with the struggles that will grow.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u239	Mrs Bakis, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, has the floor. The parliamentary representative of the Independent Greeks, Mr Papachristopoulos, has also asked for the floor. I think that there is no request from another parliamentarian, they have been placed. After Mr Papachristopoulos, the Minister has also asked for an intervention for three to four minutes. Let's hang up with Mr. Chakaloto so we can continue the debate on the bill. Mrs Vaki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u240	Mr President, I will not abuse time. I just want to give some of the answers that have been given to my colleagues. The Greek people are tired of seven years of austerity and of the enormous difficulties. However, he was equally tired of destructive preachers. We do not triumph or present any success story. The data, however, are: Moscovici and Düsselblum - if you have followed their statements - possibly under the pressure of the elections in their countries, made a statement. They talked about the end of austerity. They have spoken of a budgetary balance that will be completely neutral, that for each euro tax, there will also be a euro tax exemption. With regard to the rest, is it not important that there will be a 3 billion-dollar programme for 100 000 new jobs when unemployment has reached a two-digit figure? We found her at 27 percent, and she fell to 23%. Is it not important that the road opens up to the reintroduction of collective labour agreements, which New Democracy sees as also ideological obsessions? And I come to the New Democracy colleagues. You ask the government to delay and that this delay was creating irrational creditors' demands. I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, who does not want this assessment to be closed? Is it the Greek Government's fault of the delay? What are you doing? Every day from this Step of the House, you are invited to an election. The Vice-President told you not to close the assessment in order for this government to fall and for Mr Mitsotakis to be Prime Minister. So who does not want this assessment to be closed? Here we have a theater of irrationality. You keep talking about delays. What's it for? Is it due to the Greek Government? I have not heard you say anything about the paradoxical and blackmailing policies of the International Monetary Fund. I have never heard you say a good word about the Commission's information. On the contrary. Your MEPs in the European Parliament on a national issue, on a matter that goes beyond micro-party purposes and micro-political exploitation, challenged both Dobrovski and the Community's elements and were in the hardest position of lenders. Is this your position on a national issue of major importance for an entire people? You are investing in destruction, operating at this time not as rivals of SYRIZA and the Government, but as opponents of Greece in the attempt to negotiate. Did we hear who? The chief of Grexit's idea once, Mr. Wolfgang Soible, says that he never raised the issue of Grexit and no longer exists as an idea at the table and from here on the Step, your Chief was constantly destroying, asynchronously, talking about Grexit, about the country's destruction, etc. What for? To speed up the long-stayed election, or why would you want to be you to sign up to it forever? And not only everything and everything that they propose to us, but more so, according to the Vice-President's dear expression again. I shall therefore call for tons to fall, stop all this catastrophe - never the negotiations have been an easy case - to calm down and to promote the good of a society, a society that has been afflicted for several years and must come out of this committee situation upright.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u241	Mr Papachristopoulos, Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u242	Thank you, Mr President. Three days ago - not three years ago - all the websites were slapped and we learned that on Monday night the Prime Minister will make a message to the Greek people. Destruction and rupture were given to some. We have also learned that all the funds are being dismantled and that it was going through a climate of total destruction. I'm starting with this to say this. I didn't mean to talk, but I think some things need answers. Yes, the word 'Grexit' will not be heard again. Some people put it too deep in their minds. The word 'elections' will not be heard again for a long time. Some people still have to put that right in their minds. I want to invoke what Klaus Regling said, who wasn't always friendly with us. He said that from 86 billion may not all be needed and a double-digit number of billions may be needed. I would like to remind you that Klaus Regling himself has confessed that we paid FINANSBANK two billion in time, passing a message on to the markets that something is changing in this country. I still want to remind you that everyone had bet on 0.3% recession and we presented under economic suffocation conditions, 0.3% growth for 2016. All evaluation houses, with no exception, which have never been friendly with us, give growth from 2.5% to 3.2% for the next four years. I'm saying this because something's changed. Yeah, the negotiation's tough. I'm one of those who don't hide their words. The QE, that is, quantitative relaxation, is a key point for us. I think if we don't make it on March 9th, it'll be a month back. If that's our crime, convict us. But I'm sure this story will pass and the canvas will pass. I still want to remind you that no one loved us. The uncertainty about what Trump will do, the extreme right-wing movements in Europe, Lepen, Wilders, the uncertainty in Italy, the unpredictable Erdogan, the rise of social democracy in Germany, the position of Gabriel and Schultz, have weakened everything possible, Mr. Shoeble, Mr. Shoeble. No one loved us. I think something's changing. Some would go up to the tiles if the institutions didn't get down here. They'd go up on the tiles! They'd dance from morning to night! Unfortunately, we speak another language in this Chamber. Yeah, the deal's on track. We're looking at what we're gonna win and what we're gonna lose. There's a lot of pension spit. 0.75% is 1.4 billion and we speak from 2020 to 2022. And everyone puts it on the table like it's for granted. No, it's not a given. Even the level of the tax is for granted. Yeah, in a negotiation, you're going to retreat. The country will change, whether they want it or not some people want it. I want to say something about Euclid Tsakalotos and that is my personal view. He has negotiated hard, honestly, with courage. A big thank you! That's personal to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u243	Thank you, Mr. Papachristopoulos. We will give the floor, as I said before, to the Minister of Finance, Mr Chakaloto, and close this part of the debate to continue with the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u244	Mr President, we have heard a number of excesses. Mr Amyras said that they made black eyes to see me since the Eurogroup ended. Let me remind you that the Eurogroup was on Monday and we were in Brussels on Monday and Tuesday. So my mother would not say, if she had to see me one day, that this is 'black eyes'. We need to get serious. But Mr. Dendias took it a little further. Mr. Dendias said that for the one day he hasn't seen me, a constitutional issue comes in. When Mr Dendias spoke, I had a 'déjà vu'. Why did I have a déjà vu? He was going around me what was going on and then I remembered that I woke up - as I wake up to have a pleasant morning - with Mr Papadimitriou and Mr Portasalte and said exactly what Mr Dendias said. It was just his words. I do not know if you give a "line" to "SCAI" or "SCAI" gives "line" to you, but you said exactly what they said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u245	Yes, but you've got the answer ready.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u246	However, with regard to the fact that there is a constitutional issue that I did not come to the House on Wednesday, I think this is so much exaggeration, even on your own side. Mr. Nine, I'd like to make two corrections. In philosophy the proposal "ho does alpha" is completely different from the proposal "ho is the only one doing alpha". It's two different proposals. The fact that Mr Janakopoulos represents the government does not mean that only Mr Janakopoulos represents the government. That's a little difference. But that's not the most important thing. Most importantly, you don't even know Europe's institutions and how they work. The Qe is a decision of the ECB that he can't haggle, nor can he give you guarantees or he can discuss with you on this matter. The QE is an independent European Central Bank that takes its decision on monetary policy. I see Mr. Mateatakis explains that he's right...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u247	On the contrary, I'm saying you're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u248	I'd be upset if I told you what he's telling me. You're gonna make me answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u249	Minister, please. Ladies and gentlemen, do not interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u250	Mr Tendas, it is obvious that you do not know the Statute of the ECB, because you could not say what you said. With what you said, Draghi would laugh if he listened. But you keep saying everyone's lying. New Democracy has not always said so, but since you've been an alliance with Mr. Georgiades, you have this style that says "What others say is lies", instead of sitting there and making political confrontation. You're not honored to claim that we lie six times. But I have to say a good one. I don't know what I'm gonna do with the negotiating team, but at least we update your literary reports. I'm glad to hear you both know Mark Twain and Bob Dylan. So the Minister of Finance has at least achieved something in this Chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u251	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-eight students and three educational attendants from the 1st General High School of Pyrgos. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Before entering the list of speakers, I would like us to reconsult ourselves on the procedure. I propose that we give the floor to two ministers who have asked for the floor to be put on amendments that have been tabled...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u252	On provisions, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u253	Yes, sir. We have amendments and provisions on which the ministers want to place themselves. I would ask the ministers very briefly to make a statement. Then we begin the list of speakers with the seven minutes available. Why are you laughing, please?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u254	You're not respecting anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u255	If you don't want us to organize the conversation, what can I say? On the basis of the seven-minute period, then, and the number of speakers registered, we might be able to reach the fourth hour from now, without counting the interventions of the parliamentary representatives, but also the possible secondaryities of the rapporteurs and speakers. Again, we're going 20:00 or 21:00 at the most. I think if the time is respected, we'll finish about that time. I will give Mr Muzala the floor to speak about Amendment No 935.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u256	Mr President, just a minute! The House is the sovereign and can decide on the agenda. We had arranged to go by 16:00 the hour today.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u257	Who arranged this?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u258	The whole House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u259	When did the House arrange?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u260	Mr President, listen to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u261	Finish and I'll answer you. I'm listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u262	We had all agreed, and we had put the matter to Mr Cremastino, who referred us to the Conference of Presidents. However, since that time I have told Mr Cremastino that he is a sovereign body and is not the Conference of Presidents. So I insist on my proposal, and I say to the Bureau of Parliament that we go today by 16.00 or 17.00, that the parliamentary representatives speak, that some ministers speak, and that we go with the Members next week into a procedure and on the amendments, so that it ends next Tuesday. That's the suggestion. Put this proposal to the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u263	It has been heard and your proposal has been recorded, and now I'm answering. It's another proposal. I would point out and repeat that it was decided that this bill should be single. In the morning - I have here and the Minutes - the first President-in-Office, Mr Kaklamanis, in what he mentioned is that if the number of speakers is less or about thirty...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u264	He said “nearly.”
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u265	Do you want to hear or don't want to hear?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u266	I was present, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u267	Look, I try orally and quickly to convey what was said at the beginning of the sitting this morning. If you want me to read two pages and have such a mood, I would be happy to read it. It was said that after the end of the second rapporteur, and since the Bureau had the image of the speakers, there would be a debate and, perhaps, a proposal to continue the procedure on Tuesday. Turns out, with the twenty-nine - thirty Members who are written - I told you the timetables before - and with one tolerance of time it is a four-hour, as far as I am concerned - I would point out - the speeches made by the speakers. If, then, we add to this four-hour period and the speeches made by the Members and rapporteurs and speakers, who are another two-hour, about three hours, we are talking about six hours. Around 21:00, that's why I told you before. So what's the point? If you object, if there are disagreements from the parliamentary groups, they should listen, they should be expressed and see what we are going to do. Think about it. We will now give the floor to the Minister, so that we do not have time. Mr. Muzala, you have the floor for four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u268	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I propose Amendment No 935/14, which provides for money, which has been recorded through the legal procedures, for damages suffered by the Moria farmers from this huge migratory and refugee wave that has passed. We made an effort to get these things through the ELGA. Legislation does not cover this issue. So we have two things. One is that we are preparing legislation - it is not so easy - that there can be a more general arrangement for such things and through the ELGA. It would be a mistake to delay these people's payments further. He took over the Ministry of Immigration from a small fund that has the paradoxes of legal immigrants, and we're going to pay these sums to Moria. I would like to say to you that you will be waiting for another provision in the next few weeks, which will deal with the same issue for the Municipality of Paionia, the Minutes, which the farmers have suffered a great deal of damage there. I come to two issues to cover these people as quickly as possible. Second matter. We need to create a provision that can be put on the table as quickly as possible in such cases. To conclude, I should like to say this: I have listened with surprise again today - with the exception of the speaker from Potami, Mr Dannelly - to call it 'the emergency measures, since the circumstances are no longer exceptional' and all this. Look at that. I have explained all this to you in the Commission. You're hurting home. Don't say such things. I don't know, are you suggesting to the People's Party or the Socialist Party that the conditions in Greece are no longer extraordinary? Because I will leave here and go to Europe, and I have to negotiate to insist that the conditions are extraordinary. This means that the agencies are obliged to provide us with more FRONTEX, EASO, to increase the extra funds. Don't say such things in the context of an Opposition. Seven months after Idomen's dissolution, the conditions remain extraordinary, which is what the villages from which you come know, know the islands and everyone else. Don't put these pieces in your counterpopulation. It's not true and you know it! I do not believe that there is a serious man here who claims that seven months later - in Germany eighteen months later - to remain. For God's sake, don't mess things up! We are fighting Europe to ensure the help we need not only in money, but also in staff. And there are states which are particularly hostile to our country - I do not want to name them as Minister - which give the opposite battle, saying that it is okay that the conditions in Greece are no longer critical. So don't say that thing. You're making a mistake! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u269	Thank you, Mr. Muzala. Here, Mr. Contonis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u270	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, you bear in mind that the bill we are discussing under Rule 32 on the reopening of mortgages which have been closed for a long time did not work, so that a major social and economic problem has been created in the areas in which they are situated. As to what we are doing with the conversion of the unpaid mortgages - which are closed - I think you all understand that. I will say three things that are very basic. First of all, we achieve the immediate assurance and operation of these mortgages. As far as the areas under an exclusion regime - not to say hostage - from economic life and security of trade are concerned, this will no longer be the case with the relaunch of the mortgages. Secondly - which is very fundamental - we are achieving the collection of revenues in favour of the budget without the retention that the unpaid mortgage guard was entitled to. Thirdly, we maintain workers' jobs in these mortgages under the conditions laid down by the provision and the law. I think that this is how we solve a serious problem that has arisen. And, of course, not only do we solve it and reintroduce mortgages, but we ensure, as I have said, both public revenue and jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Parliamentary Representative or rapporteur for the River, Mr Dannelly, raised a question of the supposed constitutionality of the provision concerning the temporary delegation of powers to register acts or not to the local court. First of all, I would like to remind you that we also have a Scientific Committee here, and it is good for its conclusions and opinions to be checked and read about them. This is not a question for the Scientific Committee of the Parliament. What matters and we must see is, however, that this view - I do not comment on the fact that it was initially expelled by the Association of Unpaid Wardens - I am not commenting on it, people think they are right in this area, they are not and, above all, are not concerned with how these mortgages that have been closed after the unpaid mortgages have left. But what concerns me is that there has been - and Mr Dannelis rightly said so - a communication from the Association of Judges on this subject. Of course, the Association of Prosecutors has every right to express its views on these matters and is doing well. However, when these views are so prejudicial to serious issues and when they are fully in line with the expressed and written views of the Scientific Council of Parliament, I am concerned about very serious issues, because these views come from judges who also judge the constitutionality of the law. I would therefore like to refer to what the Scientific Committee of Parliament says, but also to the decisions of the Council of State and of the Chambers, which have expressed the view that mortgages are not public officials, that it is not an executive administrative act to register or not a particular act of the mortgage, and that is why this act is not being challenged before the administrative courts, but with political courts. The most important thing of all is that here for the workers, I would like to say that in fact workers in the courts have this status of permanentity, but the rulings of the Supreme Courts I am referring to the Council of State in 2014 enables the courts to be appointed by staff, which permeates its relationship with the public, the employment relationship with private law and the provision of private labour. Therefore, the case-law of the Courts, already expressed and recorded, annuls all those objections. I would therefore like to say to everyone that there is no question of voting for this provision from the point of view of substance, because it solves serious social issues and from the point of view of science. As far as the issue of reducing the insurance contributions of judges is concerned, I would like to mention - and you are all aware - that the work of judges in the years of the crisis has been greatly reduced, their contributions have been impossible to cover, and that is why we have taken this initiative in Article 33. As far as Article 34 is concerned, the new principle of preliminary rulings is concerned. With regard to the amendment to regulate matters relating to the functioning of the principle of the examination of preliminary disputes and appeals, there is the need to take part in the explanatory statement and it is the Deputy who has been received - obviously by mistake - by the President, as well as the place to lodge appeals before this judicial authority. Also, something very important to speed up these procedures is that we will now have a simple examination of the appeal to complete these procedures quickly. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to raise a number of complaints about rhetorical procedures for workers in the mortgages, because I think this has been understood. It was incomprehensible to move towards a solution to the problem by creating and exacerbating an existing problem, which is the problem of workers and the high unemployment rate. I believe that in this way there is the possibility that these workers will be chosen to join the new paid mortgages, of course with a lower wage, with the wages for the public. Finally, I would like to mention to you the amendment we are tabling, on the issue of the constitutionally guaranteed independent authorities, regarding their duties. We need to vote in favour of this amendment because we had a problem. The problem has now been about the serious staffing of these independent authorities. You know that pensionable senior judges, on the basis of the last law, could not have enjoyed some credit for the work they provide, which is very complex, very serious and has consequences for all sectors of social life in the area to which they refer. It was therefore necessary to have a chance to pay for this work, because otherwise we would have the phenomenon of people working to get less money than would be taken by one of their colleagues who would normally be retired and who would not work. It was therefore a question of justice, and in this sense we call on Mr President, all Members to vote in favour of the provisions and amendments proposed by the Ministry of Justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u271	Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u272	Mr. President, is there another Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u273	There are, but they will obviously intervene later.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u274	I'm asking for an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u275	For amendment, no. As far as I know, two Ministers, I would like to tell you the names, Mr Famelos and Mr Spirtz, have asked for some of the articles in the bill to be placed briefly. But not now. A little later. Did you ask for the floor, Mr. Teddy? For three minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u276	Yes, Mr. President. First of all, for the first amendment proposed by Mr Muzalas, the New Democracy will stand positively, Minister. There is a precedent, of course, for the 2008 disasters. I must stress that a precedent is being created here, which is worrying, because in reality the Greek State is retrospectively covering damage, and it should have been with its competent bodies to prevent the damage. I come to what Mr Kontonis said earlier. As far as constitutionality is concerned, you are right, Minister. I do not think there is any question of unconstitutionalism here. Funny, it's another conversation. The new Republic and our rapporteur in committee have not been placed here positively. You may convince us during the conversation. For now, we are not convinced. If you are right, we will be voting in favour. You will simply allow me to ask you - and it is one of the main reasons I would like to address you - whether the amendment is sufficient as it has been made on the issues of the independent authorities. We would like the government to be sure that this is sufficient and to resolve the issue and not to come back a week, ten days, to see it again. I also have to make a small comment on what the Minister, Mr Chakalotos, addressed to me earlier. I'm sorry because he's not in the Chamber. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we all know here that the issue of quantitative relaxation follows the completion of the evaluation. I will produce tomorrow - I have it upstairs - an interview by Mr. Tsakalotou who himself says so. However, I am not disturbed, Mr President, by the Minister's attempt to act now that quantitative relaxation is independent of its completion. I was disturbed by his style. The style of the "parenty". You know that style of irony is perhaps appropriate to Oxbridge graduates, but provided they bear nobility. The Minister, in his attitude, proves that not only does he bear the title of hereditary courtesy, but he also lacks some thing I have rendered in the past, the title of personal courtesy. I am therefore returning to him the irony of our ignorance in the New Democracy and of allowing me, Mr President, to recommend to him that he go to do his job and complete the negotiation as quickly as he can, finish the evaluation and leave the joke because there are no jokes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u277	Thank you, Mr. Dendia.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u278	Mr President, I would like the floor to...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u279	Excuse me. We said after Mr Dendia that the list of speakers should begin. They are waiting for our colleagues to be present. Don't start a new circle now...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u280	I don't want to answer Mr. Tsakalotos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u281	What exactly do you want, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u282	I'd like to give a reassurance...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u283	You have the floor for a minute. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u284	I was asked by the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative to confirm that this is how the amendment on the independent authorities resolves the issue. I think, Mr President-in-Office, that he actually solved this because I told you the problem we have faced. Implementation by serious scientists and law-abiding lawyers has had a serious impact on the functioning of these authorities. As far as the mortgages are concerned, I would like to say that we agree and I am particularly pleased that we agree on the fact that there is no question of unconstitutionality. What I would like to stress, however, is that there is a great reason for voting for feasibility, because at this point I will tell you that the Tower mortgages have been closed for twenty months and the Amaliad mortgages have been closed for too many months. The economic life and security of trade in specific areas have fallen dead. The same goes for New Ionia. We therefore need to find a solution. I am telling you to keep this in mind - because I was also asked by a colleague in his speech - that there is indeed an overall arrangement for mortgages and real estate offices, and now this will be a single state body - a legal person governed by public law, in which he will be the head of law, and there will be complete security of transactions. One thing about this little one - in any case - time cannot be done and I think we are best solving all the problems, namely the operation of the mortgages and the guarantee of workers and the guarantee of public revenues. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u285	Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u286	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u287	Mr. Theocharopoulos, what exactly do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u288	I would like a minute to talk about the amendment tabled by Mr Mousalas a moment ago. I would like for a moment to formulate our arguments, that is why we are asking for it to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u289	Here, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u290	The amendment on compensation to residents of the municipal district of Morias Lesvos, tabled essentially by five ministers, concerns a real problem in the region. The Government must, in fact, restore the damage caused to the property of the residents directly. It was delayed over a year, creating additional problems for people who contributed to the management of the refugee crisis, when the official state was absent. The coverage, however, of the expenditure on the compensation to residents of Moria from the compensation misgivings they pay for the issue and renewal of their distribution permits is legally ill, but mainly causes the symbolic level. The amendment tabled is a monument of hypocrisy and racism. Why hypocrisy? Because it is responsible for damages to refugees, concealing government responsibility for the lack of basic care for the reception and living conditions of refugees. It is also a monument of racism because it targetes refugees as offenders, but also why it introduces a reasonable collective responsibility for the refugees. The government must therefore withdraw the amendment and cover the costs of residents' compensation in a legitimate way. We are telling you that we in the refugee population have tried in every way in the European area, but also in our country, to help resolve the problems of refugees. I heard the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative a moment ago. It is not clear what the government brings with this amendment or exactly what we are denouncing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u291	Good. We are entering the list of speakers. The first speaker is Mr Trinidad Mitafidis from SYRIZA. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u292	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by saying that, since the debate has taken a different turn, we welcome the discharge - as we all expected - of the mayor of Patras, the fighter Peletides, after the lawsuit made by the Golden Dawn Nazi gang to him. I hope that this decision will be an example for other cases. [[Applause]] Let me begin by honoring the memory of an important director, whom we lost, Nikos Koundouros, the fighter of anti-fascist resistance, the Macronisiotis, the man who, he said, does not do art for art. He trained in film creation, dealing with it from a social point of view and as he said: "I don't do movies for my master. I care for others, for others, for others, for bad feelings, for misery, for love, for death." That is why, when he came out of the Macronissos, the period with the papers of social care and the persecutions of the post-parent state, he took care to recruit in his film workshops rivals and his fellow believers. I would like to make a small comment on 'discovery' by the people in the European Union who are responsible for the wheel, austerity. So they discovered that austerity seriously harms Europe's health and, of course, ours. I hope they mean it not in words, but in practice. I would therefore like to dedicate to them a verse from Breech: 'They who take food from the table are declaring austerity. Those who take all the beams seek sacrifices." This, if you like, is also a comment on the obsolete government negotiation, which I see is a great disappointment to the opposition, because its forecasts have been disproved. I would like to say to you that I saw in repetition on a channel, one of the stars, in the past, of state television - on the flawless memory of bipartism - making this incredible comment. Listen to it: "The triumphs of the government for its debacle at the Eurogroup remind the announcements, triumphs, of Joseph Goebbels..." - please listen! - "... after the defeat of the German troops in Stalingrad." That is the level of this para-democratic - so I will say it - of punctuality, which serves very much - as in the past - the system of corruption which has led the place to such a mess. I would like, ladies and gentlemen, to welcome Rule 25 of the bill so that we can finally pay - and it is not at all a crown on the head of a left-wing government, of course - these waffles - how can I tell them otherwise? - the cleanliness, which for seven months have remained unpaid and for which speeches, like my other colleagues at the Committee of the Municipality of Thessaloniki, were referred to the disciplinary committee with the question of the removal and payment of sums which they had taken, when applying a judicial decision, that these people cover permanent and permanent needs, we extended their stay in the Municipality of Thessaloniki. Otherwise, his services would have collapsed. I want to tell you that I've spent no hours, but the whole day in the courts to get a provisional order and pay these people. For guardians of public money, such as members of the Court of Auditors, consider the recycling of people as a constitutional issue, but not a constitutional issue the constant work of these people. And I would like, gentlemen of the New Democracy - of course only Mr Kyriazidis is here - to ask you the following question: why do you not ask your own, fellow politicians in Europe how the needs of cleanliness in Europe are met in the largest municipalities in Europe? With contractors, recycled workers or indefinite contracts? I've seen this with a naked eye on a visit from the Municipality of Thessaloniki. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to close up with something that I should like to say, because it is happening - and I consider it to be an honorable - President of the Committee on Friendship and the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela. I say this because this supposedly valid commentator, in addition to the disgraceful and insulting who said about the armies of the people who gave their lives without profit, after exuding the profit that it is the driving force of history, said: "The Communists who rule Greece today, because communists are, have a model for Chaves and Maduro, who implements the Maduro diet and have lost at least six kilos of the Venezuelans." So I want to answer all these deceptives. And you know what these remarks remind me of, don't you? The old people remember them. That's what we grew up with. The "Sovietologists" of the Georgian type said that. You remember those things. And they told who? To those who went to school and ate the garbage of UNRA every morning. So I give you some information about those who have been unemployed and who are under economic exclusion, as you know. The UN is the elements, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u293	Mr. Mitafidis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u294	I'll be done. During this period, a million and a half homes have been erected fully equipped. And they were given free of charge. You know what favelas are in these countries. Listen to something else. Public debt is below 30% of GDP, unemployment is at 5%, the extreme poverty that before the Bolivarian revolution was 30%, today is 5% of the population. In fact, the competent UN agency has declared Venezuela "free from hunger". In fact, the UN food programme bears the name of Chaves. That's for restoring the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u295	Thank you, Mr. Mitafidis. Mr Kyriazidis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u296	After reconstituting the Venezuelan issues, let us also come to Greece. Comrades and comrades, I had a little reservation. I have no reservations with Mr Tsakalotou's position, of course. I can, of course, freely announce 'neuropean'. Indeed, after his own explanations of negotiation, I feel nationally proud. Finally, after a seven - year - old tyranny, the country was released, for example in 1974. After that seven-year-old tyranny, the country is released again and feels free to breathe. Of course, this national attitude, which has been raised nowadays after the great success of the negotiation, would say that it reaches the highest level, because I am told that at the "Eleftherios Venizelos" airport next Tuesday, the Minister of National Defence will also welcome the liberators, namely the lenders, the troika, so that we can now complete this huge success, the signature and the fourth Memorandum, with a surplus of 3.5%, so that there can be a new parallel programme, the countermeasures. The countermeasures do exist. The parallel program has done it! The Deputy Minister for Labour, Mr Petropoulos, referred to this. The companies, shopkeepers and other taxes - and I am told by the business in Drama, which most of them have fled to the next country, Bulgaria, to survive, and so is the rural and livestock world in Drama, who has hardly survived - so that we can actually get the parallel programme to the countermeasures! We also saw these countermeasures, of course, during yesterday's huge presence here in the Security Councils, where they required compliance with the decisions of the Council of State, as SYRIZA was bound up with. The Minister of National Defence would resign because the decision of the Council of State would have to be implemented. The same happened in September, where there would indeed be the equivalent in order to have the opportunities for wage growth for workers in the Security Body. Of course, there would still be a resignation of the Minister of Defence, because it was his amendment, so that by the end of September 2016 the equivalents would be found and applied. So we have now entered the countermeasures. Yesterday, with great satisfaction, Mrs Kozobol to the workers' representatives in the Security Council, in their demand for the decision of the Council of State to be implemented, made an effort to discipline, that they cannot take the money from the poor and give it to those workers in the Security Body, I would say. We are now coming to this bill. I would like to make a special reference to Article 14, Minister, where, for the officials of the Internal Affairs Service, they are being reduced by one year to remain in this special service - I say this frankly, a special service - where a police officer with special qualifications is needed. I do not know what the reduction in working hours is helping to reduce the number of workers there for a year. Of course, then - in the next paragraph - of the previous paragraph, can the stay be beyond the initial three years, another three years, for one year at a time, but which should be renewed after where? For what? Isn't there an evaluation every year, Minister? There is. Why the application and the re-checking for the possibility of staying? In order to be faithful to what is happening? I don't want to believe it. I now go to Article 43 on ports. Indeed, there is a report here that the annual crises for the top officers will take place every year, so that there will be a parallel with the Armed Forces, with the Security Body. Of course, the issue that is being raised is because a month ago, just a month ago, such a regulation comes, in order to somehow create suspicion, thought, that it is being done for other reasons. And while there is a harmonisation of what applies to the Armed Forces in relation to the annual crises, there is no satisfaction with that request concerning the stay of these officers for more than thirty-five years, while in the draft law given for consultation, there was. Why have these high-level officers been removed? The same goes for the Armed Forces and the Police and the Firefighting. Why this warning difference? And why is it said that after the crises, this arrangement will come? Is the intention to "retire" those who are not good with SYRIZA? Because, indeed, the President of the Association of Officials of the Port Authority seems not to belong to you. And, of course, that is their purpose, because it is 30 years old and it will have to be repudiated. You have found a decent way, unfortunately, to remember yourself and repeat it constantly and permanently. This, unfortunately, is the reality and you don't remember anything new. Repeat the old-fashioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u297	Mr Kegeroglu has the floor from the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u298	I'll talk to you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u299	Have you changed?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u300	We're asking her now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u301	Hey, when are you asking for it? Anyway, Mr. Constantinople...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u302	It's okay, Mr. President, I'll speak. Let me point out the 'big success' of the Bureau today - it does not concern you personally - which the first speaker managed to start at 16.00, with constant violations of the Rules of Procedure, such as that which I pointed out when Mr Cremastinos presided over, that he gave the floor to the Minister in spite of the Rules of Procedure with the rapporteurs and before the first six speakers, as stated in the Rules of Procedure. And misinterpretations in this particular case don't exist. This has then caused - and rightly so - the issue of the position of parliamentary representatives and we have reached this point. But that is not a point of order. It's a matter of management by the Bureau. I pointed it out. It's okay. Once again the Rules of Procedure will be observed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u303	Mr. Kegeroglu, let me interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u304	Don't interrupt me. When I'm done, you'll see. I'm talking about it in my time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u305	No, I'll interrupt you. You are well aware - although you have said so - that the Bureau since this morning, as far as the procedure is concerned, has been clear. Now, if some people wanted for their own reasons, whether personal or any other reason, intervening, for example, with the previous President, to create all of the things that have been created, this tiny tension - let me say the word - it is not my concern, as is the Bureau. Please continue. Keep your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u306	Look, criticism of what we're saying, you can do. It does not mean, however, that we have to agree on an issue that you do not know, because you were not even in the Chamber. Okay, Mr. President? You weren't in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u307	Please continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u308	So let me say that the debate at all but the bill was up to now. We were talking about the three-day event after the Eurogroup, whether or not the gathering took place and why Mr Chakalotos refuses to speak. I'll just talk to you about it. But tomorrow the Prime Minister will be speaking, publishing the explanations because he agreed with the partners, and Mr Chakalotos will also know to tell the committee on Tuesday. So the pressure on Mr Chakaloto today was unfair. The draft law we are debating has, of course, two - three issues to do with a directive, and it also has a whole lot of other arrangements, which come at the request of the many ministries, which sign this draft law. So there's no beginning in this bill. We should not even ask for a vote at first reading. It's a bill without beginning. It has, of course, come to an end to the arrangements that are being made. Some of the arrangements it brings, they resolve issues, but many of them create a new regime and a new conception of things, which have to do with infringement of procedures and, of course, with provisions that are controlled for their unconstitutionality. I will be placed in specific provisions, such as the one mentioned by the municipal police officers who are now, retrospectively, coming the state and telling them that: 'You must be 40 years old to go here or there'. I think that this limit should, at least, go to 50 five, such as the original regulation, so that the rights of the people they have declared do not be lost, since there is the so-called continuity in the Greek state. The regulation that concerns - one month ago - the crises of the port officers, I think it does not only bring to the fore the pretext of its feasibility, but is its intention to intervene in this process. We denounce her. We have tabled an amendment to the effect that the rest of the House should have the same effect. And, of course, we expect the crises from which the very truth will be established. Let me refer to the amendment we have tabled on the extension of poverty structures. When the previous extension, recommended by the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Interior, was until 28 February, we said clearly that this deadline is not enough. And it is not enough why the municipalities will not have been able to serve both the community centres and the other co-operating organisations so that there can be a continuity in this work that concerns the social grocery stores and all the structures that support the weakest. This means that on Wednesday that there are no structures and until they are staffed - in April or May - we will have a huge problem in this area. The Minister for Labour said: "They will now have the social income of solidarity." Requests are made. It's gonna be late for the payout. So they won't have that for the time we're talking about. We therefore call for this extension of poverty structures to be accepted by the end of May, so that we can meet the needs that exist so that there are no gaps. I now come to the amendment we have tabled concerning both the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Rural Development. In view of the view of a Secretary-General of the Ministry of Rural Development this year - not legally, but in theory the possibility of the Ministry of Rural Development being able to supply insecticides to combat forests. Unfortunately, we have reached the ultimate point where the international competition can take place so that, given that there are some materials for the first time, we can prevent the spraying from taking place. In this sense we have tabled this amendment, which states that the Ministry of Rural Development is responsible for the supply of materials and, of course, all the rest, of course, it is the responsibility of the staff and the programme to collectively combat the torch, which is the responsibility of the regions. If we do not have this regulation immediately, with the fact that we do not have legislative work next week, the dates for the international competition will be forbidden to carry out a homicide and olive cultivation, Mr President, will be put at great risk. In this sense, I would ask the Ministry of Interior - and Mr Poulakis and the Ministry of Rural Development are also aware - to consult to accept this amendment and to run the international competition from the Ministry of Rural Development that has the know-how. And next year, as some people want - either regions or anything - let it happen. And I close with two remarks. One is the regulation that comes up for the TWGs, which has too much positive and solves issues. I think, however, that a working party needs to be set up so that we can see more widely the TWG institutional framework so that we do not have the phenomenon. We had them in the municipalities and the TWGs, the collective bodies didn't want them, because the municipalities really couldn't serve them. We now take them to the regions and a communication came out of the regions that: 'We do not want him as supervision'. When the arrangements are made in such a way that they do not exist in consultation, we have such problems. I conclude with a point of morality concerning Mr Vardakis, who came to the Chamber. If he didn't come, I wouldn't say so. Last week we went on the initiative of Mr Dannelly, the three of us at the Ministry of Civil Protection, and we discussed a serious issue. I have therefore taken up, following the consent of the Ministry and other colleagues, to make an amendment, the draft of which I shall be tabling in the Minutes for it to be present, which I have forwarded to Mr Vardakis to be tabled as we had agreed. The names are in order, Socrates Vardakis first, Vasilis Kegeroglou second and Spyros Danelis third. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So I asked him: 'Mr., what happened?' It says to me: 'I have tabled it'. I am surprised to see that he has tabled the amendment with his name only. This issue is personal, huge. Let's change a party, Mr. Bardakis, at least! This thing can't be done. Let me know. That is not a moral issue. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u309	Mr President, I ask for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u310	Mr Katsotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u311	Mr President, it has been mentioned three times in my name.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u312	What's suddenly happened to you? Mr. Vardakis, what do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u313	Mr President, after Mr Katsotis I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u314	I think that these issues could be resolved and settled outside the House. Please, let's untie them outside the hall. You're also short-sighted from Heraklion, both or three. Untie them outside the Chamber. I think you don't have to. Mr Kattotis, you have the floor. The Minister's waiting too. He wants the Minister to leave.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u315	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u316	Ms. Manolakou, what do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u317	Mr President, for a minute, I would like to say that the time is 16.00 p.m. and the programming you have made was that we will be over at around 21.00 p.m. But the Minister, who has the responsibility of this bill, has not told us what parliamentary amendments he accepts. He has to tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u318	That's right. Minister, I ask you sometime to take the floor. You may precede Mr. Famelou, but we'll solve this. Let's start, Mr. Katatotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u319	Today we have escaped the measures and countermeasures that would allegedly have a financially neutral impact on the people as the government officials have been advocating all these days. We went to what the Minister of Finance said today that some will lose, so the masks fell before the King Carnival burns. The working people are coming to see in the face of the new measures which you are preparing and which are barbaric and which will have an impact on many aspects of the lives of workers and the people. But we need to recognize you the great ability you have, which did not have other political powers, to present the black as white. So, as Mitsotakis used to say "zero plus zero makes us fourteen", and you say that collective redundancies, the abolition of personal differences from pension recalculation and a number of other arrangements that are ahead, that these will have no impact, will be neutral. Because you will get a thousand today, but in a long time you will return them either by VAT or by some other way. But are you all right? Are you swinging your head, Mr. Papadopoulos? If you are cut out a month by personal difference, by pension, by recalculating 100 euros a month, will they give you 100 euros a month?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u320	Please, Mr Katsotis, do not refer personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u321	The people have stopped listening to you, they don't trust you for that they are on their way. You abolished your thirteenth pension and fourteenths, abolished the CSCE, gave you a one-off allowance, and you baptized it in the thirteenth pension. So now with the new measures you want to take. We ask, Mr Minister: will you legislate on collective redundancies, yes or no? Tell us here and show yourself to the workers and the people. Will you abolish the personal difference resulting from the recalculation of pensions, yes or no? What are you committed to? Clearly tell the retired people what will happen. Are you going to reduce the tax on the workers, yes or no? And how much? 6,600, 6,000, 5,000? Will the cutter be extended to wages and pensions, yes or no, and for how long have you been committed? Will the bloody surpluses that we have had so far and how many years? Yes or no? How much are you committed to this, too? Will you, gentlemen, bring in a debate on the proposal for a law of the trade unions tabled by the JRC here for collective agreements, to restore the minimum wage of EUR 751 and all the rest? When are you gonna bring her? Why haven't you brought her yet? You're going to institutionalize a subsidized salary? Minister, we had the debate here, when you were Minister of Labour, on the EUR 751 and said you would bring it. Unfortunately, we have again been confirmed. Not only did you not bring him in, but you're already talking about underpaid wages. So these are the measures that are before us. We believe that the government can no longer make fun of it. He tried all the time to get the consensus, the tolerance of the people to the measures. However, today workers are increasingly deciding to write in their trade unions and take part in the struggles they are developing. The rallys that took place the other day showed that workers, pensioners, self-employed, poor farms, young people and young people are becoming increasingly involved, no matter how much you try to keep them from participating. As far as the draft law is concerned. Gentlemen, the JRC's not getting into capitalist molds. The working class is boiling and will break the bourgeois corset. There's no other way. It will move on the path of liberation from the monopolies rhetoric. This is the system that you all support, and in this regard you are adapting today with the draft law implementing the European Union Regulation, the capitalist states for political parties, parties that will support the sovereignty of capitalists, who will move to the permitted limits, which will act to meet their needs, their own requirements, parties that incorporate, manipulate the workers and the popular strata, who will prioritise the priorities of capital, as they do today. What they fear is the Communist parties. They do not want action to resolve the basic conflict between capital and work, which is the abolition of the exploitation of human beings. No matter what measures the civil order of each country and all of them together, they are not invincible. Power is in the working class, the producer of wealth, which is the only class that can lead to progress, to a higher type of democracy. The socialisation of the means of production, the central planning, which will serve to satisfy the needs, with participation and labour control, is the response to today's rhetoric of monopolies, barbarism and their wars. We have tabled three amendments, Mr Minister. It's for S.H.I.E.L.D. You recognize that unemployment is too high. Today they are engaged in programs in the municipalities. Why do you not accept our amendment, which we say should continue to work, while this employment is said to be the case in the private sector? Why not the municipalities? The second amendment we have tabled. People have been kicked out by some municipalities. They did not apply this arrangement. Why not accept our amendment so that they will not be regarded as fired and can come back, Minister? What agreement have you made with these mayors of the four municipalities? I guess there hasn't been any consultation. We are also talking about the extension of contracts and their conversion into indefinite periods. Are we going to have the same thing as the cleaners? Hasn't this story gone too far with the contractors? Haven't there been too much public sector money, with a deep exploitation of these workers, with uninsured work, with unpaid and all that we all know, but are we still silent? We therefore believe that these amendments should be accepted because they satisfy the needs of the workers and provide a solution to this unfair, medieval employment relationship they have had so far.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u322	Thank you, Mr. Katsotis. We will give the Minister the floor to put him on the amendments. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u323	Thank you, Mr President. The following ministerial amendments are accepted: The amendment with a general number of 930 and a special 9, which concerns matters of competence of the Ministry of National Defence, the amendment with a general number of 931 and a special number 10, concerning the amendment to the provisions of Law 4412/2016, the amendment with a general number of 932 and special 11, which concerns matters of the regulation and operation of the management bodies of the Financial Stability Fund, the amendment with a general number of 935 and a special number 14, concerning the payment of allowances to the municipal district of Lesbos, the amendment with a general number of 940 and special 19 for the chairmen and Vice-Presidents of the independent authorities and the amendment with a general number of 942 and a special number 21 concerning the extension of exemption from the production of proof of tax and insurance information for the Organisation of the Grand Music. I am not talking about what I supported. There's no, I guess, need. They've been documented. Do you want me to say the ones I supported? Can I repeat them?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u324	Just say the numbers, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u325	I repeat, then. These are the following amendments: Amendment No 936 and special 15, Amendment No 939 and Amendment No 18, and Amendment No 941 and Amendment No 20. The following amendments are also accepted: Amendment Nos 924 and 3, which deal with financial grants to the Kefalonia Region and also with Amendment No 934 and with a specialist on the Committee on Culture. I would like to mention half a minute on the issue of fraud, so that no kind of turmoil is created. The same procedure will be followed this year in previous years. We have also contacted the relevant Ministry, the Ministry of Rural Development, and there is currently no need for a further amendment. The same procedure will be followed. Also, in relation to what Mr Katsotas mentioned before on behalf of the KKE...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u326	Catalan.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u327	Catalan, Catalan, it's important to understand. But I recognise your sensitivity and I will not repeat this mistake. You mentioned the need to have an amendment to appeals for workers who have been made at the moment. But can we prejudge the court decision? You can't do that. It would be like substituting the judiciary.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u328	Why should it not be implemented by the municipalities?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u329	This thing can't be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u330	That is not the case, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u331	From that point on, of course, there is a specific amendment to that effect today, which leaves no margin for any mayor not to pay or to prolong contractors. I think that is absolutely clear and we do not have to go back. They are not the mayors who judge the constitutionality or unconstitutionality of an amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u332	Good. Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u333	Mr President, may I have the floor for a legislative improvement?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u334	Mr. Famelos had asked for the floor. If there is no objection from the Minister, you will take the lead.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u335	No objections, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u336	Mr. Toska, you have the floor to testify to the legislative improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u337	This is a legislative improvement, Mr President, which has, of course, also been discussed in committee. It concerns the Internal Affairs Service and it refers to the police officers who are already serving in this service, for whom their stay in the service is not differentiated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u338	All right, put it in the Minutes too, so it can be distributed to Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u339	Mr. Femelle, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u340	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present and support Article 42 of your draft law, which amends paragraph 2b of Article 1 of Law 4014 on Environmental Licensing. This regulation incorporates the Directives of the European Union 92/2011 and 52/2014 into Greek law and enables Member States to exempt projects from the provisions laid down in the Directive in exceptional cases. It is an exception to environmental licensing. The current form of paragraph has now excluded civil protection projects, civil protection actions and waste recovery or disposal projects. This is a special exception. However, this was neither the spirit nor the letter of the directive nor the needs of our own policy on environmental licensing. This regulation is thus amended and we are exempting from the environmental licensing procedure only cases of exceptional civil protection needs, in fact, for a specific period of two years. We do not need to exclude waste projects from the environmental licensing process, first of all, because we want safe procedures to be done, because these projects need to be financed and completed and the country does not pay environmental fines, which amount to tens of millions of euros from the delays that Greece has had so far, and at the same time, because we have already authorised all regional environmental impact studies throughout Greece. Therefore, there is also the environmental licensing framework and the solid waste process is organised on the basis of and environmental rules. So, for the projects that correspond - if you like - in exceptional cases and combined with the declaration of an area in an emergency, there is an exception for environmental licensing, which also corresponds to the European directive, where there is an urgent and essential requirement for the implementation of the project, a failure to build them at an earlier time and when all environmental licensing procedures cannot be complied with. But what happens in these cases? We are necessarily considering whether there is any other impact assessment procedure, informing the public of what is available estimates and studies and informing the European Commission at the same time to avoid fines against our country. I think that this is how we create greater safety in environmental licensing, and that is why we are reducing the exceptions, and we are not giving up anything on environmental protection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u341	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Independent MEP George - Dimitrios Karras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u342	Thank you, Mr President. Finally, it seems that legislating is a really difficult issue for each government. So today we have a bill, which begins with good intentions, the European political party. It tells us in the second chapter that government work will be accelerated in terms of the responsibility of the Ministry of Interior. We say, 'We're going well.' I'm opening it. I'm reading it. Simple management, current management and completely reckless. So what's he doing? I have already been on several occasions in committee making my remarks. It shall restate the issue of immunity to civil servants if they are violating the law. But it does not specify to us whether this is the case when they are violating the law and turning against the public interest or simply to be good, we should provide the legal arsenal and legal staff of the public to support them. I would like to remind my fellow Members that when a civil servant, a civil servant, a civil servant, is referred, one thing will be at his expense: the violation of official crimes or the general violation of duty. If they're devotion, we'd better see if they're third parties. But when the prosecutor prosecuted a civil servant, a state official, we should always look at what he did. Because at the end of the day, we will hope for lawlessness and immunity. It is therefore a provision within this draft law, which for me raises concerns about its feasibility. It doesn't matter. Let's move on. I have made an effort to the committees, because I think, ladies and gentlemen, that a bill should also have an effectiveness in a time of crisis and difficulties. I will not go into the debate this time if on Monday the Eurogroup was good or bad. I will say that we as a parliament at the moment and, in particular, the government in particular do not bring very few areas to open up those mountains that can bring income and wealth to the country. I therefore give the example at the moment: Good, the Local Association of Municipalities of Attica has asked that no employee of the Ministry of Interior be involved in the committees to resolve the tax disputes of the municipalities. Why? He obviously wanted to get out of state hug. I do not reject this because we have at the bottom and an independence and an entity of local government. I have therefore found reason in Article 18 of the bill, where the relevant provision was amended, to simplify the provisions in force, to call for the tax differences between municipalities to be resolved to a degree, to a degree, by the municipalities themselves, so that, on the one hand, there can be a clearing of cases and, on the other, there can also be a collection of claims or a liberalisation of the tax imposed. So I said the simple thing: as the Ministry of Finance has a preliminary stage, the so-called alleged appeal, let us bring it to the municipalities. I did not call it an unambiguous appeal, I did not give the meaning of a dispute to be resolved. I followed the same line, which concerns a compromise solution to tax disputes. The municipalities today after the restriction with ‘KALIKARAT’ have huge entities. Their number and services are such that they can deal with and settlement of disputes. I proposed that the administrative authority, the prerogative, should be dealt with administratively at the request of the person concerned, so that we have an alternative solution to the differences between municipalities in relation to taxation and a speed. I have to tell you something else. If we see what the municipalities are collecting today or rather what they have - they have a great deal of taxation - we will see that they have to solve them there on the ground so that they can collect resources. Otherwise, we are most of us lawyers and know that we will go to court, the administrative court will be timed and the god has whether these obligations will be met and given that there is usually not much pressure from the point of view of local government for recovery. So I've been waiting for this. I want to remind you that it was a country's obligation because I did not invent it. It says the convention signed by the major parties in August 2015 on alternative methods for resolving disputes. The government has been silent. I have become tiring and persistent in the committees, but the government has been silent today when I expected it to give a way out on this issue on others. Following that, ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that there is no intention of dealing with serious issues. There is only an intention to manage and settle current commitments and let the country be drawn. Because the country is actually drifting from now on. Even if you want me to make a political comment, what was presented on Monday as a great success, at least in my own perception, is that we have swimped in blush waters without knowing. It's okay. Protest, Mr. Comrade. I accept the criticism and accept it all. I'm having a dialogue, if you like.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u343	Mr. Carras, I'm sorry to interrupt. The colleague has not been misled by what you have said. It was with the Bureau that they agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u344	Forgive me. It's my misunderstanding. So I will go ahead because dialogue is a good thing to me personally. I never reject him, even if he is critical yet, because it will enable me to improve some of my thoughts or some intention. So I'm coming back. I said I feel like we've been swimming in blurred waters since Monday. Is that a solution to the country's problems? Why is it a solution? Aren't they, gentlemen, because you see what we've lived in this Chamber today? The confrontation between the parties, the rivalry that ultimately does not improve, because as long as we are late, where do we get? As long as we are late, we are reaching new commitments from the country and new measures. I think, then, that the political forces - I do not include myself in them, because I am an isolated voice, it doesn't matter, let me be heard at all, it doesn't matter, it doesn't hurt, at least let me the optimism to think that it doesn't hurt - to find the boldness and take the responsibility of moving forward in front of bills today - I don't talk about the whole - and some provisions that I don't comment on, because it's not about progress, it's about regression. The ones included in this bill are for maintenance, management. Make your decisions, gentlemen, because otherwise in the blurred waters we will continue to be. Thank you for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u345	Thank you. Mr Anastasios Pratsolis from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u346	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, with this bill and its provisions, certain issues are being dealt with and necessary arrangements are made for the conditions for the functioning of European political parties in our country and how they operate. However, there is also a need for rationalisation and a settlement and updating of some issues, in order to achieve better functioning and efficiency of services and structures. In this context, we will also try to solve many distortions and imperfections of Mr.3852/2010, as otherwise called "Kalikratis", with the multi-project to come in the next period in Parliament. I mention, for example, some of the arrangements of this draft law, each of which has its own value and importance. An important regulation is the one in Article 15 concerning the promotion of the exceptional extension of the time limits for the adoption and suspension of revocational commitments for the financial year 2015. It is attempting to remedy the problem that has arisen with the deadlines for the adoption and suspension of the investigations, since some LAGs have failed to comply with them so that they can be issued and put up in time in the 'DIAGY' programme, thereby making it difficult for their financial function. Article 20 concerning the maintenance of the 2% rate for the payment of fees for the local administration of businesses operating in casinos, but also of the casino companies themselves, financially strengthens the municipalities' funds, which are, ultimately, for the benefit of local communities. Article 25, which has been made a long time ago, stipulates that the cleaning costs of public buildings and services arising from individual contracts are considered to be legitimate and are, as a matter of priority, determined by the revenues of cleaning charges. It is certainly in the right direction, since this ensures a smooth flow in terms of the costs involved, while benefiting local communities. On this point, I would like to emphasise again in relation to what is being heard in committee, but also in plenary, by colleagues from the Anti-Population Committee on supposedly racist arrangements that - to say so many times again - we are discriminatory in favour of workers' rights regardless of their party, political origin. That is perhaps our difference, because - and you must know - we are talking about workers hired by mayors, who are mostly unreserved to the SYRIZA today. It would still be a omission to refer to the provisions of Article 17 concerning the inclusion of the Nationality Directorate in the Directorate-General for Electronic Governance and the strengthening of its staff, the provisions of Article 32 for the conversion of unpaid mortgages into half-wages and Articles 33 and 34 for the conversion of the Code of Judicial Officers by reducing half the annual contribution paid by the curator to their associations and extending public contracts respectively, which are also an OTA request. In tabling the Ministerial Amendment incorporated into this Article, Article 48 may grant the municipalities a grant from the programme's financial resources to pay their immediate unpaid obligations to individuals arising from final judicial decisions and payment orders. Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened carefully to the views of colleagues from the New Democracy and Democratic Incorporation in the committee responsible, but also in plenary, and I was really impressed by the way some articles of the bill characterised as rhysphemics and indeed, some references, such as Mr Vorides, are being successful in CSCE competitions that are still waiting to be hired. It is really strange, because if it means the successors of the 1998 or 2007 AASP, which people waited 20 and ten years respectively for them to be justified, they are, of course, vindicated by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, since in the meantime many positions that were in the notice had been sorted out in a magical way. As for the Rusphetological Policy you give the Government, I would give you some advice. Don't look too much at their own mirror. One more thing is that you really are listening to representatives of PASOK and the New Democracy - and even to our fingers - to increase unemployment, to weaken the people, to apply cruel austerity, and all that with the responsibility of SYRIZA and the governance of the two years. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We have received a 25% reduction in the country's wealth in the five years of your governance and unemployment at 27%. Today we are talking about an unemployment of 23% and that is called an increase? I would say that something is wrong with your arithmetics, because we have heard that the surplus of 4.5%, decided by the previous government, is less than 3.5%, which we are discussing today. At some point we should definitely say truths in here. Ladies and gentlemen, following up the news of the day and seeing the discomfort of the Reconciliation as a whole, but also the lack of a account of the Officerial Reconciliation on the country's prospect, I would like to stress that the government's effort to get out of the crisis, with the least burdens on the citizens, is a primary issue for us. The desperate attempt of counterpopulation to drag the country into elections, which would automatically mean destabilisation and fiscal derailment, is being conspicuous. The decision at the recent Eurogroup meeting of 20 February opens the way, a difficult and painful one, but necessary for another policy aimed at developing and leaving the country from the crisis. Of course, we do not triumph that everything has been solved magically. It was a second step, because the first step was the very good, hopeless for many, performance of the Greek economy of 2016. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the evaluation will be closed without a question of budgetary voids and additional austerity after 2019. There will be a certain number of strange party screaming - wishing - to not close the evaluation and to go to elections, as they have been expressed at a high level by the New Democracy, by its Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, despite the suffocating edge of the present economic situation, we are trying to open up pitfalls, creating conditions for improving the daily lives of citizens and more efficient operation of structures and services. In this direction, too, this bill is moving. At the same time, we can promote the major areas which contribute to strengthening democracy, transparency and social cohesion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u347	Mr Maximos Charakopoulos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u348	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tsakalotos has been found, but, although he has spoken, he has proved to be nothing but the results of the Eurogroup. It did not make us wiser, it referred us to the Tuesday sitting in the Committee on Economic Affairs. As long as the government avoids placing itself, giving clear answers and hiding with no paper, it will drink the bitter glass. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on another bill over the last two years has taken place in conditions of uncertainty, which have mainly created the irresponsibility, irresponsibility and inability of this government. We are all watching, citizens and politicians, a retardation recital. Now we're going for a new round after Clean Monday. Let's see how long this Sarah will be. Let's just hope that we don't hear the Prime Minister put Easter as a time point for taking off development, because that's what you promised us last year. Now we've taught you. The only criterion for all your decisions is the chairs of authority. Everything is subject to this supreme objective, regular moves, communal jaws, the undermining of the political climate, the divisive rhetoric, the lions without object. And unfortunately, the threats of a possible referendum, for grexit, for a drachma, are also included in this meaningless and destructive impression game. Everything is fully maintained by you. Your staff are reheating to keep all the doors open and what you decide is literally at the last minute, on the knee, without taking into account the damage you cause to the economy, which is once again beginning to be on the edge of the alarm, with a new bariffe lying before the gates. And yet, what the country and the economy need to stand by is exactly the opposite, credibility, certainty, calmness, that is, you don't offer, because you don't want and why you can't. But it seems that your paint has now passed. Two years were enough for the masks to fall and for the false words to be revealed. Ladies and gentlemen, what this government is really advocating is also revealed by the bill we are discussing, another memorial of carelessness, as you are accustomed to, a bill that is unspeakable, pervaded by rhysphetological provisions and the cultivation of expectations for the permanentization of thousands of our fellow citizens, for the existence of support today and tomorrow's vote. Here is the supposed moral advantage of the Left. With tricks and terraces you try to triple the ADP to help your own people, without any need hierarchy, without any dignity, with pretexts everywhere. But you create emergencies in the way you manage things. By defining two years now the phenomenon of immigration as an emergency, you are attempting to justify the exceptional recruitment and extension procedures of contracts other than those envisaged. But until when is a time-consuming problem considered extraordinary in order to have an alibi for non-criteria recruitment? On the other hand, when it comes to procedures under the law, which are well known for some time, you are suffering from selective amnesia and confusion, as in the case of five-year obligation fire extinguishers. There, without any emergency, you have managed to drive them into a three-year hostage, with the extension of the uncertainty of their permanentisation. The way you are thinking is also revealed in the case of arrangements for municipal police officers who have remained in ELAS, and you have re-established the Municipal Police. The right thing would be to enlist three hundred young police officers with incomprehensible, meritable procedures through the pan-Hellenic examinations, which do not call into question. Young police officers who will have the age requirements to contribute to the security of the citizens, need the police and not such arrangements. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill finds opaque elements, such as the exclusion of rents for housing services of the EEA by the current provisions on housing services of public services. You do this without a safety net, no square meters, no maximum rent. Who serves this foggy landscape? Definitely not transparency. The rules relating to the Internal Affairs Service, such as the rules governing the transfer of geographical office from the second party to the second party, raise a reasonable number of questions when internationally the criteria for the selection of police officers operating such units are only the highest standards of professionalism. We have also not received a reply for three years, from eight to five years, why the time has to elapse in order to transfer to the Internal Affairs Service a police officer who has served or served in offices of the Government, Ministers, Secretary-General, Secretary-General, parties and MPs. Who will benefit from this provision will remain to be seen in the very near future. In addition, you are abolishing the availability of officials to the Internal Affairs Service after their term of office has expired at their place of interest. This was not a gift, but an incentive for attracting worthwhile staff to the service. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need a minute, Mr. President. There may have been abusive behaviour. In any case, there has been a clear legislative improvement in the sense that the new provision does not concern already servants. Finally, we have received no response so far because the autonomous services in Attica and Thessaloniki, which are directly owned by the Headquarters of Police from the services to which internal affairs officials can be transferred after their termination. While they can be transferred to the Directorate-General for Police at Attica or Thessaloniki, they are deprived of the possibility of being transferred to the Prosecutor's Economic Crime, the Electronic Crime, the Antiterrorism, the Criminal Investigation Department and the Special Police Forces Department. In any case, the state must prove its commitment to the fight against corruption in practice by supporting, advocating and exploiting the staff of the Internal Audit Service.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u349	Mr. Charakopulus, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u350	I shall conclude, Mr President. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, the government is developing in arrangements and arrangements, when the outbreaks of lawlessness are multiplying, the action of the known - unknown ones is expanding outside the 'Exarchist State', while the sense of security for citizens is sinking every day. This government is the joy of every brat. I don't know if the dozens of provocations after the hit in the SYRIZA offices will change your position. We're here! For all these reasons, Mr President, we cannot agree to voting in favour of this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u351	Mr Alexandros Triantafylliides has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u352	And if anyone wants to sanctify, they can't. I intended to speak only on Article 35, on the very important - finally - completion of the issue with the International Day of Greek Language, for which I have tabled a related proposal. However, I would like to say three things: 'You're waking up in the sip-flake'. You say the Prime Minister and the government are hiding. Why don't your Chief ask a question on Prime Minister's time? Now every Friday the Prime Minister is here giving answers. Mr Leventis has asked the question, and tomorrow he will get answers for the Eurogroup. Tomorrow at 10: 00' be here to receive specific updates, for which I see you're here. On Tuesday at 16.00 we have been invited as members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs to inform us of Mr Eukleidis Tsakalotos. So who's hiding? Secondly, we hear this fairy tale, this nice cholera for the chairs of power, when together with your partners who said "the people don't forget what it means to the right" and you said "air, air" to leave the cholera" you met as a government for the sake of the chair, for your survival and of course for the purpose of writing out scandals, corruption, complications etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u353	Now he's heard what left means!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u354	And the third joke of the day is that the left is shy. Bigger joke in here has never been heard! This government, I think, well - I will not think wickedly of saying badly - gave a solution to the successors of the 1997 SAAP when there was no SYRIZA! The successors of the 1997 ADP were now permanently settled by the Vernardakis provision and settled. Nineteen years people expected to find their point and found their point after nineteen years. Tsipras wasn't the leader of SYRIZA. There was no SYRIZA, it was a coalition. There wasn't even a procedure. I mean, it's amazing, these jokes we hear in this SYRIZA room that shyens ASAP and permanentizes the successors of 1997, nineteen years ago! However, they have chosen the role of the chillier of history - I am referring to the New Democracy - who expects to rub his hands on the corner how the government fails in the first assessment, 'not succeeded, the revenues will fall', they have not dropped the costs, '3% will reach over-come', 'they will be dealt with in relation to the evaluation or they will not be done,'they will leave or they will not leave', 'the government will fall, there will be elections' and so on. All this is heard and along the way we have reached twenty - five months and daily this type of myths really swallow. I do not want to go on with this because I have already consumed three minutes from my speech. I am tabling the proposed legislative improvement of Article 35, which refers to the authorizing provision for the International Day of Greek Language, with a view to highlighting and promoting, in particular, national, social, philosophical, cultural or other issues, Minister, Mr Skourletis, which I have given you. I am talking about the specific legislative improvement, the recasting of which I propose, for the history of which is about the protection, strengthening and promotion of the Greek language and Greek-language in the international community, culture, education, letters, arts, communication and the Internet. I'm tabling it in the Minutes for history. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Alexandros Triantafyllidis, presents for the minutes the proposed legislative improvement, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice.]] Now let me say we don't need another anniversary. And beyond the Eurogroup of numbers, budgetary debts, deficits, there is a Eurogroup - I do not know if it is intended - to evaluate and value values, principles, cultures and behaviours. And finally this is this process, as the unspeakable teacher Christos Tsolakis said - and it is directly linked to this authorized provision, in order to define a World Day of Greek Language and we do not need yet an anniversary, but we need what condensates and defines our national identity, which is our language - the limits of our speech are the limits of our world. And Christos Tsolakis says: “Conscience therefore means consciousness of thought. Conscience of language immunity means consciousness of mindlessness. That's why the languages are on people's boots, they're high with the scaling and they're shrinking with the shrinking of people's thoughts and cultures. It is not possible to promote cultures and thoughts and languages. This and its vice versa are excluded.’ I put it in the Minutes, too. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Alexandros Triantafyllidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As I said, this article can be understood as a yeast and a nucleus, around which an entire effort can be built to promote Greek-language, Greek-language and Greek culture according to the standards of English-language and French-language. That is why I shall be tabling four reports on ways of disseminating French-language and English-language. The first relates to an extract from the cultural agenda of the French Institute of the current quarter, January - March 2017. It summarises the events held in March 2017 for the day that has been set as a world day of French-speaking, including the French-speaking Film Festival in Athens and Thessaloniki. The second initiative concerns the opening of an international French-language competition for students, as illustrated on the Greek website of the French Embassy of Athens. The third is the passport of the big round of Franco-Gallossy 2017, under the auspices of the President of the French Republic François Holland. Why does France pay so much attention to language? All events planned are described there. Fourthly, a text from the Commonwealth website in relation to English. I'm closing, with one, two issues, Mr. President. The French have established a Ministry of Development and Gallomony. The man who deals with economic sizes, at the same time also tries to strengthen the French language throughout the world, because he knows that where language passes, that is, culture, cultural goods, and investment, economic intervention, synergies, cooperation, etc. This 'weapon' we have, our language, unfortunately, have left it inactive for decades. So what I'm proposing is an international committee. I have the right to do it. I suggested it in my speech on government's programming statements in September 2015...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u355	Mr. Triantafylide, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u356	I shall conclude, Mr President. Thank you for understanding. It is important, however, that this matter be raised. Just to note this: there is this international committee of personalities for France. Do you know who participates in this international personalities committee that supports the French language all over the world? Director Costas Gavras, who has also been honored by the Greek state with his participation in the board of directors of the Foundation of Greek Culture. If this says something about how we need to ensure that this very important World Day of Greek Language and Culture does not end up and simply turn out to be a nice occasion for five speeches to be written and that five ballions are played for how much Greece loves and how much Greece beats in their hearts. To make the yeast and the core of this article, this particular joint ministerial decision, so that something similar can be built here too - we do not have to look into it - with English and French. Whatever they did. Do it like they did. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u357	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u358	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u359	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u360	I would like to say that the parliamentary amendment is accepted under a general number 923 and a special number 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u361	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u362	Mr President, I would like to table a legal improvement in paragraphs 1 and 2 of Article 45. There's a recast. I don't have to read it. It's being filed in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister, Evangelos Apostolos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned legislative improvement, which reads as follows:]] CHANGES SEL To enter 348 CHANGES SEL.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u363	Mr Odysseus Constantinople has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u364	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a bill of eight ministries, many ministerial and parliamentary amendments with provisions, as our rapporteur has said, which conceal 'the facilities'. And as I see the Minister for Rural Development, I would like to tell you that our resignation from the day the bill started raised an issue on Article 35 concerning pesticides, which you withdrew, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u365	Are you following me when I talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u366	Will you watch what I'm saying? I'll be in position, and then you'll be in position. As far as I know, you withdrew it. This is the second time that this article has been withdrawn and, of course, as you can see, it is possible to sell hay, but expelled pesticides are not done because they are public health issues for the farmer and the citizen. On the key issue of the negotiation, Mr Tsakalots came here, who told you something, colleagues of the SYRIZA: 'What I am doing is collectively responsible'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u367	He didn't tell us. He told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u368	He told you. Collective responsibility! And you know why he told you that? He told you, because Mr Tsakalotos haunts him the ghost of Mr Varoufakis' course. He is afraid that some time you will be emptying him and that is why Mr Chakalotos talks about collective responsibility. [[Laughers from the wing of SYRIZA]] And of course, you are collectively responsible for what you are going to vote on in the next few years. SYRIZA's colleagues, I hear some of you in the last few years saying: "The mistake that we have thrown the previous government, the negotiation of Baroufakis, the mistake of confrontation with Kammenos." Wrong one, wrong the other, I'm afraid we've ended up being the mistake and the problem of the country's course. And I expected, as Mr Kammenos said, 'four' to vote, but 'four' to beg PASOK, I didn't believe it either!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u369	Is that what they told you?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u370	I heard Mr. Friend again today telling us to continue together. And I tell you to consult each other, tell Mr. Friends what you want to do. Ladies and gentlemen, today when we are talking about this bill, there is the sale of the 'National Insurance' by the third unnecessarily recapitalisation of the banks. I didn't see you being out of the National Bank, in which you sell out a company that has profitable since 2010! And you're making the way to private insurance on the worst terms. And where? The companies that have come and offered offers have nothing to do with the European market. That's what you're doing today, but I didn't see any of you being there. That's what you've been through. And because you've gotten over everything, I want to tell you that at least when you're criticizing some of you - I don't want to say names for the past - remember that you might have been in these parties at that time. I heard a former Member of Parliament who criticized for ten years ago and was a member of a ruling party! At least one respect! The whole world may not know you, but we know each other here, and we know what role each one had ten years ago and why he went to SYRIZA today. [[Noise in the Chamber]] May I finish, ladies and gentlemen? I will finish with two comments. I watch the opposition and all of us criticise what the government says: 'A euro will be taken and a euro will be delivered to you'. Well, here people said they would delete the debt and break the memoirs, and your problem is that a euro will be taken and a euro will be given? Finally, I would like to raise two points. Firstly, today we have had a victory of democracy, the victory and the acquittal of Mayor Patras, Mr Peletides, against the Golden Dawn, against those who sing "Germany above all". [[Laughing From the Golden Dawn Wing]] And I'm ending with you, ladies and gentlemen. Today I heard Mr Kuveli say that he voted and will vote again. I want the voters who voted and who will vote again SYRIZA - they will be few - to know that they will have a name now, the name 'Photis Kouvelis'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u371	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. It is good, however, not to make such personal reports. Mr. Fotillas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u372	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I pointed out last week in the Ministry of Education's bill that, in fact, the ways in which you are working to legislate and before you speak three times, you confirmed me. You have brought us to discuss this issue with various ministries, putting the Community directive on figurative form to the fore. Of course, the culmination of this 'currant' bill is Article 38, which provides for the appointment of officials, even for an indefinite period. In Mr. Flambury's office, what he told us a few days ago that the government has done miracles and that people are no longer hungry. If the man doesn't have any gum... And, of course, eight ministerial amendments have also been tabled and there are plenty of services to them. You're consistent. I'm taking your hat off on this. You are faithfully serving the one and only authority to which you have sworn since the first day of your election and which is summarized in the phrase: "I sign everything and arrange for everyone I can afford, even illegally, to stay in my chair as long as I still have". We have also seen this in the agreement so that the troika you celebrate can come. We lived to see that, too. The Tsipras - Kammenos government - and Mr Papadopoulos, I see - celebrates the troika returns. Well done, Mr. Papadopoulos! From ‘Go back, madame Merkel’, we arrived at ‘Please, come back, madame Delia Velculescu’. They have all realised that fetish is no longer duty-free, as your Secretary-General told us. It's just your chair. But I'm going back to the bill. You are trespassing on the Constitution and the Court of Auditors' suggestions in Article 25, putting cleaners in front of them and bypassing the ASA. Do you really remember what happened with the TV licenses? We were telling you about unconstitutionalism and then you were telling us - with Mr Tsipras first - 'not even one in a million'. They'll have the same luck as you do at the Ottas, because they're unconstitutional. In front of you, you'll find it. In fact, do not hope to be taken by Mrs Thanos, because our judges have proved they don't chew. Even in the regulations of Article 21 on bus fuels in municipal transport, you legislate so that there are no limits on expenditure overruns. In other words, you are even legalising cannabis illegality. That's who you are. But nothing anymore makes us impression from your political life. We've learned you well now. You were negotiated and we stayed with closed banks and capital controls. You have negotiated and paid tuition fees for your learning of EUR 100 billion. You negotiated and brought us, through Mr Katrugalos, an insurance abortion, a levelling-off for the free traders and the small and medium-sized ones. You negotiated and the country is struggling to reach where it was in 2014. Now you're saying that you're negotiating and you're going to prejudge toughness measures in tax free, work and pensions, in exchange for only promises. The result is specified. Looking for desperate ways to forge the new extermination measures that you are ready to legislate. But what right do you commit to the next government? Or are you preparing, when you're opposition, to denounce what you'll have privileged? Because I've got you capable of that too. Ladies and gentlemen, various policy actors, "Leventis", who, acting as the harlots of Mr. Tsipras, have suggested that measures should come with prerequisites for eighty votes, so that New Democracy and Cyriakos Mitsotakis can be declared arrogant. What does that mean? Does it mean that if Mr. Tsipras brings measures with a prerequisite of eighty, the Centro Association will vote on them? But, at the same time, they say they're not going to vote. So, what do they want to understand? Great consensus, but only with the votes of others? No seriousness! And well the various 'Leventes', Mrs. Gennimata, but where is she going? I was amazed to read in her Sunday newspaper interview. He said he was ready to lead the country in the middle of a storm in a second election, if the New Democracy does not come out of power, even though he acknowledges that this is not in the interests of the country. But it's good for the party! That said with disarming honesty. Because, as he said, the PASOK cannot continue to assume responsibility! I could talk about this for hours. I am saddened, however, by Mrs. Gennimata's unprecedented political atrocity. Since when is political alliances carried out for the benefit of parties and not for the benefit of the country through programme agreements? And if the others say so, does it go to good, but does Mrs Gennimata who, in the past, is now leading the PASOK, contribute - and I recognise it - with serious consequences for his electoral power, for trying to correct the country? Moreover, I wonder: Is a party responsible for the end date? So today, I'm in charge, tomorrow I'm tired, and I'm not in charge? But the citizens who listen to us and read us, understand and will not tolerate games on their backs. They want clean words and show it in polls, as well as in their daily lives. So, clear words from all of us. The New Democracy is not going to vote on the measures of Mr Tsipras's failed negotiation. The only real solution to save the country is to leave this dangerous government of the greatest fraudsters and liars. Only a new New Democracy government and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis can guarantee the possibility of getting out of the crisis with plan and realism. Kyriakos Mitsotakis has said that regardless of the election result he will pursue wider consensus and cooperation, but in the light of not the party, but the national interest. Needless to say, I am voting against at first, because there is no beginning in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u373	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, eighteen students and students and six school attendants from the 1st Primary School of Litochori Pieria. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Nicholas Papadopoulos has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u374	Thank you, Mr President. We had started a conversation that was going well. But what makes me impression from the New Democracy is that they are telling the greatest lies with a physics of the "nothing happened". He blames the last guy and he says about the chair and what a show we gave, who where he goes, he also carries the chair! He took her chair, seat, from the river, and took her to New Democracy. Oh, that's merciful, partner! Accuse us of going for the chair! Leave the chair and go to New Democracy, then I'll applaud you too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u375	Will you vote for the tax, Mr. Comrade?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u376	That's it! I voted for them. When you were telling the big lies here, we were here and we voted for it all. SYRIZA's government and Alexis Tsipras, we don't throw him.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u377	Reductions in pensions will be voted on?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u378	We will be here for the Greek people, standing up we will take him out of the crisis. Put it right in your mind. Now let's go to the other one.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u379	The tax-free will you vote for it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u380	I'll say it in turn. Don't tell me about the milk and the feta you were shading here! You didn't say a word. Another party is New Democracy out, another party you're here. Sarmako, they say in my village! Cuveda! Tubbeki finely chopped!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u381	You didn't go to the farmers' blocks this time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u382	You're getting tough! It's all right! I should actually like to go to the point because I am interested in the TEEs and the GEOs, which are agricultural organizations and I really want them to go forward because they are related to agricultural production. I think that very rightly the TWGs are entering a single administration. You know that the GFCMs were in the region, as were the TWGs that used to be in the regions and then took them to the municipalities. Now it's good to come back, because we're going to have a single centre. This is very good, because the municipalities have not been able to supervise the TWGs lately. I think it is very good that they will go to the region, because we will have a more general planning for the whole region. Secondly, it is clear here and how these agencies function and what responsibilities each one of them will have. Thirdly, you must know that the state budget has nothing to do with TWG and GFCF money. This is money paid by farmers. In GEB all landowners pay 1.5 euros per acre, while in TEBs there are various fees according to the use of water each user makes. So, here too, there is what they call "price" of water. Here too, we can see such forms, such as how these projects are to be done, because the contributions of farmers to be paid will be of a reward and will go to the projects as well. Fourthly, within this history, the new expression in coordination should be planned and the projects, where specific projects will be carried out, how etc. For these projects include closed circuits, rural roads, canals, canals and various such issues. So, from this point of view, it gets very well. Fifthly, the staff that these organisations need are also clear, because they need a scientific staff and a seasonal staff. Sixthly, for all utilities we should also see issues arising from the tax. Seven, all projects must be done with respect to the environment. There are also projects for which some TWGs take water from lakes, such as Smokovos, etc., because they manage these natural resources, but they also need to be maintained, but also to be compatible with the environment. What seems to be a good job, as did the Smokov dam, is actually the use of water is done scientifically and no water is lost, so it is too low the price of the user using it. I think we need an agency - not two, three - while I would prefer the GFCF to be abolished. For right now, too many farmers, who have been in debt for the past 30, thirty-five years, who have known me - no GFCM in my region has been able to do a single project. If we see, then, that in Greece it is about thirty or thirty-five million acres with about 1,5 euros, you can understand that we are talking about a huge amount, which can under other conditions and otherwise do too many big, good and correct projects. What we have to end up with - I think the government, but perhaps also the House - is to see a legal framework for the TWG, because these agencies manage themselves so that we can make our work better and have cheaper water. At the moment, then, when some say that water has no cost, I would like to say that water actually has a cost. In my own area the water drawn from the earth has about 58 euros the acre, while the freedom we say has 12.5 to 13 euros. So water costs, and it's a resource we need to safeguard. It is for this reason that projects should be carried out qualitatively and drainage. Right now, irrigation works are being done. So within this framework we see another arrangement and redeployment and forces and resources. The determining spirit in our minds is that these resources are all farmers. There's not a single euro coming in from the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u383	Thank you, my colleague. The Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr Rabbit, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u384	Starting from this bill to mention two - three things. Our special speaker, Mr. Panayotarus, has been mentioned in detail, so I will fill in some things. I have something to say about where the first articles on the Rules of Procedure of European political parties and foundations start. What's that? This is a direction that comes from the Brussels Headquarters and tells us that all political parties in Europe must agree with the lines that are being given. They express their free expression, but in Article 3 of that regulation it says that the condition that a political body can be recognised is that this body should be fully coexisted with specific principles and values of the European Union. For some principles and values, of course, such as respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law, respect for human rights, we all agree. However, there are some paragraphs that speak of the rights of minorities, tolerance and non-discrimination. Where we hear such things we know very well what is happening: it is the mingling of the other opinion and of the other opinion in a decent way, it is the ban on saying anything but those who impose everything on us. Therefore, any political body which does not submit a declaration of loyalty to Brussels's anti-national political correctness is not recognised as a political party, is deleted from the register of political parties, is subject to sanctions and discrimination, its funding is suspended, its officials are persecuted, or even imprisoned. If that means something, and if something reminds all of you democrats here, why did you all apply it before, this thing has already been done in Greece. So, after all the democracies we have seen - which we are going and bringing slowly with the salinity method in our homeland and throughout Europe of course which you want to subdue - we must also refer to Article 19, which speaks of the issue that exists in the Ptolemais, Konica, Chotyli areas that certain specific areas of the Municipal Police there take them and will be used by the relevant municipalities. That's what he says. We do not know how the municipalities will use them - we hope it will be for the good and the benefit of the local society - but we would say that these spaces could be used - especially in Konitsa, where there is a huge problem - so that there are some soldiers over there guarding the borders, guarding our homes, or as police stations - that is, the bad mess is getting in foreigners, criminals - to take care of the sense of security in these regions. Or if not - why talking about security in Greece is bad, unless it is about the offices of SYRIZA because for the rest of us, if anything happens, we are all running to protect them and it is not a bad thing - let it become a centre that will go host Greek homeless. You've done so many hot spots for illegal immigrants, you care for them, you feed them. Let there be an area with the facilities already in place so that the Greek homeless or little Greeks can go, which their families have left because they cannot feed. They cannot take care of these children and they are hundreds of examples. You humanists can do there some such centers in order to get the kids to go and to be hosted for free, to see your humanism and for the benefit of the Greeks. I'm going to end this by talking about the bill. Once again bring an amendment to the Concert Hall. You've given them hundreds of millions of euros. You're trying to set things up, cover them up. It's not coming out of you. You give them some time-limits. They are not consistent with the deadlines. You then give them an extension of these deadlines and life goes on. For the Concert Hall of Music for those of Greeks who do not know - that many do not know, although too many have learned or even begin to learn - it is as we said: Psyssms and Lambrakis. These are the children who have been forty-five years those who have done what they wanted in our country's public life, those who have made impressions, consciences and opinions. So these gentlemen with the money of the Greek state had papers, television stations, did what they wanted, had taken the Music Hall and owed hundreds of millions of euros to it and you come to cover them again with another amendment. Go out, then, officially, as a government, if you have the courage - which you do not have the courage to do such things - and say they enjoy debts. You're giving them the debts. If that's what you do anyway. You have now given them a further six months of extension so that they can be consistent with their tax obligations. It won't even be in the next six months. In the summer you brought it. You will be tabling another amendment and we will continue. And for those who do not know, the scandals and these hundreds of millions of euros have been transferred to the back of the Greek people. The Greek people will pay these scandals and money, i.e. Psychris, Lambrakis and the other "pimps" of Greek society. We had a question that was tabled before you became a government. Twenty-eight SYRIZA MPs had come out and said it was a two-party scandal that was happening, because the former New Democracy and PASOK coup d'état was scandalously covering the Concert Hall of Music. Now we can see clearly that this was not a two-party scandal. You're all company, as we've said other times and you're all covering it together. In addition to that, we should also address some issues of topicality. I want to mention features - they are not here, they were just a moment ago, but now they are retired - the unacceptable statement made by the Minister for Civilian Protection, Toskas. He came back and said about the parents in Oriokastro, who was found being trampled and beaten with lots of six para-state bums who entered school, that those who reacted now took a lesson. 'They took a lesson'. This was the answer of the Minister for Protection of the Citizens of the Greeks. A young man twenty-five years old, who has his child there or who goes to protest - his right was, he did not go to war, he went to express his different view - was found to be trampled by six retreat punks, yours. They're inside your relatives, your people who are never arrested, who if you accidentally slip and catch them, they can't do anything else by the police, and they're making an induction, in two hours they've been released. So this was the answer of the Minister, the Minister of Civil Protection. About a year ago, when incidents had occurred out here in Parliament, a false New Democracy MP had come out and said that he was beaten by chrysaugetes. This minister was yelling at the ministerial headquarters that it is a matter of a few hours, a few minutes, the arrest of these chrysalis. That's what he said and gave interviews on the TVs and, of course, a few days later, when it turned out that no golden man had touched anyone, everyone looked at the stars and said "that's what he hasn't said and done." This is the state that you have created, a state hostile to the Greek citizen, a state hostile to anyone who dares to question and disagree with what you think is right. This is the Greek state now. And that on the one hand is good, because the Greek citizen so far has not believed or may have thought that some things that the Golden Dawn says are too much. But now, with your sympathy and the statements you make and the attitude you have, the Greeks see. And they see that where you cannot enslave them with thought, where your propaganda does not pass, where you do not have them to say "yes, live illegal immigrants", there are sent the raids of the Left, the para-states, and they go to mind to Greek citizens. This is your democracy, that's what you're evangelizing. And here to come and fill out something about the Entrepreneur Monastery case, where the monastery's leader was found to be accused - hear why - for a moral automobile in dropping a molotov bomb. What's happening is a full-fledged record. This man was sentenced to 20 years in prison, to a moral automobile in a molotov, when Athens burns every day and when there is no arrest, but it doesn't even make any impression anymore, considering it as self-evident and listening to the parrots of the large media to keep making statements about these "young people". These "young people" who come out all the time, burn, pillage, these "young people" were found a few days ago in Ioannina and attacked police officers, seriously hurting two of them, sending them to the hospital and there was no induction there either. Here I would like to supplement and go back to the issue of Oriokastro, so that the Greek society can also hear how ridiculous things are in Greece, that of the six who attacked and beat this man, no one was arrested, they left, they went home, they went home, and he, who was ruthlessly beaten and on the cameras that they were hitting him, after he went to the hospital and gave him the first aid, having serious injuries, then he was arrested and went to the autofoot. This is your democracy, liars, who embarrass everything in Greece! And against what do we have? We have a New Democracy trying to make Opposition, a New Democracy trying to be, supposedly, the patriotic party in this House. This is where everyone laughs. The fracture suffered by the New Democracy a few days ago was truly terrible, when sixteen Members of Parliament dared to write a word and to submit a question to the Greek Parliament about the Tomato of the Greek nation, about the tamata that had to be fulfilled and raised a temple of God in Greece for our struggle to liberate from Turks. And what did these sixteen MPs do? They were taken by the Mitsotakis of Bilderberg, the Mitsotakis of globalisation, the Mitsotakis of the levelling, and told them that this question cannot be submitted to the Greek Parliament by the New Democracy. And they, as persuasive organs, leaned over their head. Like dazzled dogs, they took that question and disappeared. This is the New Democracy, which dares to ask and fight for nothing from the national and Greek ideals, but is fighting only for liberalism and for nothing else. She, I repeat, is the descent. Two more things I want to say. The reason why you are so fighting the Greek nation and our country is specific. Here we have an international investigation that has been done ten days ago and it is clear why you, the anti-national government of SYRIZA and ANEL, along with the other parties of supposedly counter-population - why you same ambassadors - are fighting so much the patriotism of the Greeks, because you want to level and alter our country with illegal immigrants. According to a survey carried out, in most countries they do not seem to care about where someone was born to be a legitimate citizen. In Greece, however, we are differentiated, and this figure is 50%, because he cares about the Greeks where someone was born to be Greek, when, for example, this figure in Australia is 13%, in Canada 21%, in America 32%. Greece comes in second place after Hungary. Also, in the same survey we see that Greeks consider customs and customs to be an essential factor for having the country's national identity and the Greeks at 66% say that this should be the case. Again in second place we are behind Hungary. You hide these in both Parliament and the large media. The cohesion of the Greek people, the love and faith of the Greek people for the nation, with all the disadvantages we have, for our homeland and for our orthodoxness, you fight these to the end. And by closing, the last thing asked is whether they consider the test of faith to be decisive for national identity. Worldwide, this figure was around 15% and Greece, unfortunately, was 54%. You see, then, that a Greece, which is daily bombarded with brainwashing and, where brainwashing does not pass, there is terrorism among Greek citizens, our positions, the positions of Greek citizens are those and you are in a very difficult position. I will finish by saying that today we learned something outrageous once again. We will stress that as Golden Dawn we had asked some questions about some illegal "Turkish" schools, kindergartens, operating in the region of Thrace and Komotini and our Xanthi. We had asked questions like Golden Dawn and had closed these illegal "Turkish" kindergartens, because that was where they put the children six and seven years old and they learned they were Turkish and they would be taught the Turkish language. So we did some actions about eight to ten months ago and we did four such illegal "Turkish" kindergartens, who wanted to work in Thrace. So what did the Greek state do? It decided to do so all the kindergartens of Thrace and public schools and we learned, therefore, that from now on it is starting to be officially taught by the children of Thrace, by the minority kindergartens, the Turkish language. That's what we learned. That's what you're doing! To Erdogan, who is across Turkey, who is shirking everything and wants to level our homeland, you respond by accepting the demands of the Turks, accepting these unacceptable plans, which have and forced children of Pomakoupula, who say they have nothing to do with Turkey, but say Greeks, throw them into the mouth of the wolf, in the Turks, while they want to avoid it, to learn Turkish. That's against you! We told you, however, again that after such brain washing you have done to the Greek people, the Greek people respond with these answers that they give to this investigation. The Greek people will resist, they will not allow the alteration of our country as much as they impoverish it, because with the economic impoverishment you have imposed upon them to think only of how they will get any more than 50, no more hundred in their pensions, how they will receive any benefits in order to forget the violent alteration of the Greek population, which is carried out by all of you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u385	Thank you, Mr. Rabbit. Mr Ioannis Koutsoukos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u386	Mr President, I would like the floor for a parliamentary amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u387	Mr Kutsuko, I will give the floor to the Minister for an amendment. Please wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u388	All right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u389	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u390	I would like to say that the parliamentary amendment is accepted under a general number 933 and a special item 12 on matters relating to civil servants serving at the border.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u391	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u392	Thank you, Mr President. I have to change the order of my position, Mr President, because in the past a newly appointed colleague on the right side gave him credentials from this Chamber as not having to and he chose to give credentials with an inappropriate attack on the President of the Democratic Association, Mrs Fofi Gennimata, even falsifying or saying conscientious lies that she had been mentioned in an interview that we would put the country into adventures. A colleague, who joined a party, said, who, when we took responsibility for the country not to go to non-faithful bankruptcy, stoned us from the Zappeion and legitimised the squares of the indignant for SYRIZA to create power in the bourgeoisie and become a government today. He may have made his personal choice to recover from the processes in the area of Central Left and its responsible proposal to formulate a national strategy for exiting the crisis, Mr. Folilas, and to join the logic of the "second error that is hand in hand". However, this does not, in any case, legalise him to become a parrot of those who want to make our positions consciously falsified to turn us into a corporation of one or the other of the new small blocs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that as many attacks as we have been attacked, we will insist on this line and we know that we will be pushed too much, because some people think that the position of national responsibility with which we have gone - and we have paid it - has to do with the logic of an additional adjudicating force in the parties of power. Our logic, however, is a attitude of national responsibility in order to have a political national understanding and that this should be done. The centre-left must have a strong role to play, as it seems, in the next elections. So I send him a message: we will stand firm and stand up to both the parrots and the perverts and the undersubverts. I'm coming to the bill now. This bill is a bill of pasparat. It has the provisions of the regulation on European parties, but on that side they have tied ten Ministers. Several of them have already produced this Step. What does this bill prove, ladies and gentlemen? It demonstrates the reformist poverty and the impossibility of the government to shape through the exercise of policy and the organisation of political forward-looking policies. This bill could have the title'settlings, services, demolitions', because yes, it makes some arrangements, for example the regulation of mortgages and I will refer to it. It does a number of services, however, to contractors, for example, who will not pay the tax advance or to the outdated pesticides of Mr Apostle. And of course it also demolishes certain policies that we have recently voted on here, such as the process of mobility in the public sector. I don't see Mrs. Gerovali today. So I come to one of the ministers. I shall start with Mr Kontonis, with whom we also had a controversy at the Tower because, while I asked for the floor to tell him that the mortgage arrangements were positive, even after twenty months, he put forward a statement by Mr Manatis on another subject, in order to distort our views before fifty people that we disagree.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u393	The same thing was about, Mr. Kutsuko.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u394	Even late, this is a good thing. He said that the mortgages are closed in the Tower, in Amaliada and elsewhere, and we need to resolve this until more comprehensive regulation is reached. Mr. Apostle was here just now and left. Apart from the arrangements it has made with the provisions it has in it, one of which has withdrawn, there has been one issue that we have tabled an amendment. It's the murder case. It concerns all the oil-producing prefectures of Greece, almost all of Greece, the third oil-producing country in Europe, whose production depends on the torch and its collective fight. We have all asked, together, why we have tabled an amendment today because a Secretary-General, Mr Minister, - I am referring to you now, Mr Skourletis - named Antonoglou, with his document to you and all the regions saying: 'We as the Ministry of Rural Development have no responsibility. Make the contests and all the incidents." You told us it'd be like in the past few years. We want you to clarify this because this document, which is an official government document, is signed by a secretary-general and dismissing all the previous procedures, because a competition had taken place last year and with great discounts. So we want to make it clear that the interested parties are aware that there is going to be a competition.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u395	I made it clear before. There's gonna be a competition, just like in the past few years. Ask Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u396	Good. It's accepted and I'm continuing. So you're going to float Mr. Antonoglu. I now come to questions relating to Mr Tsakaloto. We asked today a timely question for Mr Chakalotos, the hidden person in the House to tell us what happened with the negotiation. He has informed us that he is responding positively to the New Democracy request and is coming on Tuesday to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. I'll see you there. Today was supposed to be the third day of celebrations after Monday. However, they did not respond to the call for celebration by citizens, because they have realised that what they say 'net' is that some will pay, that some will lose. But I come to his amendment, Mr President. It has tabled an amendment which has been presented to us here as a mere process. Mr. Tsakalots deliberately in his explanatory statement says that it amends Law No.3864/2010, which was the law of the founding of the CFS, which SYRIZA had then fought. Mr Tsakalotos therefore amends his own provisions on the basis of which he granted the public property for ninety years to lenders and on the basis of which the lenders have control of the CFS and if the Eurogroup does not give his assent, the management is not defined. Below these malfunctions, too many quit. It can't be submissive of anyone. That's the point. As a result of this failure to operate the CFSF, the Greek State does not have significant interventions as the main shareholder of several systemic banks, in which certain minority investors are struggling. That's the truth about Mr. Chakaloto. And because there has been a dialogue with Mr Skourletis, you can give me two more minutes to discuss two important issues, in my view. On mobility, which we voted on next time, we told Mrs Gerovas that it would not be implemented, because you do not have an electronic platform. Now he comes here and legalizes all the distractions. It undermines what it itself recommended. Mr Apostle's regulation on GFCFs can solve individual issues. If, however, a deep reform does not go ahead by unifying the agencies by region, we are not going to resolve this issue. And the regulation put forward by Mr Papadimitriou - I say it very quickly, because we said that it was ten ministers - for the elections to be postponed in the chambers, is a regulation to buy time. The government should have found a way, in dialogue with the chambers, to strengthen this institution as an institution of development, especially in the region, rather than constantly deferring it. This shows an impossibility for policy making. So, in order not to abuse time, Mr Minister, as our rapporteur has said with the principle of the pasparatist bill, which does not exist, one cannot agree. Provisions with which we agree, we will vote and, of course, we will not vote for those arrangements which are of all kinds and are intended to serve different kinds of customers in the way that SYRIZA does often. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u397	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u398	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u399	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u400	Mr President, I take the floor because there was a report by Mr Koutsouko in relation to the statement by Mr Maniotis, to which I have referred. I mentioned today without naming him. The statement was about the mortgages, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u401	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u402	And it was about how they restored...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u403	There's no such statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u404	There is.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u405	I disprove you and invite you to testify.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u406	Just a minute, Mr. Kutsuko. Don't cause me...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u407	I challenge you, because you went to the Tower to deprive me of my word. But this is a parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u408	Mr. Kutsuko, just calm down and listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u409	Statement in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u410	Mr. Maniotis made a statement on the radio and even referred to the next day in all the daily press.... [[Noise from the Wing of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR]] Stop, listen. We understand you have a split. But he said here, and you are the ones who vote. Right? So, Mr. Maniotis said that the way in which the workers in the mortgages are regulated is a roustephetological mechanism of the SYRIZA. You are right to realize that no rhysphetological mechanism exists. His statement had been commented negatively by journalists on the day after the statements. But since you're asking me to testify, there's gonna be a transcript and you're going to be filed. We're totally in agreement. And I would refer you to all the newspapers, which were absolutely negative of what Mr Maniotis said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u411	Minister, it's understood. The clarification has been made.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u412	However, I am pleased that you are voting in favour of the provision.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u413	Mr. Skourletis has the floor for legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u414	They're legal about some paragraphs of Article 38.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u415	Thank you. Mr. Bukkoros has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u416	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, this is not a bill. It is the text we are debating today. These are thirty-eight Parliamentary and Ministerial Amendments and another forty-seven articles without any relevance, without any consistency that they look like with amendments. We invite you, even now, to consider and consider how you legislate. The way the government legislates is tangible proof of the way in which it governs the place, i.e. by sloppy, fragmented, without principle and, finally, unreserved. If even now you are concerned about the way you legislate, there is the possibility that, in a second year, you may also be concerned about the way you govern. However, ladies and gentlemen, since it is not legislation, this is a mockery of the Greek people, which is very much like the new fraud operation you have set up on a allegedly agreed basis without painful measures. But the Greek people have learned from their sufferings and know that lying has close legs. In fact, SYRIZA's lie doesn't have any legs. It's a bubble, which has escaped since the first day. And the Minister for Economic Affairs appeared here today, but who has failed mercifully as a governmental order. It has not brought in the Chamber and in this House any comfort, no strength, no fairy tale. It was limited to the same thousands of so-called tales of supposedly tough negotiation. And what did Mr. Chakalotos tell us in the Chamber? That he doesn't know the contents of the package. And he also shook something about eggs that break or don't break in baskets, proof that he's in complete confusion, and he's lost both the eggs and the passovers. But while we have been accusing you all this time of being addicts of the Latin American model and of the nationalist communism of Latin countries, that you are the fierce, fans, supporters of Maduro, we have always had a doubt whether it is our opposition ostrich that leads us to these findings. Honestly, I did not expect in this Chamber of democracy and freedom - particularly at this time when the Venezuelan people are raising their own Golgotha - to have voices from the Communism, which, invoking UN statistics, say that extreme poverty in Venezuela is only 5% while 15%, according to the same statistics, are looking for food waste, to tell us that Venezuela has a low debt of 30% on GDP and that a half and a million homes were built. I would also like to remind the older people that statistics were prosperous in Romania as well as in Ceausescu. And there were no homeless people. At the blocks, everyone had his house. But in his own home, in his own family, he also had from a Securitate counselor. And Chuchescu had a low debt. The country was globally isolated, though. Unemployment was low and everyone had work, but no one could leave the border of the "large prison". I do not, of course, want to remind you of the end that the happy people of Romania, in their statistics, in Ceausescu, have kept. But let's leave that. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, the lies are over. You, all together and everyone individually, are now faced with your personal and political responsibilities. As much as the ministers of the government are engaged in a psychological massage of supposedly equivalents, with the so-called reductions and the zero fiscal footprint, you will be invited to decide on captivity for many years of the Greek people with your vote. These are measures beyond the programme. It is clear that we are talking about a new, lasting memorandum. And don't forget, ladies and gentlemen, that the painful measures are cash, which are credit reductions. And I mean that 1-1-2019, whatever the performance of the Greek economy, the measures will be implemented, while the reductions will only be applied if we achieve the giant surpluses of 3.5% and only after the lenders' agreement. It is time to measure your shadow at midday, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, half-time under the hot sun of demands, not the sorrow of the irresponsible opposition and supposedly heroic negotiation. Surruption, the shadow is fooling. Soon I shall refer to two articles in the bill. Article 31 is based on the structural weaknesses of Law 3920/2011. The beneficiary shall be the manager. In this case is STASY and not OOSA, which is the parent company or the ‘ATTIC MERO’, which is the manufacturer. After all, in all European countries the beneficiary is the operator and not someone else. This article will not be applied, Minister, because it is inconsistent with unrevised provisions of Law 3920/2011. As for Article 39, it is a clear attempt to settle. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will conclude in a minute, Mr President. You create two-speed switching beneficiaries. You cancel your own mobility law. Anyone who had the information promoted his secondment before the amendment of the Mobility Act on December 2, 2016 - possibly on the basis of rhysophical criteria - is now a beneficiary of a transfer. Two categories of beneficiaries! I am afraid that the only criterion for such secondments to be converted into permanent transfers was one and only: your attempt to create a party army. The only criterion was that the vast majority of these extracts were signed by the SYRIZA ministers, our children, that is, by a majority of them. However, while you are trying to create a party army through provisions and amendments, society will constantly turn your back on you by the time you soundly fall apart. Greek society today is interested in its future and its survival and not your selective arrangements. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u417	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister Stavros Kontonis wants to make a clarification. Mr. Kegeroglu, the answer is mainly for Mr. Koutsuko. It's about the previous issue. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u418	I have to present Mr Maniotis' statement, since you're causing us. The interview is at ERT1 on 4-2-2017 and, ladies and gentlemen, says: "I read a news that is a scandalous attempt by the government to appoint seven hundred other civil servants without special qualifications. The Ministry of Justice announced last night that it will table legislation, according to which the unpaid mortgages, about three hundred eighty throughout the country, will become public services. In other words, all those who have been in cooperation with the unpaid mortgage guards, who are their children, grandchildren, nephews, are indirectly converted into civil servants, because their contracts will become private law contracts of indefinite duration." I'm filing it in the Minutes. It's Mr. Maniotis' statement. [[At this point, Minister Stavros Kontonis presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Stenography and Practice Directorate.]] Firstly, Mr President, the statement itself states that it did not respond to the government's legislative initiative. We are giving a solution to the unpaid mortgages, which were closed and which had to work directly and, secondly, it is not a rhetorical mechanism. It was Mr. Maniot's mistake. Admit it and don't tell us we don't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u419	It is about another issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u420	Minister, I'll give you a reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u421	Mr Minister, since you and Mr Koutsoukos have agreed on this, let us assume that the previous ones do not apply. What can we do now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u422	And the next day, if we go on, I'll testify to the daily press, which says that this position is unacceptable. I'm glad, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u423	Minister, you have agreed on this. What do we scratch the past?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u424	No, they won't tell us that this statement was not about this case. It was about this case. It was a wrong statement, and I am glad today that the Democratic Integration Party is voting in favour of these provisions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u425	Mr. Gass has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u426	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today is a good time talking about the Ministry of Home Affairs bill, just a few days after our positive developments in the Eurogroup of 20 February. In particular, this agreement demonstrates a change in European austerity policy and confirms the need to change the mixture of economic policy for the benefit of society through a development perspective and dynamics. In this direction, the political forces cannot be missed. We should support her. It is a strategy that puts our country in the face of such a process. The opposition must also take it seriously, so that it can determine its political actions and objectives. But let the Cassandras of New Democracy not be disappointed, who with a "class" force defend the failed policies of 2010-2014. Because what has been achieved - and this is most important - has been based on our own documented proposals, which we have consistently negotiated with the institutions for the completion of the programme. It is a difficult process, which has not yet come to an end, when, in fact, no one stands firmly against the interests of the large, in the interests of the weak social groups. By emphasising growth, job creation and targeted reductions in the most sensitive social groups, we are now moving towards the completion of an agreement that has strategic results that will have a positive effect on society. That is why we are optimistic about the prospects that are being opened. There is room for improvement both in taxation and in the expenditure front. We will continue to move around looking at society, planning and implementing integrated reforms until the final exit from the crisis, but a society upright. In this context, the completion of legislative initiatives that modernise the functioning of state structures and serve the social needs of the majority of citizens, such as the arrangements in the bill we are debating today, is our government commitment, but at the same time a reform that gives solutions and speeds up government work. At the same time, we are given the opportunity to respond realistically to the complex requirements of a modern European state, taking into account the particular geomorphological characteristics of our regions, such as islands, but also to legislate on criteria that help to achieve social justice by resolving, if possible, most of the chronic problems of bureaucratic treatment for our fellow citizens, by legislating in a broader way, at least on small but equally important issues which harm workers in problem areas, such as border areas. In this context, Mr President and Minister, the Dodecanese Members of the SYRIZA, with the support of all the members of the Representation, Manos Konsola and Professor Dimitris Cremastinos, have tabled an amendment which has been tabled and signed by all of them at the time. It is the amendment with a general number 933 and a special number 12, which deals with regulating the issue of first-stage subsidy for civil servants and OTA officials serving in a border region. It's a long-standing effort, which today finds her fairness. This is due to the Minister's sensitivity, which in a very positive way has shown the way to a solution. I call on all parties to stand positively in voting on this amendment and not to stand against it, such as the 10th pension allowance. Do not deny this to workers and people serving at the border. Let me tell you that it will be a big political mistake. This amendment clearly stipulates - for people to know what this is all about for the calculation of the staff member's ten-year stay at the border. More specifically, in the amendment - an addition, accepted by the Minister, it is stated that for the calculation of the ten-year compulsory residence of officials in the border region, the time taken from the service is also taken into account because of childbirth leave. In other words, there are cases at the border, in which people received the grant for first home purchase - women in particular - but when they entered the process of child rearing this year was not counted in the decades. This resulted in the end not to complete the decade and the state coming and asking for all the subsidy back, with a risk of confiscating their homes. The amendment provides that in the event of a pension for the beneficiary of the grant, the declaration of residence for a decade will relate to his placement and service at the border. Nor shall the total period of stay from receipt of the grant be taken into account, provided that the staff member has already completed an aggregated length of 10 years in the same region when he left. This amendment is, as I have said, a request from the society of the border region, an effort from the people who have worked, contributed to the preservation and strengthening of social, political and economic life in the border regions and explicitly clarifies the calculation of the decade. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u427	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Anastassios Megalamoustakas has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u428	Thank you, Mr President. I'll talk much less. That's why I'm judging I'm not supposed to get up on the Step. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I would not speak today, as I believe I would repeat and say what I usually say in every bill, which concerns the way in which legislation is being drafted, which, unfortunately, is also a very bad piece of legislation. In the previous plenary we had the article - a broom, which included everything. Now, we have a multi-project vacuum cleaner with ten ministries involved and with too many amendments. I do not think that we should legislate like this, as only errors occur. And we see that you understand this as well, since every two months you bring to new corrections bills, amendments, improvements - as you would like to say - the laws that you have adopted yourself a while ago. This is a shame for all of us, not just for you, and I think the President of this House must do something about it immediately. But you, the SYRIZA MPs, when you were opposition, do not welcome such policies. So you should show the necessary seriousness and judge it. Unfortunately, this is not the case. The other paradox, which finally caused me to have a small and short speech today, was the placement of some colleagues, particularly SYRIZA, who said we have a positive development after the Eurogroup. What is this positive development? It is truly paradoxical to confront even the opinions among you. One says we're just sharing. The other guy says we have positive developments. What are the positive developments? The extra delay? We don't have a deal yet. Unless you have and we don't understand it. Many of you, too, are calling for the support of the rest of the parties within the House. I'd be very happy to give it to you. But let there be mutual cooperation, a formal, even cross-party consultation, so that we too can say, 'Yes, we will support you, because you have taken some of our ideas, some of our proposals'. Nothing. I heard Mr Tsakalotos this morning saying, 'I cannot tell you what the criteria are and what the conditions are for us to agree'. How do you want us to support you? Are you going to ask us for a consensus at the last minute, so when you bring us the final bill, which I'm afraid you might bring it into an article? Do you want us to participate in something that you've organized on your own? That's not right. It's not what the Greek people want. It's not what the Greek society wants. And, unfortunately, this is how we are going to see a recovery in our economy. In fact, society does not see the development to which all of you are referring. People are hungry. People are cold and suffering. And I'm not plundering now. I'm just telling you what the reality is. To exaggerate a society, an economy, and then say that we are successful because we have brought growth, because the surplus is not 0.5%, but close to 2%, it is a mockery. Is that what you had as a dream when you entered this room? Making fun of the world? Because, unfortunately, this is about mocking. In fact, the way you work in this House, either by your legislation or by how you decide, reminds me of the spoiled child who brought the ball into the ball to play together, who wanted everything to be done on the terms of why it just had the ball. These behaviors are really childish! I'm afraid so. I hope that there will be proper information on Tuesday so that we can have a real dialogue that will lead us to something better, because so far, politics has not achieved the result that everyone would want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u429	Thank you. Mr. Consolas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u430	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have listened carefully to all the rapporteurs, but I would like to remind our rapporteur, Mr Georgioda and Mr Dendia, who have argued that this bill goes beyond the limits of the government's powers, since it is a stirring-up of many regulations concerning many ministries and many variables, not only of the Ministry of the Interior, but also many other issues that go beyond the Ministry's limits. You know, there may indeed be an exception, what Mr Gassis said in relation to the amendment - an addition adopted by the Minister, which rationalises objective issues which do not arise under the responsibility of the officials. This is a fact, but I would expect the government to show the same sensitivity to the employees of the border, who are and serve an example in the "NATIONAL SAFALIC". Imagine, ladies and gentlemen, what would happen if the New Democracy were in the government and was doing this high-purpose sales, which the government literally extinguishes thousands of employees from the "National SAFALISTIC", when the New Democracy had for its day ensured not only its viability, but also ensured this healthy framework of the "National SAFELISTIC". In fact, now the government continues this effort to sell it out on external markets beyond the European market and nothing has been heard in this Chamber at all. So today, in the bill, everyone supports the government majority for provisions that are a number of strings of staff and party regulations, arrangements that find purposes. Because it is typically a bill by the Ministry of Interior, let me pay tribute to the leakage that the government is manipulating about the forthcoming change in the electoral law to self-government. The underlying rumours that have seen the light of publicity in the media, but also in political circles, express the thought that a redesign of the Ministry for the Change of Election Law is being attempted and concerned with the electoral law in the municipal elections. I therefore have to point out that this is another attempt by the government to control self-government. It seeks to create a dissolutionary situation, not to run the municipalities, not to have the majority principle, and all the means for this purpose are repaid by means of an electoral law that will create dissolutionary situations in government to play a role in the regulator of the sovereign mortal and minority regimes of the so-called Left and the current that now prevails in the government majority. In fact, we hear that foreigners will also be given the right to vote on municipal elections and we wonder if there is a bottom in that party's feasibility. I wonder, Minister, if the government knows that there is a constitutional rule, an institutional constitutional framework. Evidently some in the government know it and others do not know it. Perhaps they are even thinking of giving votes to those who are caught in the hot spots of the islands. Ladies and gentlemen of the government majority, for the first time there is such a disharmony between the government and the electorate. You have no democratic and moral legitimacy to go to any change at this time of the electoral law on municipal elections. As far as the bill is concerned, I shall refer to specific articles. I shall refer to what demonstrates the extreme interests with which the government is linking the legislative procedure, making this procedure simpler in the National Representation. I am referring in particular to Article 39 - and Mr Bukouros also referred to it before - which regulates the transfer of civil servants in the context of mobility. I would like to remind you, Mr Ministers, that you had fought very hard in this Chamber and within and outside Parliament the idea of public mobility, which we had at that time spoken with arguments. And what did you do? After you have been late for so long, you have brought in a regulation whereby civil servants from December 2, 2016 - the date, that is, when the Mobility Act came into force - can be seconded by 15 March by 15 March. It's a completely photographic layout. According to this, the criterion is not the real needs of the public, it is not the needs that govern the rules of operation of the establishment plan of any OTA, but if there is agreement from the services on which the staff member is going at his request, then he will go. With this logic you know that the services that are suffering from extreme subsistence, particularly in the island area, will never be staffed. It is essentially a provision that acts as a laundry for the legalisation of all the extracts or transfers made under rheology criteria, and it is assumed that a great deal has been done over the last two years. The truth is, we don't know the number. It would be very useful in this Chamber for the Ministry to submit a number. In relation to Rule 40, to which I have referred in detail and in my speech to the committee, I would like to say that, for another year, contracts to cover emergency and emergency needs are being proposed in relation to refugees' housing structures, obviously to continue the big business that has been set up by the government for immigration with direct awards and in accordance with the urgency procedure. So you also did with the recent ministerial decision, ladies and gentlemen of the government, to create a closed type of pre-retirement centre in Kos, Kos, which the government is constantly punishing, dear and dear colleagues. At the third tourist destination of the country, with a direct assignment of a pre-repeal centre of more than 4.5m euros, Kos is therefore set at the forefront of the government again. On the occasion of this debate on Article 40, therefore, let me say that it is a wrong decision and I call on the government to take it back. Tourism can no longer be taken away. You have recognized that it is hostile capital tourism, gentlemen of the government. If you believe, then, in this perspective, you are withdrawing the decision. Not in the islands of pre-experienced centers. You know what? Mr. Muzalas, at the same time, has another peculiarity. He has not answered the substance of Mr Buddour's complaints. That is why we are seeing articles such as Article 30 of this bill, legalising non-transparent procedures and direct awards under the pretext of urgency, and we will see more of them while you remain in the government. In addition to the provisions of this bill, the account for photographic provisions of this character has been lost with the amendments tabled by the Government. Along with the demand for political change, the demand, Mr President, is clear from the submission of the recommendations from all the groups, of the parliamentary order, particularly on issues relating to the legislative procedure. I would therefore like to end by asking, Mr Minister, as far as island Greece is concerned, to respect the concept of mobility, to strengthen what we have said in the past, the municipalities of less than three thousand inhabitants - see the example of Kassos - and in particular, the extension of the working contracts to hot spots on the islands, take it back, such as making the decision on the pre-experimental centres in Kosos and Leros. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u431	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague, Mr Papatheodoros Theodoros, has the floor from the Democratic Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u432	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, Mr Kontonis, you will allow me to comment on what you have said to clarify the situation in relation to the position of Mr Maniotis and yours. With regard to Article 32, therefore, in relation to the case of death, the final withdrawal of an unpaid mortgage guard and the arrangements you bring, we have told you from the outset that we are in agreement with this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u433	Are we staying on this?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u434	We'd stay at it if you'd stayed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u435	I didn't say a word.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u436	Will you allow me to place myself?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u437	We were challenged by Mr. Koutsukos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u438	Will you allow me? So with what Mr Maniotis said in his statement - and what has to do with the knowledge we have about the draft law, which at least was in the consultation on the unpaid mortgages and, possibly, their conversion - there, we are telling you that both Mr Maniotis' statement and mine and the other statements apply as they stand. One more, the other one. I'm telling you, Minister. You won't waste time. I say to you this: there is no problem with this regulation. Bring the bill, which you told us you'd testify and tell you our position. At the moment and with the knowledge of the provisions we have from the consultation, we disagree.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u439	What are you talking about? Do you know what you're saying right now, Mr. Papatheodorou?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u440	I know very well what I'm saying. This statement was about...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u441	What was it about?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u442	Wasn't it about this arrangement?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u443	Is that what the reporters tell you?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u444	Minister, this dialogue cannot continue. Mr. Papatheodorou, you have eaten three minutes from your speech on a subject that was resolved before. Mr Koutsoukos and the Minister agreed on this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u445	But don't waste time on me too, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u446	Nice remark!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u447	Mr President, I shall continue immediately.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u448	Mr President, I have tabled, as Mr Koutsoukos has asked me, the statement by Mr Maniotis in the Minutes. Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u449	Minister, please. Mr. Papatheodorou, continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u450	I am obliged to deal with only two amendments, because of time, which are important. Minister, you accepted the amendment under number 944, which changes the composition of the Committees on naturalisation and you put a member of one of the relevant secondary schools in these committees. First of all, I must inform you that there are no executives. There are the Director of secondary education, his deputy and a series of secondary education teachers operating at the Secondary Education Department.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u451	Mr. Papatheodorou...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u452	We won't have a dialogue. You'll understand what the point of the objection is. But, Minister, in this Committee on Physicalization, it is the responsibility of a secondary school member who comes to replace a secondary collective body of local government with the performance or not of the process of naturalisation. In the explanatory statement, I read that because there is an interview there has special knowledge of the interview, which is why you propose this posteriori. Let me explain that this interview is not an examination procedure, it's not a test. What you are doing is changing the composition of the naturalization committees at the moment and that is where we are opposed. There is no reason to participate in secondary education. We don't run tests there or ask.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u453	Mr. Papatheodorou, it's not about local government, it's about decentralized people. You're making a mistake!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u454	All right, the decentralized ones. So you want to replace it with who?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u455	The composition is changed, because a teacher cannot participate in these committees. It's wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u456	So I'm telling you, you're changing the composition. We do not agree with changing composition. Don't you see it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u457	I can see that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u458	With regard to Mr Muzala's amendment, there would be no problem and I would say that it is like the previous ones, that it is fragmentary and sloppy. But it would be very easy because, with this amendment, the Ministry of Migration Policy is consciously adopting a bisecting policy for the Lesvos Prefecture. What does this amendment provide for in two words? That the paradox of third-country nationals of migrants will provide an amount of 170,000 euros for the compensation of residents of Moria, plant and livestock for the period 2015. Let me also tell you that yesterday I visited Moria in Mytilini and had contacts with both the institutions and the residents. Of course, I won't say that I visited her and I didn't see her with the binoculars, but I don't want to do the same thing Mr. Fotillas did before. However, I will say that you are limiting your intervention only to restoring the damage caused in 2015, to the sum of EUR 170,000, because this amount has been made by the General Accounting Office of the State, to a single grant and you are creating a problem between the inhabitants of the island and, in particular, the other regions affected. Because on the one hand the tourist sector of the island has been economically destroyed, the city of Mytilini is now in a fragile financial situation and you are currently focusing your intervention on Moria, where there is the center and there you are giving 170,000 euros. Why only for 2015? Aren't there any disasters after that? Why don't you build a restoration plan, as promised by the Prime Minister to the five mayors for all the islands, not to tell you about all the five islands that have suffered the consequences of the refugee crisis? So we are talking about this island in its entirety, speaking with the institutions and residents, who are now preparing to submit an economic study of all the damage they have suffered and you are going to put them against them. You come to place yourself and say that despite the burden that he has experienced the entire island, despite the fact that all the services of the island are presently involved in the crisis of the refugee, the only thing we will restore is the damage to a village and for a particular period. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me one more minute, Mr President, I will not need any more. There's something else. Politically and symbolically, but also socially, taking this money from the paradox of immigrants to give it to the restoration of the damage caused by the refugee I think you should have minded yourself. Why would you mind? For the first time, the Law of 2011 and 2015 does not include such a provision. It says that the paradox can go for social cohesion, for social solidarity, for the social inclusion of immigrants, for feeding, for housing, but not for restoring damage. We said that there is a problem and political and social and symbolic. It works divisively for immigrants, it works splits for refugees, it works splits for the inhabitants of the island, who said today, when I contacted them, "good for Moria will restore the damage. For the rest of the region, why didn't anyone talk?" - and they meant the rest of their island - when on the same island the reduction of arrivals this year was 60%, the reduction of arrivals from Turkey was 20%, and the reduction of the population's financial capacity was only over 30% of the damage suffered last summer. So we have just asked you to withdraw this provision, to include it in a comprehensive recovery and economic development programme on the island, which, of course, cannot be limited to 170,000 euros - you understand - and to serve this restoration from the state's obligation, from money that you can find from the Social Fund and from the European Union's Emergency Fund and, in any case, does not come in this way - which shows a punishing mood - from the paradox of immigrants, in order to restore the damage that a single village has suffered on an island, Moria, while the other island also suffers, with funds coming from the European Union or from the state itself. I think you should withdraw it because this division that is currently created on the island has only one character. I do not mind if the honourable Member of the SYRIZA in the region is criticised. I mind taking advantage of Golden Dawn from such policies. I think that is enough and sufficient reason to prevent such a result. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u459	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister Spirtzis has the floor. Minister, five minutes is that enough?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u460	Yes, Mr President, I will try to be shorter. Ladies and gentlemen, I will speak to you on the fourth chapter. These are two articles concerning the responsibilities of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. Article 30 has to do with regulations of the AAS and the AAS, which specifically relate to the sources and resources of the Civil Aviation Authority and the Civil Aviation Service, whose financial autonomy has already been established. However, we need to specialise actions allowing us European and international aviation and air transport to be done, which require us to be flexible and to exploit resources and revenue from various sources. As regards the Civil Aviation Authority, it should be ensured that it participates in European research or other programmes, thereby drawing up financial resources in addition to the given support from the State budget. As far as the Civil Aviation Service is concerned, it is necessary to ensure that it has specialised services both in the field of air navigation and in the area of the management and operation of installations at airports. You are well aware that there are facilities at airports that the Civil Aviation Agency has, while having human resources and know-how, been unable to develop over the years. The second article concerns the possibility for the ‘ATIO MERO S.A.’ to conclude contracts with OSCE in order to exploit, exploit, exploit the assets of ‘ATIMERO S.A.’. This provision existed only for the old operating company of the ‘ATIO MERO S.A.’. He was transferred to S.H.I.E.L.D. These contracts have not been made. It does not rule out that the amendment should be maintained and that contracts should be made with the SAC. The OSCE will also be able to do so. I would like to say two things here, because there are also workers' mobilisations, so that there is no misunderstanding of any kind or of any kind other than some who want a life to distort the actions of the government. There is no question of privatising or depreciating the role of SSY. There is also no question of the SAC's revenues. That is why we submit legislative improvement, which provides that even if the OSCE is the entity to conclude the contracts with the "ATITIC MEASURES S.A.", these revenues will be entered as revenues of the OSCE at least locked in the accounts of 2010. So there is no concern among the workers. However, what we are not going to continue to maintain is the account of recent years in relation to the property and use of the "ATITIMERO S.A.". I read to you and you will also tell me if you consider these figures to be reasonable, the revenues of urban transport, of the STD, from these activities. For the Constitutional Hall, the maximum amount collected over the last five years is in the order of 1.200,000 euros. In 2013 it was only EUR 520,000. In 2014 857,000 euros. This year, with a better management of STASY, it is 1.018,000 euros, but you understand that this corresponds to a small or medium store in the region of the Constitution, not to the metro station. Revenue from advertising in the trains in 2013 was EUR 1,289,000 when one and a half million passengers are moved each year. 2016 was 1,426,000 euros. And the revenues from the framework at the stations are only EUR 276,841 in 2015, EUR 326,755 in 2014 and in 2016 it was a little up to EUR 451,000. This shows, however, that even in December, we have a great deal of advertising demand, more than 50% of the panels are free. This means that there is no and there was no specific mechanism in urban transport to exploit positively for the benefit of workers and passengers these assets of the "ATTIF S.A.". Mr President, I am tabling the legislative improvement supplementing Article 31 and it provides that the net revenue from this activity we are saying - in order not to be concerned - is to be entered as revenue in the budget of "STASS S.A.".
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u461	Thank you, Minister. Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy Mr Nikolaos Dendias has spoken for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u462	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the views of the Officerate on the matter have been analysed in detail both by our diligent rapporteur Mr Georgioda and by a number of colleagues, Mr Consola lately, Mr Charakopoulos, Mr Kyriazides and Mr Bukoro. However, I have to say to you, Minister, without there being any need to go into all the articles - and I think you will agree with me, even if you are trying to defend it - that this legislation incorporates the whole problem of the legislative work of this government and the chaotic way in which it legislates. As a defence against this category, in committee you put forward the idea of the fact that others did the same and referred to the specific legislation of the previous government. He can't stand criticism. These instruments, for example, n.4281/2014, were the law that closed an evaluation and therefore, by nature, it was, or n.4172/2013, which concerned public accounting, that has nothing to do with what we are discussing today. In any case, I must tell you that even if that were - which is not - you were elected to change the bad texts and not to increase them and adopt them. Therefore, this logic of yours, the logic that others have done the same or that of others I do not think it honors the government. It is certain that it does not honour Parliament at all. And I will give you examples, because the rapporteurs have told us very well and thoroughly. First of all, government failure. Article 17, for example, returns to the Ministry of the Interior. Why? You built the Ministry of Migration Policy with fields and branches and then we told you that it was dysfunctional and much more, and you told us that you wanted it. Now the system doesn't work. We're taking an address and we're taking her back to another ministry. Exemptions: Here is the stress of this government. For example - Mr Toskas is missing now - the exception to rents for buildings from the EEA by the provisions on public leases. Why? I was the political leader of the S.H.I.E.L.D. We are talking about obvious leases, because obviously the obscure leases are not made on behalf of the U.S.A., so that a lease can be paid and the issue can be raised. So we're talking about obvious leases. Why would the apparent rents of the NSA be excluded from public leases? Can anyone say a reason? There's no need. There's no answer. Shall we go to other things? I was really reading it to you, surprised by Article 46(2)(b). Ladies and gentlemen, this piece of legislation has twelve articles on its main purpose and the rest up to the hotel hall, that is, Article 49 which is the entry into force, on other issues. I mean, one to four. If you put the amendments in, it goes about one to five. We are, however, going to Article 46(2)(b) on exemptions. What's it about? Is it about personnel under private contract - who if you love? - the Improvement Agency and the Corinthian Symbol Irrigation Agency. We are therefore introducing special rules for staff under private law contract by the Stymfan irrigation organisation Aloupo Corinthia. I confess to you my sin. To this day I did not know about the existence of the Stymfalia Stympala Stymply Association of Corinthia and now I have no idea why we should introduce excellent regulation for the Stympala Stymply Stymply Organisation and its staff, for which, Minister, the Scientific Committee of Parliament, you spoke about before and rightly referred, i.e. the major seal guard, the Minister of Justice, spoke... [[Laughing by Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights]] That's your title, Minister! What am I supposed to do? Outside your office is a huge seal, so much! There are two pages of which the Scientific Committee of the Parliament tells you why it is against the 1999 Directive and against the President-in-Office of the current President of the Republic and against the sum of other provisions. So tell us why every piece of legislation should we find the ruffles? Why should there be something in every piece of legislation that - one or more, here is a lot - is an example of poor legislation? And how do we get the impression of what one recommends and thinks a complication? We are fighting the great interests here. For the small interests which they have understood and ended up with the place, are we in the mood to do anything or in every piece of legislation will we find something for each one of them? In any case, I look forward to the answer. Another issue is the procedure for the parliamentary amendments, which usually conceal the government's desires that the government dares to show. On the subject of the change of the Committees on Culture, can anyone explain why the Head of the Department for Culture of the relevant Directorate for Decentralised Administration should change? Why should this be done, and indeed with a parliamentary amendment? I beg your pardon, ladies and gentlemen, what are the Members doing here, who are proposing this amendment? Does anyone want to explain to me? In fact, the Minister accepts it as reasonable. What is wrong with the public administration of the Hellenic Republic and must the head of state suddenly change? Someone will tell me, that there should be - the Minister told me before - a teacher. Oh, really? There's educational media. There is a member of a higher education institution's LAG, which is located within the limits of the relevant decentralised administration. For example, in the Ionian Islands Region, for example, it could be your parliamentary representative, Mrs Vaki. Would Mrs Vaki not be enough to defend the educational work? Should we put on another teacher? Isn't one guy enough? Explain why. Get the hell out of here and explain us. Even if you thought, Minister, why didn't you bring it under government rule? How do we suddenly suffer a parliamentary amendment? Because of that, of course, the amendment, ladies and gentlemen, is correct. It is not a parliamentary amendment. You understand that, don't you? There are no five Members who have been smuggling with the composition of the committees and who have decided in the best interests of the defendant to exchange a decentralised administration official with a member of the educational community. That's not the point. There's something else. Will you tell us? Aren't you going to tell us? Are we going to find it in front of us sometime? Aren't we going to find it? Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to mention a few of the issues of greater political topicality which are of importance to us and which have been discussed here today. I must say again that I was surprised today - and I was very sad - by the graceful style of the Minister of Finance, Mr Tsakalotou. I don't understand why things are so good. I do not understand why, smilingly, we have to talk about all this and say 'nothing' and everything is a little cute and a little beautiful and a little bit different. Ladies and gentlemen, the country currently has a huge problem. Society has a huge problem. The market has a huge problem. The prolongation of the loose end - and we are talking about the extension of the loose end, since the government has allocated what it called'red lines' - is, first of all, a great defeat for the government - that is what we are interested in - but it is a bit of a problem, both through the agreement and through the prolongation of the Greek society. So we were expecting the elementary point, namely that the relevant Minister should come from the Constitution to Article 83, if I remember correctly, because Mr Chakalotos asked me a strange question of constitutional principle - and that he should inform either the National Representation or the committee responsible. None of this happened. On the contrary, the New Democracy Members had to submit a request for Mr Chakalotos to come next week, namely a week after the agreement was concluded. In essence, he did not say anything to us at all. Firstly, he did not reply to what he said before, namely that the extension is a disaster or to what Mr Juliarakis's current colleague says, namely that the extension is a disaster. That's like they never spoke. When a Minister of Western democracy rises and says to the national parliament: 'Ladies and gentlemen, if something is extended after December, it will be a disaster for the country', and then it will happen on its behalf - because he conducts the negotiation - and the destruction, which he himself had predicted and defined as a disaster, then I imagine that the path of the honest parliamentary man is one of the only ones. But let us assume that there is no such sensitivity. Isn't there even the sensitivity of the adequate explanation? In order not to reach cheap humor, because I call myself 'damaging humor' the remarks made to me by the Minister, through his irony regarding QE, the 'Quantitative easing', pretending that this has nothing to do with Eurogroup or with the negotiation and, of course, by making us a tutorial as a specialist, apparently considering that it is directed at his first-year students, namely those who had happiness - or not so much happiness - to be subject to his teaching work. God knows what letters they'd learn when they came out on the market! In any case, ladies and gentlemen, in order not to say much, I would like to read to you interviews from the Minister himself, who has done the smart thing here. On 22-1017-, I asked it and it was sent to me - it says for word: "The valid completion of the second evaluation and the subsequent quantitative relaxation" - the one that said before me that it had nothing to do with anything - "it gives us time to unfold a lot of pieces of the programme You'll tell me, only he tells me. Mr Papademitriou, Minister of Economy, on 12-12-2016 at "BLOOMBERG": "The integration of Greek bonds into the quantitative relaxation programme of the European Central Bank after a successful completion of the second assessment will lead... etc." Is there a government minister who refuses that the completion of the assessment is related to our entry into the system of quantitative relaxation? Is there one who says it? Are we serious? After such a whole story, what the Minister of Finance has to do here is come to sell intelligence to the Parliamentary spokesperson of the Civilian Operations? It has already been mentioned by Mr Draghi. Mr. Draghi, he says he'd laugh. Mr. Draghi has laughed too much about this government. That's true. But we cry with black tears. In particular, speaking to the Commission of the European Parliament, Mario Draghi noted: "The Greek bonds will only be included in the European Central Bank's quantitative relaxation programme once the second assessment is closed". At your disposal. What, to understand, is the Minister of Finance talking about, who follows the well-known vagina, 'we are dropping the ball on the stage through irony'? Three things he said. Firstly, the question of pensions is a red line. The red line, yes or no? Oh, no. Red line the issue of duty-free. The red line, yes or no? Oh, no. Third, after the December disaster. The disaster occurred that he predicted, did we pass in December, yes or no? Yeah. So what does he say from there? What's he telling us? But in any case, we will have time on Tuesday to discuss this in detail in committee. But there is one question here, ladies and gentlemen, the government has come to an end. And what I think he can do, by putting all the ministers on television windows and with one voice saying the same false story and believing that this story will stand and be able to make a impression, it is over. The government did well in the first year, somehow mocking it in the first quarter, but this story is over. This government is on its way. This government coalition, rather than nature, is coming. But what comes with them is serious governance, and that harms us all. That is why I say it and repeat it, you cannot be saved from what is coming from your electoral performance. However, leave at least with dignity and protect yourself from pheasyness, which occurs when the statements made by the Ministers were like those made by Mr Chakalotos in the House today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u463	Thank you, Mr. Dendia. My colleague Mr. Vlasis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u464	Ladies and gentlemen, when the step of the House comes after a lawyer, the doctor is always at a disadvantage. So, Mr. Dendia, we know our place.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u465	It depends on the doctor!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u466	Although today we are called upon to put ourselves on this draft law by the Ministry of Interior, it is impossible for me to resist temptation and not comment on the general topicality. In fact, the situation we are experiencing could be condensed in a single phrase: 'the weather has been filmed'. And this is because in the last few days we have seen the left government, which has for a long time flowed from the end of reaction and opposition to the institutions to celebrate the return of the institutions to Athens. This was all you have achieved from all the last space meetings and processes, that the institutions return, since you have of course assured them that you will comply with their demands. Every time, however, you return from Brussels, you also erase one of the red lines that you proudly carved on your passport when you started visiting them as government in 2015. What you are now trying to do is a beautiful verbal and communication wrapping up for the failure of your negotiations, for the severe consequences of your delays and, finally, for the sadness that will be called once again, of course, for Greek citizens to pay. From creative ambiguity we have passed the neutral budgetary balance. Congratulations! I really wonder what else you'll be up to to unleash your next failure and baptize the fish meat! You spoke about the end of austerity, when what you really managed was to load new measures in the country, even after the project ended in 2018. You! You described the prerogative of measures as unconstitutional. You insist that you do not face the situation realistically and prefer to shift burdens into the future, in the future of your children and our children, in order to avoid the cruel reality. But what makes me more impression than anything is your obsessive refusal to admit your mistakes and failures and to redefined your tactics. That is exactly what you are proving in today's bill. I will not comment on the first part of it, as I believe that all of us support initiatives that promote democracy and strengthen the foundations of the democratic culture. Considering the rest of the articles, we note that there are also some provisions which actually regulate outstanding and procedural issues that need to be resolved and to which we are in agreement. Besides, we know how to agree if we see anything right. You hadn't done it by 2014. But there are also other articles that show the negative of the way you legislate. I would say, fragmentedly, almost experimentally, that, in view of your micro-political interests and the normalization of further. A characteristic example is Article 25. Once again, dress the cloak of left sensitivity and try to convince us that this device must go through to pay the contractors’ prizes to the cleanliness of the municipalities. But I guess when you're wearing this cloak, you're hiding your eyes and your ears. Because you had to understand that this regulation does not solve anything. When we stressed the unconstitutionality under Article 103 of the extension of these conventions, you were deaf. Even if we, in good faith, accept the argument to cover fixed and permanent needs, please explain to us what prevented the recruitment of people by municipalities by contracts of indefinite duration and through the legal procedure? It is therefore expected that the Court of Auditors’ advisers have brought you back to order by not approving the payments. So you are now coming to call these payments legitimate, when you know very well that the previous unconstitutionality cannot be lifted by any legislation. I fear that we will come to the same result and payments will not be able to be handled again. You must finally stop these bad practices, because they only create problems, not only to us but to you. This also applies to Article 34. A year ago, with Parliament's consent, you made arrangements excluding contracts for the reception of refugees and migrants from the formal procedures for the award of public contracts. Your argument at that time was the extraordinary and unforeseen circumstances. We agreed! Today, you are asking for this regulation to be extended for another year. What's the emergency after all this time? Nothing! This provision is either the assumption of your complete failure to manage the migration-refugee or simply serves specific interests that you are promoting. I could give you even too many examples, which need further justification and investigation, such as Article 16 for the clearance of expenditure in the regions. However, I consider these references to be minor in the light of the general bad practice that you are following in law. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you of something simple, but always timely and critical. A repetitive coincidence ceases to be a coincidence. Have you measured the times when in your legislative work the phrase ‘within derogation of all general and specific provisions’ is used? I can assure you that there are too many of them! Have you wondered how many times you ask us to vote on provisions that correct your own bad practices? Again, too many times. As an academic I've always advocated that repetition is the mother of learning. But you, whatever mistakes you make, seem to be a mind you do not or rather do not want to know. The right legalization has nothing to do with satisfying desires for specific groups or individuals. It's about meeting the needs of the country. It is very much the difference between these practices and you are showing that either you are unable to distinguish it or - and that is even worse - you are not interested in promoting your interests. In any case, the Greek citizens are injured, who now recognise that they have been deceived and misled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u467	Thank you, Mr. Colleague. My colleague has the floor from the PASOK Democratic Assent - DIMAR Mr Mikhail Jellonis
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u468	Thank you, Mr President. In listening to the previous speakers, I think I am in the same work as a spectator again. Eight years of memorial policies. What have we had since 2010? Then again, the strong opposition, the New Democracy, had the magic wand and the "Zapopea". Objective: to understand the presidential chair. What's next? The SYRIZA populism followed those indignant in the squares.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u469	The New Democracy - PASOK coup d'état followed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u470	Yes, Minister, that coup d'état kept the country standing, because then PASOK took over its national responsibilities.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u471	She didn't keep her standing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u472	It was not robbed, nor glossed in the squares, as opposed to you who, in order to form a party with the components, were delusional, feeding everything to everyone. And today comes the Civic Opposition and does what you have done and the work is repeated. Except who pays the bill? Unfortunately, the Greek people have been paying him for eight years. Who said the truth from the very first moment, looking at the Greek people in the eyes, that the country is being led to unscrupulous bankruptcy and that the entire political system has to assume its responsibilities? Only PASOK did that. So voices that sounded here before swinging our fingers for a national attitude, I think they should think about it very well. In attending this week this negotiative thriller on the part of the government in relation to the negotiations, what do we see? The first day we saw a set-up propaganda on all channels, some minister and celebrations. Did we get a measure? 'Catter measures', we have heard today from the Minister and 'compensatory' on the other hand. The people tell us that each miracle lasts for a maximum of three days. And that's what kept one. The next day the truth came, as the partners in Europe, the lenders, the International Monetary Fund came out. It seems that none of the red lines you put yourself in are valid. It seems that duty-free, we are going to reduce pensions, we do not know what will happen to further debt reduction, when we get quantitative relaxation, what the primary surpluses will be after 2018. And time passes. Does the Greek society stand? Can it raise these endless, brave - on your part - negotiations, which the result, however, has been experienced by the Greek people in 2015, when you overthrown everything and yourself and signed what they gave you? Maybe, as I said before, we're in the same spectators' work after two years again? In two things you are good: You started with the "buffalo". You have changed the terms - not 'troika', but 'commitments', not'memorandum', but 'agreements' - and now you come with a propaganda strategy to present the black white to the Greek people. But neither can you agree with each other, because we see doubtful messages every time one of your people talks. The other day, Mr. Spirtzis, because he was in the Ioannina liberation, seems to have been caught by party patriotism on the other hand and celebrated the deal. The next day he said: 'Let us not celebrate too much, we have reached a compromise'. Your other official comes in and says "We lost one battle, we haven't lost the war yet". But society has lost it to you from your policies. You raised the bar too high. But I'd like to see how you get through him from here. I would now like to refer to this bill, a bill which concerns about eight, nine ministries, a bill to draw up provisions, services and facilities. I shall refer only to an article on the Ministry of Agriculture, Article 46 on the Improving Services. These agencies are organisations which manage the country's waters to produce agricultural produce. They are governed by the Royal Decree of 1958. In 2017, while we would expect a bill to come to modernise the functioning of these agencies, so that the water can be exploited in the best way, as well as how we will complete and modernise the irrigation networks, most of which are in a pharaonic era, again bring interoperable-type articles, such as changing one of the seven GFCF members, which was predicted to belong to the staff of the Agricultural Bank, since there is not today a Rural Bank. You say this place should be covered by the public sector. The rest was four plus one, a total of five, and two will be the nobles of the farmers. Is that your philosophy and your logic? When the four are already civil servants, what was bothering you though the third part was heresy by those who use water, by those who need these agencies? On the other hand, you come and ask what supervision will be, who will control these agencies. The municipalities were unable to do so. Now you say we take them to the periphery. The regional authorities have come here and are telling you that since we did not have that responsibility, the respective agency, the IMPs Directorate, we have broken it down. The staff is gone, too. We don't have any staff. How are we going to work to ensure that these agencies are supervised? You're the ones there, you're insisting. Even now I think you could accept where there are GFCMs supervising the relevant TWGs in relation to their technical oversight and operation, and also take over the supervision and control of the GFCMs of the relevant TWGs. And where they don't exist, they go to the district. And I will wait, because when we speak, as I have just heard of a committee, about the usefulness of the primary sector today, much more in the time of the crisis, I would expect, if anything else, that a bill should come very quickly to modernise the IMPs. In conclusion, I would really like to stress that the Democratic Alliance, as a side of responsibility, cannot consent to bills of this kind. Like also, it cannot, on the other hand, consent to your government's inertia and inappropriateness, because that is how you really drive the country into stature and society in anguish, in despair, to see where it leads tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u473	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u474	I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. Unfortunately for you, there are no new mutations, because you have now been revealed. You've all done them. I would just like to ask the government majority: really, what do you feel? Are you all right with your conscience? Because in your policies you have not only destroyed your own government perspective, but also your own ideology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u475	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, Mr Fotini Vaki, now has the floor. Here, Mrs. Vakis, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u476	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, before entering the substance of the bill, I would like to refer to the way and method of legislating followed in this draft law, in disagreement with many colleagues who have spoken before. Today's bill is the presumption of a commitment to limit the tabling of independent amendments to various bills, a goal which the President of this House has repeatedly stressed, and many colleagues in this Chamber. Therefore, this bill, in addition to the incorporation of Community law in relation to the functioning of European political parties and European political foundations, contains urgent provisions of many different ministries, which are absolutely essential to speed up governmental work and to resolve outstanding issues in public administration. So as the Bureau of Parliament had also committed itself, such a way of legislating can lead to a reduction in the need to table ministerial amendments to unrelated bills and, at the same time, to enable the provisions to be treated thoroughly in the co-legislative parliamentary committees. And since some colleagues have speeded up to burn down this legislative method, it would be useful to stress that this draft law fully respects the principles of sound legislature and has been structured in such a way that it enables not only the Members but also the citizens to approach it and understand it. Now in relation to the content of the bill: we have heard mainly the Civic Opposition to talk about customer service and recruitment, because the problem that has arisen with the payroll costs of public and local authorities is resolved by the provisions of this bill. It would be useful, however, to emphasise at this point how many tens of millions of euros have saved both the public and local government from the definitive removal of cleaning contractors. It is clear that what is bothering some colleagues is that the contractors' party is over and along with it is over and their madness about redundancies, about redundancies of the weakest, those who were used to cleaning them up without voice and without rights. The government, however, is determined to insist on and support workers in the cleanliness of the public and the wider public sector. With the project contracts, with the same cleaning workers, significant amounts were saved, substantial amounts from supplies, from contractors, while honest people worked hard to get out of the contractors' "older" and work in human terms. However, as long as this is annoying the New Democracy, which has spared hundreds of cleaners, it will do well to get used to it and apologise to society for its attitude in this matter. For you, colleagues of the New Democracy, are baptizing a sacred right, listen - listen - to the rosés, the sacred right of humble and despised people to dignity and work, their inalienable right to the lives of those who have made life inviolable and cast them in the garbage can of society and history. Of course, the amendment to enforce irrevocably judiciary decisions relating to the public and the OTAs concerning recruitment of officials, who, while vindicated, were not taken on account of the failure to adopt the relevant allocation decision by the administration. The provisions of this draft law also regulate matters relating to sensitive areas of public administration, such as services with responsibility for citizenship issues - the issues of the information service have been analysed in detail by colleagues - issues relating to police and the Port Authority staff, issues relating to the Asylum Service and other important areas of public administration. Article 32 also deals with important issues of mortgages, with the possibility of converting unpaid mortgages into rent, in order to ensure continuity of mortgage services to citizens in case of mortgage withdrawals. Loyalisation also ensures work, workers in mortgages and revenues to the public sector, while reducing the suffering of citizens, who would otherwise be forced to move away in order to serve. Also important is Article 36, which authorizes the co-legislative ministers to complete the procedures for declaring an explicit date as a global day of Greek language. The relief given to the citizens of Lesvos, particularly those in the region of Moria, where it is provided, and by the amendment of the Ministry of Finance, is to regulate the compensation of residents whose property has been damaged following the tension in the refugee crisis. An important end is the amendments regulating the issues of the administration of the Financial Stability Fund and the remuneration of the PSE members. Ladies and gentlemen, let me close with some remarks on negotiation. I did not intend to deal with topical and urgent subjects of major importance, but a great deal has been said and we must respond. We have thus heard a number of colleagues today talking about developments in the field of negotiation. We have heard from both the New Democracy and the Democratic Incorporation of the well-known teratologies about the retreat of the Greek side, about unreasonable measures, and one can honestly wonder how certain aspects of anti-population insist on interpreting developments. So, for my part, I would also like to ask the honourable Members: do you have an example of negotiating the previous government, the PASOK-New Democracy coexistence, in which the negotiating team then won nothing from the lenders? Do you have to present a negotiating result of your own attempt to bring back even EUR 1 compensatory benefit? The answer is, of course, no. And you know why? Because you were going to the negotiations with the staff member's logic. You're doing the same now. You go to Germany and commit to what the extremists of the Christian Democrats and Shoeble are asking for. And what do you earn, really? You win its full indulgence across the side, which doesn't even want to be photographed with your Chief. Isn't that what you're worried about? Have you not yet realised that the more slaves present abroad, the more extreme demands will be borne by the lenders? Do you remember what you had to do until you fell down in 2015? Obviously you remember them, but you still want to do the same and reproduce the same rhetoric of delay in the negotiation. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very important to emphasise what the Greek side won from a hard effort throughout the previous period. The foundation on which we will build the course of the Greek economy from now on is no more than the end of the additional austerity in the medium term. In other words, the net financial result of economic policy from now on should be zero. This means that there is no additional austerity dose for 2017 nor for 2018 nor for the period after leaving the Memorandum. The conquest of the zero, fiscal outcome of any reform agreed is, indeed, a crack in the wall of austerity and it is the first time that the Greek Government is turning with this commitment after a Eurogroup meeting. We know that you, together with the creditors' extremes, are begging for pension cuts and tax increases. You are also in the political interests of the International Monetary Fund and the Conservatives of Germany. Only those with whom you are seeking to alleviate today do not think you are trustworthy, and that is what they tell you, when you go to visit them and present them with your truth agreements. The government, however, did not only win the battle of budgetary neutrality, it also won two other very important measures, which you do not seem to like. The first is the Active Intervention Programme of 3 billion, to create 100 thousand new jobs and with the money required to be excluded from the calculation of surpluses. The second is the return to working normality, with the resumption of collective bargaining, even before the completion of the programme. The deviation from the acquis communautaire to work, which you accepted and brought to the country today, is correcting and reintroducing the Greek labour market to normality. Ladies and gentlemen, in a minute's time, Mr President, the recent agreement on Eurogroup enables the Greek Government to enter the technical negotiations that will be followed by better positions. This success does not mean the end of the effort to improve the conditions of the Greek economy and does not imply acceptance of any extreme terms if they appear in the course. As long as you ask, some of you, to impose the IMF's positions on taxes on the poor and tax-reliefs on the rich, be sure that once again you will be awkward, as you are doing today. And you will be awkward to watch the positive outcome of the forthcoming negotiations. We will fight again for the interests and needs of the many, so that there will not be a single euro burden on the weak. And with this compass we will be able to strengthen our position in society, against the extreme economic interests that you will willingly serve. And because in this Chamber there have been some extremely unpleasant comments about chairs, cynicism, opportunism, that we are here for our chairs today, Zigmar Gabriel, the Vice-Cancellor of Germany, made a statement. I quote: "The Greek elite plundered Greece and we looked at it." You know, we weren't that elite, nor were we the ones who ruled. And in this Chamber each one has his life course, his CV, his "subjects". We didn't even take any of it offshore, either. And I close because the cold and unpersonal reason for the legal provisions with poetry and literature has been buried in this Chamber today, let me say that Breech at the "Opera of Pentacles" says: "Why others are in darkness and others in light and you see those who are in light, but you don't see those who are in darkness." And we, ladies and gentlemen, represent them, the invisible, the ones which are not illuminated by the headlights of history. And for them, we fought, we fight, and we will continue to fight. And because the Left was called upon to rule in grim times, in the “tribes” of history, we will not condone with hope. We will continue to hope for the sake of these desperate ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u477	Thank you, my colleague. The Minister has the floor for a legislative improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u478	Mr President, I should like to make a legal improvement. It is an addition to Article 32(2) of the bill. I would ask that it be distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u479	Mrs Fotini Arabaji has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u480	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the day the Minister of Finance was found and came to the House to prove his morning saying that the rumours about his premature death are excessive. And it will give us four, five days until it enlightens us next Tuesday here in Parliament, to overcome - as he said - the sadness that the government will close the review. Unfortunately, sometimes Mr. Tsakalotos, apart from the Greeks, confuses the humor with the brass. I do not know if, in the year of the four, five days, the Minister of Finance gives him to counterpopulation, or ultimately gives him to himself, in order to overcome the lies he has made in that biblical non paper just a few days ago, the Maximos Mansion. And because the Minister answered in the morning with Mark Twain, I don't know if he feels like Twain's hero, that is, maybe it's Tom Sawyer, SYRIZA and the government. In any case now that Mr Chakalotos gave us signs of life and gave us an appointment here in the House on Tuesday. It will be good to explain these four, five days to all Greeks what they agreed to in the Eurogroup, what the grey points of the agreement are, how much more Greek taxpayers will put their hand in the pocket, to pay once again the government's delays and obsessions. It would be a good thing if he shared the celebrations of the Ministers, when it was not an agreement, when it was undetermined when there was no political agreement, when the return of the institutions, unfortunately, was accompanied by government's negotiators and, of course, additional concessions, when the government agreed on everything that was supposed to be resisting, when there was no commitment by the partners to public debt in addition to the short-term measures, when there was no provision for participation in the Quantitative Relaxation Programme. All of this must be answered seriously above all truths and not with opinions and waste. Let's go to the bill now. In your usual practice, you are to vote on a bill with irrelevant provisions, a malicious stitching of fragmentary arrangements without a central axis, without a central idea. They are arrangements that, instead of solving issues, are probably confusing them more if they do not completely prevent their proper treatment. In addition to the stitching, there are also contradictions, such as that of Article 27 on the transfer of the Chamber elections. And I am saying contradictions, because, Mr Ministers, the explanatory statement states the need to change the legislative framework by which the elections are to be held, and the draft law - what will become law and what you are bringing to the vote - you are simply referring to the transfer of the time of the elections without any mention of the legislative framework under which the elections are to be held. And I come to a provision of the Ministry of Rural Development, that of Article 46, which is supposed to deal with issues relating to the Improvement Agencys by removing, as it says, problems that have arisen with the current status of 'Kallikrakrat'. It regulates the issues of bodies dealing with water resources, that is, those resources necessary for agricultural production, for the primary sector, which, with so much mania and rabies, are being persecuted completely contrary to what you, of course, have promised them. A long-awaited legislation that directly touches the primary sector, therefore, a arrangement which two years ago had created expectations for these bodies with the proposals that your Government had requested to table, has now substantially hidden in an unrelated bill as one of the latest articles. In fact, the government actually achieves that impossible, that is to say, to reject this regulation by all the stakeholders, both the Committee of the Regions and the CEDEFOP, and, of course, by the agencies themselves. What are you doing with this provision? One responsibility, namely the supervision of these agencies, which was entrusted to the municipalities with "Kallikrates" and was, of course, working with whatever problems it has had, now transfer it to the regions, making it even more difficult to operate and supervise these agencies. You heard how eloquently the bodies were placed at the hearing. Already by transferring this surveillance from the old Directorate for Improvisations, a service that had and had carried out substantial checks in the municipalities with "Kallikratis", there were issues. The entities submitted that in many cases not only were not adequately audited, but no controls were carried out. In any case, even if the audit was completely complete, it was made at reasonable times. You are now coming today to stumble in this reasonable time too, switching supervision to the regions, creating a difficult, multiple bureaucratic framework, preventing the functioning and effectiveness of the agencies. What you will only achieve is a chaotic situation, since the regions will be required to grant approvals for technical, general, personnel recruitment, supplies, financial monitoring cards without the required infrastructure, the staff capacity, as you can see, at turtle rate. Tell us, for example, a region such as the one in Central Macedonia, which has to supervise seventy large TSEs, how can it effectively control them at reasonable time with the infrastructure that they exist, namely, without infrastructure? Ladies and gentlemen of the conflict, these agencies call for modernising their institutional framework and not superficial arrangements that make their work harder. On the other hand, you are also changing the recruitment process of their temporary staff, making it more time-consuming, at least three months, at the risk of these recruitments being completed when the irrigation is over, i.e. the natural object for which the temporary staff are recruited, the seasonal staff. In addition, you seem to be clearly ignoring, because you are probably not aware of the function of these agencies, that in cases of emergency, which are unfortunately many, such as floods, temporary staff must be recruited immediately and not wait for the long-term procedures which you are proposing. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and ANEL, the way, unfortunately, you legislate, also reflects the way you govern, with creative ambiguity, gonatograms and constant repetitions, which perpetuate every day the future of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u481	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Athanasios Davakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u482	Genograms have been said by my step-by-step colleague to be the ones we have been voting on in recent years, ladies and gentlemen. I will disagree with that because many times "on the knee" have written very nice things. What has been happening in recent years, in the last few months parliamentary and legislative terms in this Chamber, is a monument of poor legislation, a slash of various issues, which have not been hurt and unacceptable - I have said so many times and I will say this again this evening - that this House should be called within a meeting to deliver an opinion, to table an opinion, to create a political reason on issues that have been in this Chamber for so many years and for which we are called upon to decide. I repeat: Parliament's Rules of Procedure must be changed. What is being done in these hours is a monument - I repeat - of a bad legalization. You can also see the response of this House, Minister, in this case. We're attacking it in the hand. So I say to you whether you should see it so that, with a proposal of your own or to the President of Parliament, certain legislative procedures are carried out only in the committees, that the committees decide and that the committees legislate, that the Rules of Procedure should be changed so that we can find ourselves before this phenomenon. There are, therefore, issues such as regulations on the NDP, the National Intelligence Agency, the Police, the Municipal Police, arrangements on regions such as the TWG. The TWGs on the ground, as Mr Jelloni has said earlier, are those bodies which regulate water management which contribute to agricultural production. You cannot today, the Government of the Radical Left and the Ecology, bring in an emblem of this kind when there could be an autonomous bill, which could regulate the old times, the antiquity, the bad TWG network throughout the country. You come in today's emblem and bring this to TWO. Good! There are other issues about citizenship, cleanliness arrangements, urban issues. This bill is the joy of the amendment! It's never happened before. As long as the time passes - and I tell you, Minister, who is not distinguished either for larvals or for things that they create against other colleagues who are ugly, alpine image - I tell you with pain of soul - I am several years in this Chamber - that this House cannot legislate in this way. The rapporteurs are indebted to the bills, they come heroicly and patriotically to defend them, but unfortunately that is not the case. If they tell us, to so many colleagues, what was legislated yesterday on many issues, we may not be able to answer and this is a crucial issue in this Chamber. I hope that the President of this House will also listen to me so that there will be some sort of treatment at the Conference of Presidents. A characteristic case is the provision of Article 30 specifying the sources of revenue from the Civil Aviation Authority and the Civil Aviation Service. This regulation does not resolve the issue created by Article 65 of Law 4427/2016 - the responsible Minister is absent, but I tell you - which provided that all the route charges paid by the European Aviation Safety Agency, Eurocontrol, as you know, will be credited to the Civil Aviation Service and 20% to the Civil Aviation Authority. Mr Kammenos was also committed to the Committee on Equipment - you are a member and may have heard it - that the distribution of these sums would go to the Air Force as well. None of this has happened in this legislation you have brought. This breakdown excludes from the performance of the route charges the Hellenic Air Force and the National Meteorological Service, critical arms for both the country's defence and the Meteorological Service. The Air Force, however, has and maintains facilities and staff to provide search and rescue services every day in the Greek area, from a shipwreck to anything else. It is a sign of sovereignty in the Aegean Sea that the Air Force can conduct research and rescue - not our neighbours - for a shipwreck or anything else. Nevertheless, the budget for the Air Force must be compensated and it must be directly compensated. This is not the case. Equally important is the question of the Meteorological Service. Indicative of the dubiousness, with which the government and in this case the political leadership of the Ministry of National Defence are approaching their responsibility, is the fact that this bill has still been tabled an amendment, Minister, concerning issues - we have not seen a member of the Ministry of National Defence here - created by the regulations of Law 4407/2016, a law that we voted on in the summer. The issues raised in this amendment are two: firstly, it is noteworthy that the government's political leadership has discovered after so many months from the legislative establishment of the Real Estate Settlement Agency, PSDP, if you remember, we agreed as New Democracy that this must happen, that the assets of the Armed Forces must be exploited - that there may be virtual offers and offers in an auction, perhaps from the traumatic experience you have had with television licences. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] In any case, we see how the legislation is being legislated, which I told you at the beginning. It cannot be the stalking of another piece of legislation that happens in other legislations. This has happened with Law 4407/2016 on several occasions. Any bill coming, Minister, brings corrections to Mr. Kammenos's Law 4407/2016. That's a gonatogram! Also, another issue that arises is the one concerning various provisions of Law 4407/2016 for permanent volunteers under Law 4405/1974 and permanent volunteers. In particular, the implementation of what is provided for in the amended Article 47(11) and in the amended Article 18, paragraph 2.6 has led to a disruption of the normal hierarchical development in the Armed Forces, furthering exceptionally to a higher degree of personnel, which until now was considered to be more hierarchical than the equal-ranking defence officers and permanent officers who acquired their rank within the same calendar year. Nobody listens to me from the government. I do not mean you, Minister, because they are not matters for you, but I say them to ask for the minutes from the political leadership of the Ministry of National Defence, in order to deal with this issue, because it is very important and there is a sense of injustice among all the members, who fall within this case. The sluggishness in the arrest and the need to correct previous problematic legislative initiatives are the ones that make up the legislative - I would say - but also the political profile of this government. I feel the need to say that what was achieved this morning with Mr Tsakalotos and all that Mr Spirtz said is that we are celebrating along with the release of the Ioannina who started - listen - the First World War, which we all know was the crown of the first Balkan War and not the First World War, which began after three years, they have as much truth as Mr Spirtz has said about World War I and the release of the Ioannina! The fact that the "language is occult" is important and has historically linked it to our liberation from the memorials and all that compose the alpine image that the Greek people are experiencing today. I believe that soon this picture will be changed with the will of the Greek people, who, despite having been lured from your promises, has realised that promises do not lead anywhere, but other things may lead us to get out of the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u483	Mrs Antoniou has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u484	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today in plenary a bill from the Ministry of the Interior, which unfortunately once again we find that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government is faithfully following the constant parliamentary practice of fragmentary and racist legislation. "The same My Patelaki, the same My Fully!" You are, of course, doing so so that your rapporteurs and your parliamentary representatives, who say exactly the same in every speech in the House, do not get tired. Mrs Vaki, what she said in the previous bill, just the same thing, she said, and now we need to look at urgent needs. Two years you have urgent needs. Just last week, in the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs bill, we had a rope, too, of fragmentary, photographic and rhetorical provisions. So in today's bill, all you care about is how you will strengthen your party army, the client state, which, of course, was so strongly criticised two years ago and said that we were the new one. You've finally gotten older than the old one. You have brought in a bill with at least four ministries, which, once again, aims to correct your earlier mistakes and to serve you further. A characteristic example - to refer to examples - is Article 25, which refers to the question of payment of cleaning contractors to public services. We have criticised you from the outset for your tactics in this matter. Initially proceeded to fixed-term contracts for cleaning and when they expired you extended the duration until the end of 2016 and then until the end of 2017 for OTA contracts. Of course, because the Court of Auditors has decided to extend contracts illegally and refused to approve payroll orders, you are now coming to legislate and legalise these expenditure. "The same My Patelaki, the same My Fully!" So we talked about it, but you can't even hear it when we tell you. If you think this staff meets permanent needs for cleanliness, you should proceed to a normal recruitment process rather than mocking workers with fixed-term contracts. It's not just us. Read the report of the Parliament's Scientific Service. Did you read it? What else can I add? You're told by the Scientific Agency. We now go to Article 38 and to the staff of the General Secretariat for the Coordination of Government Work, which you are continuing to bring emergency arrangements. Is it true, Minister, that you are not enough for the forty-five officials who have already been seconded to the secretariat, that is, twenty more than those provided for in the establishment plan? Or is it not enough for you to be transferred permanent officials to the General Secretariat? You are now saying that you will also be able to transfer to the employees of indefinite duration. You want all the employees to be yours. How many, finally, ruffles do you want to do, Minister? How many more people do you want to take care of? Are you going to tell us? You do the same in the next article, Article 39, for the transfer of civil servants. It says that this allows any civil servants who are posted until 2 December 2016 to be posted until 15 March to be transferred to the seconded service. For them, which you have served with distractions and only for them - for no other official - their wish and the agreement of the host service is sufficient for them to be transferred. And then you say we're blaming you for ruffles. Are these distracted ones leaving you? Are you threatened? So you're coming to tie the rushphetti. That's what you're telling us. Without any organization, without considering where and how the staff should be distributed and what the real needs of the services are, you come again and legislate for the people and not for the Greek people. That's what you're doing. How many more examples can I give you? With Article 40, please extend until the end of 2017 the contracts to cover exceptional and urgent needs for the accommodation structures of refugees. Mercy! It's been two and a half years. When will you consider these needs urgent and urgent? Until when will you exclude these contracts from the procedure provided for in the formal investigation for public procurement contracts only for direct awards? You don't have an organized plan anywhere. Workers disappear, mismanage the funds, and there is a mess. But we said, it's probably the mess that works for you. It's obviously your conscious choice. I close with a comment on the agreement you say that you signed in the last Eurogroup, an agreement - shame that did not close the assessment, did not lead to the inclusion in the European Central Bank's quantitative relaxation, did not lead to debt relief measures, an agreement - shame, which brought a new axe to pensions and wages, led to the inclusion in the European Central Bank's quantitative relaxation in the unknown future and the debt relief measures after 2018 and we see. It is an agreement that a small kernel around Maximos is trying with communication fireworks to present it as a success, either by talking about the era of supposedly post- austerity, as the Deputy Prime Minister of Government did, or even reaching the point of being likened - listen - to the release of the Ioanninas, as the Minister of Infrastructure, Mr. Spirtzis, did. Unfortunately for them and the Greek people, the size of political fraud every day is revealed. The only person who did not speak and was unseen was the Minister of Finance who negotiated the agreement, who, of course, at the request of the New Democracy, said today that he would appear in the Committee on Economic Affairs of the House. If it is true, Minister, Mr Spirtzi's record, SYRIZA's companions look forward to Mr Tsakalotos rather to the role of Mrs. Physics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u485	Mr. Pallis has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u486	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Denkias spoke earlier and said in relation to the bill that the issues were analysed in detail by the rapporteurs, etc. So Mrs Antoniou comes and repeats his speech, because they have not been analysed by what seems to be very extensive matters. The same speech was made by many New Democracy colleagues with designations such as the 'Memorandum of Poor Legislation'. At the hanger's house, we're not talking rope! We will not say that there are no need and that there are no amendments to different bills, but you cannot be asked to speak of a poor legalization. You've proved that for many years now. For the 'baker', however, the substance is elsewhere. Many comments from your MPs have been made. Why change the committees for naturalisation, those that do not give citizenship to people? Fear not to spoil the conservative state that you have been building for so many years and wanted to preserve. Fear the degradation of the state you have built. That's your problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u487	We built it, and you...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u488	We have a different conception. We're not going to agree on a few issues. We see people as workers as social workers. You see them as electoral clients. So you've learned to see them and so you'll keep seeing them. That's why you see ruffles because that's what you did. Let's be honest about these things. I will come to an issue concerning my place, Lesvos and the amendment tabled for the compensation of the people of Moria in 2015, but I will make a comment on emergencies. A serious opposition when it comes here and says that "weakly legislate for another time to operate under emergency conditions for the refugee" should be aware of the needs, make suggestions and set targets. The aim on your part should have been when it will be abolished as soon as possible and we will be in a normal operation. But it can't be that Mr. Mitsotakis two weeks before he says "I can't get in there" and now say that there are no emergencies. Applies either to one or to the other. Mr Papatheodorou, however, entered Moria and saw things and recognized to some extent that something is happening and that the conditions are improving there, but he told us to withdraw the amendment, because it is not good to pay those people who since the summer of 2015 - Minister was the President-in-Office, when the first losses were made with the mass arrivals that you had not left any reception infrastructure on the substance, while you knew what could happen - they took the olive oil to make shadows. You only ate the millions then to make prisons. That's the only part you covered, and no reception infrastructure. So Mr. Papatheodorou, who entered Moria, did not make his head around - around seeing the fields how they had become at that time. And the Minister said that there would be another amendment of this kind. All I accept is the part where the funds are being taken, which is really wrong. But, at this stage and after a year, in Lesvos and Idomeni, where arrivals and departures were massive, the damage these people have suffered must be restored. I do not know what will happen with this amendment. Mr. Papatheodorou expressed himself. They're obviously not going to vote for it. The New Democracy has not taken a position and my colleague from Lesvos was written as a speaker, but I did not see him come to speak. Will you vote on the amendment, yes or no? Tell the world. Mr Papatheodorou also referred to other things. He visited Lesvos. But you were not familiar with Lesvos, Mr Papatheodorou, who is not in the Chamber right now, with a visit. As far as biscuit policies are concerned, I would like to say: what are the biscuit policies? Who raises the issue, 'the Morians against all the other Lesbians'? Mr. Papatheodorou put it on. These are the doubling policies. He referred to me personally. I will say this and close my speech before my time is over: The citizens of Lesvos are making efforts by SYRIZA and this government, to support their place, know them and recognize them. The citizens of Lesvos know very well and say - no matter what they vote - that if nothing else these people here are honest and honest, they do not make mistakes, they are late, they are not late. And Moria's talking about a delay. But I'll say one more thing about Mr. Papatheodorou and close. The suspected Member, Mr Papatheodorou, - because he has referred to me - is well-known in the local society for his struggles, for the anti-fascist and anti-racist struggle in Lesvos for many years. Unfortunately, next to the so-called patriots - racists - fascists in the previous period, officials of your party were hand-to-hand and shouted, as they cried out for indemnity to be granted as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u489	Thank you. The parliamentary representative of the Democratic Association, Mr Theocharopoulos, has the floor for twelve minutes. Then Mrs Triantafyllou follows. Here, Mr. Theocharopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u490	Ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that the bill debate never takes place under laboratory conditions. It's influenced by the current events. So we cannot remain unaffected by the general political developments, especially in the assessment, which, as we have seen today, the government is rejoiceful. There is, of course, no reason why. The evaluation has not been closed. The negotiation, which you have been doing, has led to a reduction in pensions and a reduction in the tax-free rate, in what you said, namely that you have had red lines so far. At the same time, we have also had the Finance Minister's jokes since the morning, who has not given any meaningful answers today. As he said, however, even on Tuesday he is ready to give substantial answers. We have made it clear to you - and we have told you today - that we want the evaluation to be closed without any new, unacceptable measures, what all the institutions and Parliament's Budget Office are saying to you that if you had made progress in time, in 2016 at the appropriate time, without delusion, the Greek society would have been closed and would not have been afflicted either by uncertainty or by these new measures. At the same time, your Government has inherent difficulties in implementing reforms. It systematically avoids them all this time. If it had moved on, things would have been different. Of course, we are again at point zero, again with our backs on the wall - we experienced them again in 2015 - again with a lack of confidence by all the partners, because, after all, the dishonoring preventive legislation means exactly what it means. In this climate, then, we are discussing today another bill, a bill - a broom, which only signs of a reformist culture do not show. The exact opposite happens. Obviously, it is not about the bill of the Ministry of Interior that your government has committed itself for a long time to regulate all open issues of self-government. Of the forty - eight articles in the bill, only a few relate to matters of self-government. Others include provisions of other ministries. What became of the forty - four articles given in public consultation? One would expect a sound, legal and costly bill at last while in front of a clipboard. It doesn't solve the problems. Once again, then, hopes of justice, equality and dignity are being disproved. You have supported them in an election, which is why I refer to them. There is not all of this, but the invocation of disobedience and delusion cannot be, not at least after two years in power. Ladies and gentlemen, I am opposed to the first chapter on the establishment of European political parties and foundations, with which we have told you that we are in agreement, because it covers an existing gap. We're moving on with the multi-faceted public administration. SYRIZA said the strategic objective was to ensure full and stable work, and the aim of his proposals was transparency in public administration. At the same time, it conquered the hostage to fixed-term contractors or work in municipalities and other services in the narrowest and wider public sector. That's really nice. After all, we also support a state that is effectively, efficiently, which will be the key lever of the country's effort to relocate, decentralise the state by upgrading local self-government and establish new procedures with transparency and merit. Is there any of this? Absolutely nothing. The opposite is true. We have seen it two years now: the sloppy way in which government work is handled, the promotion of regulations, and most of the time the word is changed. We're used to that word. Besides, you renamed the troika to institutions, quartet. Same thing. Citizens understand. They have knowledge and judgment. Aifne, then, simulations from the window are restored and revealed real industrial relations. You move on to extensions of contracts, often in breach of the law and of the Constitution, inventing solutions of dubious constitutionality, such as the abolition of the Court of Auditors' powers of auditing for the issue of financial orders for state expenditure, because the payment of contractors should be made, with which we, of course, are not opposed. We've made it clear. But we disagree with the way you go. Moreover, you are turning against the mayors, against the Commissioners of the Court of Auditors, and at the same time you cannot give us a certain number of what you want to permanently perpetuate through the extensions, as you do not tell us why, if they meet permanent needs, the normal procedure is not followed. And you come after the rally and the reaction that was provoked, tell us that you intend the next period - which we also do not know what it is - in a systematic way, call the parties, to record all cases of contractors, to reveal their real relationships and to identify a specific framework. Why didn't it happen earlier? What prevented you two years now - I mean your government, because you were not an Interior Minister for both years - from calling the parties and trying together to find a legal and lasting solution? You don't mean that. Evade each time to cover an unresolved and without any serious planning and planning policy for the public administration and the administrative reform of the state. We remember earlier policies, such as 2007-2009, which led to a crisis context in the country, because the crisis came at that time with a public enlargement, which was done without a plan. We do not mean finding jobs for people who have to find themselves with a plan to bring private economy and public finances into harmonious coexistence with the public sector. That's our target. But instead of that, in 2007-2009, there had been virtually an intake, without criterion, of everything. So because we see that on that side of the New Democracy you have selective relationships and partnerships - as you refer to in your public statements and you personally - that is why we are concerned. And we are concerned because we see that the same practices that have brought us to the crisis are likely to be repeated today. You are trying to replace or amend provisions that you yourself have promoted. Do you really think that inability or inefficiency to negotiate will be covered by appointments of officials on criteria that are not worthy and not to apply laws, even yours? Do you really think these are the appropriate steps leading to democracy and transparency, which you so often invoke? Do you believe that even so will you ensure proper and adequate staffed services that will ensure the public interest? Minister, last year the Single Mobility System Act was passed. With the draft law under discussion, you are modifying it and introducing transitional power arrangements. In other words, the possibility of transfers and secondments at the transitional stage between now and the start of the new system of mobility in the public sector is being widened. The regulation is necessary to meet the immediate needs of public services. What does the government do to move on with the new mobility system? Because, obviously, the exceptional and exceptional arrangements, even if they are made to meet the immediate needs, do not constitute good administration and in fact cancel the new mobility system. Furthermore, it is not clear what criteria have been made to increase the exemptions from the mobility system. Unfortunately, it turns out every day that it is only you to control the state now. This is a concept that is the problem, it is the beginning of the problem. The point is to build a worthwhile structure, not you to control the state now. The system of customer relations and anxiety will therefore only stop when brave reforms are agreed, even if they result in political costs. And because we are talking about reforms, I should like to tell you that we are talking about progressive reforms, which relate to the positions of social democracy and not yours. And because you have wondered in your protology about the positions of social democracy and what is being done abroad and what we have in this context, we should tell you that exactly these positions are those that we have in our programmes, which you do not have. What do you mean? The harmonious coexistence of the public with the private sector, the creation of a state that will be developmental, which will create, have quality public services in the critical areas of education, health, security, a development state that will exist at the same time as a competitive private economy that will produce jobs. We do not believe in a policy of recycling poverty, in which you, your Government, go ahead, which has nothing to do with modern social democracy today. You have also tried again with an amendment that came to your bill, but fortunately you withdrew it, to remove the provisions - an article in your bill in the committees - to ban the placing of pesticides, whose date of use has expired, creating serious problems for public health, farmers and the environment. A year ago you tried, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, the government's majority, precisely the same, to pass a similar provision. But under pressure at the time of the Democratic Association you withdrawn it. Again, you withdrew it after our fierce reaction. You also went to abolish the Agricultural Prices Observatory. You have disproved all your election promises in the agricultural sector as well. From where you have formulated, among other things, the social right to access healthy foods, to environmental protection, you have reached the point where you are transporting and changing, to abolish the date of use of agricultural medicines. This goes beyond the word 'adjustment'. In terms of agronomic science, you will allow me to tell you that it is a "transition". Finally, because the previous speaker referred to the refugee question, I would like to say to you this: your government's policy has failed the refugee question. We've made it clear. We've told you. We think it's clear. There is no doubt that there are responsibilities both at European and international level. We recognise that crisis management is difficult. But it is not tolerable after two years to be in this situation in our country. We have told you about the amendment, which you have brought - and Mr Papatheodorou, to which the previous speaker of the SYRIZA referred many times - that what we are asking is that you withdraw the amendment on refugee, because the way these people are actually paid - which must be paid - shows hypocrisy and racism. And that's because you can't take that money that way. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. In addition, you agreed on this at the end. That is our problem, and that is why we told you to find a legal way to avoid charging these problems to refugees and immigrants. That is what you must do. You do not do this once again. Dear Members, our country will not come out of the crisis in this way. We in the Democratic Reconciliation think that only with national understanding can we get out of the crisis. We are constantly putting the national over the party interest, which is why we are calling for this national understanding. SYRIZA and the New Democracy continue not to do so. They continue to have a reasonable polarization sterile logic, which does not come out of the crisis. It's far from his needs today. At last there must be a policy, another logic, which will bring jobs and get the country out of the crisis. That's the bet from here on out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u491	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and operated, forty-four students and students and three educational sessions from the 2nd High School of Toumba of Thessaloniki. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Papachristopoulos has the floor for twelve minutes. He is the last parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u492	Thank you, Madam President. Two days ago, Prosecutor Gregory Peponnes - for those who remember him - appealed to one - in my opinion - a provocative decision according to which of the nineteen managers of ENERGA and HELLAS POWER only three would go to jail, while for the others there was a suspensive effect. I have appealed to this scandalous decision in my opinion. I think the judges are judged too. We are talking about an embezzlement of about 250 million from the raisin of millions of Greeks. That means something changes in justice. I would also like to mention - I am starting a little unorthodox, but so much has been said in this Chamber and many colleagues are squeezing the finger, and indeed very insistently - in the fact that the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay sent the conclusion on the loans of parties and SMEs - 1.3 billion for the media and 400 million for the parties - to the Prosecutor of Corruption, Mr Athanasios. The pillars of the system in this Chamber had again been magnified, 'coals the treasure!' etc.- Oh, my God! I would also like to remind you that soon the trial of SIEMENS begins, a word that some are avoiding. They don't even want to hear it. Mr Christoforikos' secretary and Christoforikos himself - who is unavoidable - have kept all the names of the appointments. No one belongs to today's government party or to its partners. Nobody! Nobody! I still want to remind you - I will go a little earlier, but I will be very brief - that we have once changed hands on the stock market and no one has been punished. They literally changed hands, with the fault of the then government, which does not remember and does not make self-criticism. I want to go a little later and remind you of what happened in the Olympic Games scheduled for 5 billion and reached 40 billion. An incredible party! I would also like to remind you of what was happening in the Rural Bank, where, literally, whoever was, who was friendly to the administration, went and got a loan. Thirty-three-three-five names with addresses. The bank itself later sold badly against 95 million - laughs at every bitter one! - when only the value of its building is EUR 1 billion. He's on Edward Lo Street. You should go check it out. The words "Ministry of National Defence" were almost identical to the misery, and the synergies went to hatreds. You were listening to the words "Ministry of National Defence" and your mind went right to hatreds. I don't want to remind them now and scratch wounds. This government had to come and forget about it and destroy it. Nineteen cases are running in justice. I do not want to remind you of what happened at CEDEFOP and what happened with the party in the field of health, where decent ministers went through, I have to confess, but they didn't take it. They probably didn't see, they didn't listen. Let me just remind you that when this government received it, a year later it was close to a billion deficit. After a frontal collision with the complication, he delivered 35 million surpluses. Let me remind you that one minister after the other who dared to mess with the strand was being targeted. One of them is present here, Mr. Skourlet, who did the same thing. Instead of looking at some people's interests, he dealt with the whole prefecture. You know, Halkidiki has a hundred thousand or so. The SYRIZA Parliament knows very well and has played great games and we must all respect it. Spirjis who delivered works that were late for twenty years, not to say for thirty years, delivers one knot after another. I was going to my village in danger of being killed. Now I'm going safe. He was targeted, too. They apologized to him. The point is, those who target them, after a while, knees go and apologize. We've seen it many times. Nikos Papas, Cretsos and all the children dared to collide with the "minimum dictatorship", the one that we pay it EUR 1.300,000, and the pillars of the system in this Chamber still defend it. It is, he says, seventy objections and licences must not be granted, even after the decision of the Council of State, which says, "Find children you are illegal for many years". Let me remind you that the Theanoo Fotio - I speak by names - has achieved the impossible. People who went to the dumpsters, people who are still fed by the arrays of the Church and the municipalities, bring them together, reincorporate them. These are the results of good governance. Approximately seven hundred thousand people will benefit from the social solidarity allowance. I would also remind you that this disgrace you were dying in order to get your pension - it took three and four years, I've felt it to doctors from the National Health System - has almost been adjusted in three months - and I think later and sooner - every worker will be retired. The list of things that are happening in this country is endless at the moment. And yet, we've been listening to the thousand millions in the last few days. Why? I'll say it again. I said it in the morning in my speech because I was induced. The scenario has been released, and the danger, that on Monday - you know that politics is not done in this Chamber, it is done on the websites, where payrollers with non-existent websites are moving a false news - the Prime Minister will make a lecture. And the even more fake news was that all the funds are being scanned. Did you see them? Do you want me to remind you of some false news and how a piece of the political system works right now? For one month, three ministers were active killers. It had to be a month and it was to be broken up by newspapers, by parliamentary representatives. May I remind you that they've come to say about the Prime Minister's house that he's in auction and the journalist apologized? May I remind you that the Pope was making 50,000 euros a day and asked for a kneely apologies? Let me remind you that a lady in journalism said that the Minister has funds abroad, and when she was sued, a kneemaker apologized to him? I could tell you thirty, forty examples. I mention as tangible proof that this government has made mistakes, it has said too much. We were unaware of danger, we admit it. But one thing we didn't do. We didn't put our hand in honey. I have said this again - and all the Members of the Chamber say so - that we are not here to get rich. Anybody who puts his hand in the honey knows he's gonna be cut off, like he cut off to the two employees of the IPTO. I don't have anything with people. It will be instantly, as with offshore, as has been done many times in this Chamber when we ourselves denounce them. I would like to remind you of the following: no one loved us for what happened. Trump's unpredictable. The extreme right movements in Europe fly like mushrooms. They're afraid of Lepen, what's going to happen in France. Already Wilders is coming first party in the Netherlands. They're losing the lead. The Italian banking system is dubious, ready. Nobody knows what's gonna happen. No one loved us. And we saw the IMF slowly, the unscrupulous IMF that never went away from its positions - because it seems that some people don't know how to interpret and the facts - we saw Mrs Lagard for the first time in years saying 'Okay, you guys, let's not be a haircut, I'll take an escalation', etc. We saw Mr. Thompsen talking about excesses. On the other hand, we have a Erdogan who is desperate and therefore unpredictable. I do not believe that the great danger is Erdogan, and the government does well and maintains a terrible cool attitude. On the other hand, the political scene comes to Germany for the first time after a decade in Schröder and the twelve points are reduced. Body with body goes Sultz with Merkel. I'm not saying he's going to win. They know, however, that it may not even be a government in the September elections. You know, political time is small, dense. Ten days of politics can be centuries. There can be shocking things. I say this because I hear 'What happened every day', etc. So the following things have been done. Firstly, the respected Certified Opposition will have to find another slogan. The elections didn't come out because they won't. Secondly, the word 'Grexit' is something like exorcising the devil. There isn't, and there won't be. What does that mean? These are data: We have some negotiating power. Have we completely exhausted her? Oh, no. Did we make retreat? Yeah. In a negotiation, you're going to retreat. The Minister present here himself has said 'Yes, children, in a negotiation there will also be some retreats'. I'll tell you something. May the QE go back a month. But it'll come out. That means - and don't consider me as an etherist - immediately EUR 4 billion and the EUR 6.5 billion in July are going away. Then it comes summer. I strongly believe - frankly I am telling you - that Klaus Reggling himself made great advertising all over the planet. It was the biggest ISO we could get. He clearly said that the EUR 86 billion in the third memorandum will not be needed. A two-digit number of billions of euros will be left behind. Neither SYRIZA nor ANEL say that. Reggling himself praised us, because we returned the EUR 2 billion from Finansbank, which shows credibility. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] One and a half minutes, Madam President. Besides, I'm the last one. They had us for 0.03% growth and under conditions of economic suffocation we made +0.3%. All rating houses that were never polite to us give us over 2.5% over the next four years. What does that mean? We're fucked up, but 617 million euros didn't get it. We shared them and had incredible reactions to self-evident. Where did we split them? Anyone rich? We shared it to those who take 800 euros and down and maintain another six. I think something's changing. Already right now, everyone believes that Greece has been orbited by development. They are struggling in this Chamber to monopolist that they are for investment. Oh, no. We too are in favour of investment, but under rules, on terms, as was done in Sweden, Denmark, in all these countries. Not too much profits, not five families, who even today unregulate these families. Why is that? Finally, I will talk about credibility. If I owe a grand to someone, I'm ashamed to look him in the eye and I can't give him any hint. That's how my mom and dad taught me. I'll be a SYRIZA MP's attorney. Their party holds 40%. And a EUR 7.5 million loan is being repaid. Every year they give 420,000 euros. Ask you to know. Do the same for you, so your word can be true. You owe 400 million euros. You have an answer. You have to give them up. You're supporting as pillars in 1,400,000 euros. These 400,000,000 euros concern you. What's your credibility? How do you look at me in the eye when you've dived money from Greek citizens? I'm finishing up and I'm saying this. This bill was enforced. It's not about a ministry. It's more than five, and you all know it. It's about the Ministry of Justice, Homeland and others, not to say it again. It had to be done. And many things had to be regulated, many of which are very fair. I think it is in the right direction and I think it will be voted for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u493	Now the speaker's circle begins. Let's see how many and how many will take the floor. I see two Members, like Mrs Manolakou, Mr Gregorakos and Mr Saridis. You've got four minutes. Let's follow the classic show. Mr. Chogas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u494	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill responded to its critics and accused his prosecutors in a very simple way, forced them to accept many of his articles. In many of these they were dragged in a hinting logic and an aggression charge, practically they colluded. And on three of what I consider to be a very great profit for the whole process, namely Articles 25, 32 and 40 of the old regulation, I think they have drawn up the lines of our horizons, us and the New Democracy, us and the maintenance. I think, Mr Minister, that the dividing lines of the differences in ideological and political policies to which they can be expressed under Rule 25 have been analysed in committee and in a very proper and mudsome way, eloquent. Obviously, the different perceptions focus on the answer given to the last committee by the spokesman of the New Democracy, who said that the solution to this story is the courts. We have not said that the solution is the courts, we have said that the solution is an overall response, from the overall effort that must come from a universal consultation of the parties, a cross-party consultation to put an end to the hostage of the clearers. That was our answer and he set out a number of issues. Article 32 has also been given a response of an ideological and political nature beyond the other technical features. In fact it was expressed by Nikos Paradopoulos, that eventually the direction towards the disclosure of the mortgages also indicates the possibilities of the public sector in the difficult circumstances, where the private initiative is removed, to undertake work. And Article 40 is a classic difference between us, a classic distance between the attempt made by SYRIZA to date for migration, for refugees to give issues, to give solutions, without stopping the effort, but it is a constant and endless effort until the complete completion of this work. We're proud of this. I would like to say two things, Madam President, even now. I cannot understand what such parliamentary anachronism was, according to which almost all of the Anti-Population, and in particular the New Democracy, had objections to the skeleton of the bill, that is, if we had a prologue, mainly the issue and an epilogue, and if that is not there, it is a bad bill and if it is a bad bill, it is a bad government. From a bill, therefore, which technically, according to subjective perceptions, is not correct, then the government is not going well. And I say the previous bill was like this. So he's stepping right? So what is this tragic contradiction that's chasing you? I am impressed by this fact and, above all, that they did not understand or wish to see the fact that the bill was, in fact, in the provisions and scope of the Rules of Procedure, which says that in the first debate, we are interested in the purpose, objective and basic principles of the bill. These were expressed through the concept of accelerating governmental work. No one resisted or disagreed or said that this was inconsistent with the acceleration. We were just sticking to technical features. This, in my view, suggests that it was the inability to express a political argument, against an excellent bill, and it obviously indicated the political despair of each speaker. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. I just wanted to say two more things. Yes, it was made in line with the lenders, with the creditors, with the institutions, that it became an engagement with criminal clauses, which we would call financial clauses. Even if the financial clauses that we made -1 euros -1 euros, 1 euros, or even vice versa with a zero balance are not complied with - we will not agree. We will try to reverse this fact for the benefit of the whole, for the benefit of the Greek society. That's our place. And, of course, the festival that had been established collapsed, because obviously we have a game over, because we are obviously at a new era, where through this process that has already begun, we look forward to improving the Greek economy, the Greek society. And I'm closing up with one last observation. In relation to what Mr Tsakalotou said about the fact that he did not say exactly the truth, that he actually follows the second assessment, the QE, I would like to say, that the Minister said exactly what was expressed through what he said. The fact of when the country will become a part of quantitative relaxation does not have to do with certain special agreements, but it is a matter which concerns the European Central Bank, which will articulate, when the conditions under which we move, will be these particular conditions which will force or facilitate the bank to enter into this logic. That's it, and I think he's misunderstood. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u495	Thank you, Mr. Choga. Here, Mr Georgioda, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u496	Minister, I must recognise an ideological and substantial consequence of some issues that your Ministry and the Ministry of Administrative Reform have dealt with, such as the cleanliness of public buildings in Greece. What are you gonna do no more barbarians? Because by the end of 2017 you have attempted and it seems that you have resolved the matter. You have solved the question of payment, you have solved legalization issues. But you also have to deal with other issues. You know the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Administrative Reform, the Ministry of Finance, have too many issues that concern a lot of people, who expects you to deal with them too. You have raised to a privileged person for you - and you think it is a privileged field for you - the issue of contractors, which is provided for in the Constitution. If you want, in the proposals that you will be tabling on the Revision of the Constitution, we have a very nice article - I agree with it now - so that there are no fixed-term contracts. We are therefore abolishing Article 103 of the Constitution which distinguishes this form of work. This is our Constitution. There will therefore be no fixed-term contracts and where the public needs to meet a stable and lasting need for us to have permanent staff. But the question is what will happen until then, Minister, until the Revision of the Constitution. Because we also need to see that there is. But you know you will not suggest it, because you want this to be recycled, there will always be fixed-term contracts, hostages to you, expectations to be created and to come legalised. I believe that this is finally your real intention on this subject. In any case, I also look forward to other initiatives by the relevant ministries on many other issues which are of concern to other civil servants, who are also employing people who are unemployed and who have hoped to work - but you are currently deprived of this possibility, as these jobs have been closed down - private sector people, professionals and unemployed people. I hope that you will come and bring some jobs to those who are, in fact, unemployed in the private sector and who expect that government to fulfil its promises to the minimum. In relation to some of the amendments I have to explain the position of the New Democracy. In the Ministerial Amendment No 935 concerning compensation to Moria in Lesbos 'yes', even though late, even in this way. We recognise the need to restore the harm of these people, but we want this to be more coordinate. The best of all would be that there would be no such damage and a favoured state to protect its citizens from such damage, which is being dealt with. They're not theories, you know. We cannot deal with the natural disasters. In any case, there are other parts of Greece, where such an excessive burden existed. I would like to believe that I am sad but also seriously and responsibly confronted with these cases. In Amendment No 936 we will say'residents' as we understand the need for the municipalities to be able to pay the sums from final judicial decisions or payment orders, but it would be better to have a picture of why these obligations were not paid. In other words, if it is a simple civil obligation, which has not been paid, we understand it being paid. But if criminal offences are involved, which have a parallel route with any civil obligation, which we cannot know about and for which no one has informed us, we cannot be positive, we are not negative, we will vote 'at present'. With regard to Amendment 940, which Mr Pappas has actually brought, we shall vote 'yes', but subject to the following reservation: we do not disagree about the feasibility of this regulation, in which, in fact, a solution must be found to the issue that has arisen, because some independent authorities are not functioning, can no longer be served. But, on the other hand, we think it is incomprehensible that the provision, as formulated, should be better formulated. We're afraid and hope you don't come back. But as it's printed, we're afraid you're gonna have to come back. In any case, because we understand its usefulness and feasibility, we will be voting in favour of it. Also, in the Parliamentary Amendment No 933 concerning civil servants from border regions, our position will be 'at present', for the following reason: in some cases there may have been objective weaknesses without the official's fault, which would have led to the inability of him to fulfil the obligation for the housing allowance. But when you talk about childbirth leave, there are two types of childbirth leave: The one you get unpaid leave, which can be both two and three and four years, or the one you take which is, in fact, for childbirth. If it was just for child rearing, nine months, I don't know how much it is for a few months, we'd understand it, but it's not specified, when you're talking about child rearing leave, what exactly you mean. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Madam President. And, of course, on pensions, there are some issues. In any case, we cannot discredit the article, but it has to be more detailed and more precise the conditions laid down, so we will vote'residents'. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u497	Thank you, Mr. Georgioda. Mrs Manolakou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u498	No amendments were accepted by the JRC. It doesn't surprise us. All concerned workers and injustices against them either made redundant by a few mayors, who refuse to apply the law to extend their work or to disabled people, who are able to work for them. You don't. Otherwise you can show yourself a charity to mock and camouflage that this government also serves and works for its needs for greater profitability. Of course, I cannot comment on the New Democracy, which, when he hears of recruitment, even for poor paid and limited-time jobs, creeps out. There are people fighting for dignity and a right to work and you must recognise it. For Amendment No 941. It is a step towards the transfer of serious sectors related to the functioning of the public health system by the State to local government, transferring and the responsibility of funding for the development, operation, supply of health materials and machinery and services from the state budget to local government (a) and (b) degrees. In other words, the implementation of this will depend on whether the municipalities and regions have money. Therefore, by regulation, the people will also be subject to municipal fees and taxation in order to implement these measures, arguing that they are in the interests of the health of the people and given the reduction in state funding, but also the poor economic situation of municipalities and regions due to sub-funding by the State. These are the restructurings of Mr Tsakalotou, as are the reduction in duty-free and toweling pensions. Eventually what's left of the public health system is pouring out and shrinking into the literality. For the articles on Security Bodys dealing with existing problems, on the issues of police personnel, which you are trying to ease, - because there is now a long protest about privileged and racist treatment of police officers who sent the internal affairs service on non-transparent criteria - we consider that more comprehensive arrangements are necessary to resolve the problems of the internal functioning of the ELAS, which is why we are expressing ourselves with'represent'. For Articles 43, 44, 45 relating to crises, promotions to the Port House, we consider that the Government is intervening in the criteria for transfers in a fragmentary and selective manner. The trade unions have also said enough about their serious reservations. There have also been no recruitments of medical and nursing staff, even those approved by the troika. We express ourselves with 'white'. As far as the mortgages are concerned, it has a fragmentary character. We are positive about converting all mortgages into public services, with the corresponding reduction in costs for the traders. But we have reservations about how it is done. It seems to maintain the possibility of mergers with which we disagree, because there must be a service for residents in different regions and not be obliged to travel long distances, especially for the islands. In Amendment No 935 on the Moria of the Municipality of Lesvos, we are voting for it with a heavy heart because it is necessary to compensate farmers, but the way and origin of this money is burdening us. We don't agree. We shall vote on a number of articles and ministerial amendments, which give some solutions to people's problems for a short time. In other articles we are expressing ourselves with'residents' because they are semi-metres and we are voting against what is against the people's interests. Finally, for the decision to acquittal the mayor Patras, Kostas Peletlidis, it is a victory of popular mobilisation, expressed throughout the previous period, on the basis of the political attitude of the mayor and municipal council, and shows that the actions and actions of the Nazi criminal Golden Dawn can be cancelled, such as the judicial prosecution attempted against the mayor. At the same time, the attitude of the Communist mayor is an example for the regional authorities and above all for the mass institutions of the people, so that there is a decisive response and isolation of the Golden Dawn, without any tolerance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u499	Thank you, Mrs Manolakou. Mr. Saridis has the floor for four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u500	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have been placed at the outset and on the articles in the committees. We have not, however, been placed on the amendments which have come here today. That is exactly what I would like to say today, namely the position of the Central Group on the amendments. As regards Amendment 930, which deals with the regulation of matters of competence of the Ministry of National Defence, we understand why this amendment is coming and we shall vote in favour of it. It is Article 47, as I see just now, in the situation that we have been given. With regard to Amendment No 931, an amendment to supplement certain provisions of Law 4412 relating to the operation of the principle of review of references, is necessary, as we see them from our side on a very important subject. We are therefore voting in favour of the smooth start of the work of the principle of preliminary rulings. As regards Amendment 932, a regulation on issues relating to the functioning of the financial stability fund and the selection committee of its members, we will agree and vote in favour. We will say 'yes'. You will find it hard to find people who meet the necessary conditions, but that is because the balances that need to be maintained in the administration of the fund are only too thin and it takes a strong stomach so that they cannot be offended by the fires, which will accept every day for decisions taken by the parties involved. Amendment No 935. Payment of compensation to natural and legal persons in the municipality of Lesvos. We say 'yes', Minister, and in this amendment, but what, in fact, you are going to legislate and you are doing it in Moria, you should do so in other areas, which may be in the same situation as the Moria region. We will therefore support this amendment, so that we too can send out the message that the locusts are not on their own. Amendment No 936. Settle matters in relation to the repayment of the municipality's obligations by final judicial decisions. 'Yes' will also be said in this amendment. On the other hand, you have not answered us, Minister, what you meant in Article 16 for some of the corresponding, essentially, obligations to be paid back to the municipalities. Amendment 939. Improve matters relating to the compliance of the public administration with judicial decisions, we will say 'no', Minister. You're obliging the mayors to comply with judicial decisions. That is not the way to solve the problems, Minister. Reinforce injustices and sow discord. We will not support this course from our side. In Amendment No 940 we will say 'no'. You will have to come back, as has been said in this amendment. As far as Amendment No 941, the provision is concerned, but the choice of the Ministry is incomprehensible. However, we recognise the need to move forward and vote in favour of this amendment. As regards the number of Amendment No 942, it is the well-known extensions that we follow up for the Music Concert. We can't leave people unpaid. I do not know, of course, from the other side until when this choice of government will continue with the practice of prolongation and postponement. Sometime it'll have to end. Amendment No 924 concerns donations from the earthquake in Kefalonia. Of course we agree. The solidarity and assistance offered to friends in Kefalonia who have suffered earthquake damage is a given one. Finally, Amendment No 934 will say 'yes'. The need has not been sufficiently substantiated and we do not believe that the problem is solved. However, from our side, we will be voting in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u501	Thank you, too. Now we will give the floor to the Minister. Minister, how long will it take? Four minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u502	Yeah, that's enough. Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, when I spoke today, I promised you that on Tuesday I would respond to a quiz that I had put. As far as I can see, we are now - and I am glad to say - having to tell you which minister was involved in this report. He was at Law 3758/2009 and said that the servants on 1 November 2008 in the archaeological site of the Acropolis and the rest of the archaeological sites and museums, which had completed on that date a service of twenty-four months - I repeat, twenty-four months after being recruited by the Ministry of Culture and while it was with a fixed-term contract, could from that date remain in the same positions as an annual contract and an extension for an additional year. It was Mr. Samaras. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point the Minister of Interior Mr Panagiotis (Panos) Skourletis submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Department of Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would also like to refer to the Court of Auditors' decisions on the legalisation of extensions to clean-up contracts. They are 2010 and 2009 by contractors, contracts which were extended by way of derogation from the provisions. I'm tabling them for the Minutes, too. [[At this point, Minister Panagiotis (Panos) Skourletis submits for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I am pleased, Mr Georgioda, that at least at the very last moment you recognise that the amendment on contractors brings results and solves the matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u503	Is that what you understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u504	That's what you said. It's registered in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u505	I said you tried.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u506	I am sincerely pleased that, today, a solution is being given to an issue which should not exist even in those cases where the mayors concerned have not extended or refused to pay these people. Of course you have spoken very sincerely about your own perception of the issue of waste management and the role that self-government should play. I think that, in fact, you are responding to the government's invitation to sit down and discuss the issue of contractors in a systematic way. I imagine you will admit that the notion of contractors and contracts has not been discovered by us in the new Greek state. I imagine that's what we agree with. So I hope that you will be consistent with what you said a moment ago, namely sitting on a cross-party initiative, in a systematic way to see which of the cases....
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u507	Don't falsify my words. I spoke of a constitutional review.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u508	Please, if you want to undo...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u509	For Constitutional Review I spoke ten minutes ago
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u510	There are the Minutes. It's a pleasure to meet you. If you want me not to be happy, I'm not happy. What can I say?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u511	Do what you want. You're all happy anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u512	I thought you understood something through this conversation. However, I would like to dwell on two or three points which have come to my attention and which I refer to the position taken by Mr Papatheodorou. I would like to dwell on Mr Papatheodorou's position, because I never expected him to take a distance from this place, to take away from a regulation on the issue of citizenship. I considered some sensitivities to be given, and when we come to some committees within the framework of decentralised administration, without substituting them, to say that a representative of secondary education - and you all understand why, in any case, this case cannot be judged by people outside society - you come and criticize us. Either you didn't understand or honestly it's a wrong signal given by your space on such a critical subject. As regards the amendment tabled by the JRC for disabled people, I think it is in the right direction. However, because it had a number of specific legislative issues, we reserve it to reintroduce it in the next period, as we understand it in a more correct way. Finally, Mrs Manolakou, I honestly do not understand your position in relation to the possibility of programming contracts between grades 1 and 2 and health structures. Where and how'd you figure out that we're going to replace the public health system? To enable regions to support certain specific needs at this time also, does it mean that we are changing the nature of the public health system?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u513	Will they be financed for that responsibility?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u514	I really think it's a bad thing on your side. In the end, I believe that it is not right for you not to support it. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not my question - and I am referring to Mr Theoharopoulos - about what is taking place in the context of European social democracy. I am sorry about the attitude of the domestic version, which seems to be unaware of what is going on. In any case, I was very clear. Clearly, because you cannot have people who are mutant social democrats, they are essentially neoliberal. And that seems, not only because they defend their respective choices when they were in things, but for what they say today. And that doesn't help your own strategic determination. We are always talking from the territory of the Left, but we are interested in creating conditions for the creation of a majority block of social and political forces, which will bring about changes in Greece and Europe. This is our concept of social and political alliances. Finally, I would like to say that, of course, the issue of unemployment is one of the top, it is a priority for this government. And in the criticism you made of the decision in the last Eurogroup, you underestimated the great proclamation, the great news of the loan from the World Bank of 3 billion, which will be directed to the creation of new jobs. We do not separate workers from those employed in the public and private sectors. I'm afraid you're doing this, gentlemen of the New Democracy. And you do, precisely because you are committed to various ideological obsessions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u515	Thank you, too, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Interior: "Additional measures to implement the Rules of Procedure (EU, EURATOM) 1141/2014 on European political parties and institutions, measures to speed up the government's work of the Ministry of Interior and other provisions". Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u516	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u517	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u518	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u519	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u520	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u521	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u522	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u523	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u524	Therefore, the draft law of the Ministry of Interior: ‘Additional measures implementing Regulation (EU, Euratom) 1141/2014 on European political parties and institutions, measures to speed up the government work of the Ministry of the Interior and other provisions’, was accepted in principle by a majority. We are entering the motion for a resolution. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u525	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u526	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u527	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u528	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u529	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u530	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u531	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u532	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u533	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u534	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u535	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u536	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u537	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u538	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u539	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u540	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u541	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u542	Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 3 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u543	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u544	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u545	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u546	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u547	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u548	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u549	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u550	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u551	Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 4 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u552	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u553	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u554	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u555	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u556	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u557	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u558	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u559	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u560	Article 4 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u561	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u562	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u563	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u564	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u565	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u566	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u567	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u568	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u569	Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u570	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u571	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u572	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u573	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u574	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u575	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u576	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u577	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u578	Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 7 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u579	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u580	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u581	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u582	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u583	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u584	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u585	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u586	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u587	Article 7 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Article 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u588	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u589	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u590	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u591	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u592	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u593	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u594	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u595	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u596	Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 9 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u597	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u598	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u599	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u600	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u601	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u602	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u603	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u604	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u605	Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u606	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u607	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u608	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u609	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u610	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u611	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u612	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u613	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u614	Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 11 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u615	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u616	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u617	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u618	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u619	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u620	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u621	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u622	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u623	Article 11 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u624	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u625	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u626	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u627	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u628	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u629	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u630	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u631	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u632	Article 12 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 13 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u633	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u634	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u635	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u636	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u637	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u638	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u639	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u640	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u641	Article 13 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 14 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u642	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u643	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u644	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u645	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u646	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u647	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u648	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u649	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u650	Article 14 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 15 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u651	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u652	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u653	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u654	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u655	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u656	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u657	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u658	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u659	Article 15 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 16 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u660	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u661	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u662	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u663	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u664	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u665	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u666	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u667	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u668	Article 16 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 17 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u669	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u670	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u671	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u672	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u673	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u674	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u675	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u676	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u677	Article 17 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 18 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u678	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u679	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u680	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u681	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u682	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u683	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u684	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u685	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u686	Article 18 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 19 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u687	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u688	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u689	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u690	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u691	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u692	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u693	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u694	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u695	Article 19 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 20 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u696	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u697	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u698	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u699	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u700	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u701	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u702	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u703	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u704	Article 20 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 21 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u705	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u706	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u707	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u708	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u709	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u710	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u711	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u712	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u713	Article 21 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 22 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u714	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u715	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u716	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u717	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u718	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u719	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u720	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u721	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u722	Article 22 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 23 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u723	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u724	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u725	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u726	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u727	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u728	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u729	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u730	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u731	Article 23 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 24 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u732	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u733	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u734	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u735	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u736	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u737	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u738	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u739	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u740	Article 24 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 25 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u741	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u742	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u743	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u744	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u745	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u746	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u747	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u748	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u749	Article 25 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 26 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u750	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u751	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u752	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u753	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u754	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u755	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u756	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u757	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u758	Article 26 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 27 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u759	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u760	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u761	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u762	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u763	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u764	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u765	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u766	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u767	Article 27 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 28 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u768	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u769	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u770	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u771	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u772	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u773	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u774	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u775	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u776	Article 28 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 29 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u777	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u778	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u779	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u780	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u781	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u782	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u783	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u784	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u785	Article 29 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 30 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u786	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u787	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u788	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u789	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u790	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u791	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u792	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u793	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u794	Article 30 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 31 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u795	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u796	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u797	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u798	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u799	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u800	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u801	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u802	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u803	Article 31 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 32 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u804	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u805	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u806	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u807	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u808	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u809	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u810	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u811	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u812	Article 32 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 33 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u813	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u814	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u815	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u816	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u817	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u818	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u819	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u820	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u821	Article 33 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 34 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u822	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u823	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u824	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u825	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u826	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u827	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u828	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u829	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u830	Article 34 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 35 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u831	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u832	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u833	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u834	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u835	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u836	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u837	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u838	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u839	Article 35 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 36 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u840	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u841	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u842	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u843	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u844	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u845	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u846	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u847	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u848	Article 36 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 37 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u849	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u850	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u851	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u852	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u853	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u854	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u855	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u856	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u857	Article 37 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 38 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u858	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u859	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u860	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u861	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u862	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u863	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u864	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u865	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u866	Article 38 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 39 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u867	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u868	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u869	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u870	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u871	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u872	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u873	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u874	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u875	Article 39 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 40 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u876	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u877	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u878	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u879	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u880	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u881	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u882	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u883	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u884	Article 40 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 41 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u885	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u886	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u887	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u888	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u889	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u890	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u891	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u892	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u893	Article 41 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 42 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u894	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u895	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u896	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u897	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u898	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u899	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u900	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u901	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u902	Article 42 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 43 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u903	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u904	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u905	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u906	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u907	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u908	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u909	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u910	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u911	Article 43 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 44 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u912	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u913	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u914	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u915	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u916	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u917	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u918	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u919	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u920	Article 44 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 45 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u921	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u922	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u923	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u924	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u925	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u926	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u927	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u928	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u929	Article 45 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 46 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u930	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u931	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u932	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u933	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u934	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u935	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u936	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u937	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u938	Article 46 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 47 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u939	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u940	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u941	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u942	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u943	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u944	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u945	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u946	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u947	Article 47 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 48 be accepted in its entirety, which is referred to as an amendment with a general number of 936?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u948	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u949	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u950	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u951	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u952	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u953	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u954	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u955	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u956	Thus, 48 was accepted as it is by a majority. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 931 and a special number 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u957	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u958	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u959	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u960	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u961	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u962	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u963	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u964	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u965	The amendment, under general number 931 and special 10, was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 932 and a special number 11 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u966	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u967	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u968	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u969	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u970	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u971	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u972	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u973	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u974	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 932 and a special 11 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 935 and a special number 14 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u975	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u976	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u977	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u978	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u979	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u980	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u981	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u982	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u983	Therefore, the amendment under general number 935 and a special 14 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 939 and a special 18 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u984	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u985	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u986	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u987	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u988	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u989	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u990	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u991	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u992	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 939 and a special 18 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment under a general number 940 and a special number 19 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u993	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u994	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u995	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u996	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u997	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u998	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u999	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1000	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1001	The amendment, by a general number 940 and a special 19, was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 941 and a special number 20 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1002	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1003	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1004	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1005	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1006	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1007	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1008	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1009	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1010	The amendment, by a general number 941 and a special 20, was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 942 and a special number 21 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1011	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1012	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1013	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1014	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1015	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1016	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1017	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1018	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1019	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 942 and a special 21 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 923 and a special number 2 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1020	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1021	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1022	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1023	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1024	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1025	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1026	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1027	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1028	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 923 and a special 2 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 924 and a special number 3 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1029	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1030	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1031	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1032	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1033	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1034	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1035	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1036	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1037	Therefore, the amendment under general number 924 and a specialist 3 were accepted as it is unanimous and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 933 and a special number 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1038	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1039	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1040	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1041	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1042	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1043	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1044	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1045	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1046	The amendment, under general number 933 and expert 12, was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 934 and a special number 13 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1047	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1048	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1049	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1050	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1051	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1052	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1053	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1054	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1055	Therefore, the amendment under general number 934 and a special 13 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominated article of the bill. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1056	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1057	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1058	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1059	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1060	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1061	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1062	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1063	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1064	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Therefore, the Legislative Decree of the Ministry of Interior: ‘Additional measures implementing Regulation (EU, Euratom) 1141/2014 on European political parties and institutions, measures to speed up the government's work of the Ministry of Interior and other provisions’ was accepted in principle, on articles and on amendments. We shall now proceed to the vote on the entire bill. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1065	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1066	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1067	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1068	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1069	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1070	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1071	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1072	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1073	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Interior: ‘Additional measures to implement the Rules of Procedure (EU, Euratom) 1141/2014 on European political parties and institutions, measures to speed up the government's work of the Ministry of Interior and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of articles and all of them and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1074	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1075	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. The Minutes of Monday 12 December 2016, Wednesday 14 December 2016, Thursday 15 December 2016, Friday 16 December 2016, Monday 19 December 2016, Tuesday 20 December 2016 and Wednesday 21 December 2016 have been distributed and the House is asking whether they are validated.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1076	The minutes of Monday 12 December 2016, Wednesday 14 December 2016, Thursday 15 December 2016, Friday 16 December 2016, Monday 19 December 2016, Tuesday 20 December 2016 and Wednesday 21 December 2016 were validated. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to the House in accordance with Rule 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 "Prime responsibility of the Ministers", as is the case, on 23-2-2017, a criminal case for the Minister of National Defence Mr. Panagiotis Kammenos. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-23-S1-commons.u1077	With the consent of the House at 21.19 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, 10.00 p.m., on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: (a) the topical and urgent debate; and (b) the debate on Question No 8/7/2-2-2017 on the agenda.
