ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-27-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS The fifth will be discussed under number 590/13-3-2017 in the second cycle of the New Democracy MP Mr.Ioannis Kefaloyannis on the management of the waste of Zakynthos Prefecture. Mr Skourletis will answer the timely question. Please, Mr. Kefaliannis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-27-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, as a man I do not like overdoes, but I think if anyone describes the situation regarding the management of waste in Zakynthos, a time-consuming problem on the island, I think it would be empirically tragic. This is because on an island of particularly tourists where the public health of its inhabitants is threatened, it is unfortunately very bad to see these images. Let me make it clear to you from the outset that I have not tabled this timely question to possibly highlight micro-party purposes, mistakes and omissions that were also personal disputes that I have been informed about. The situation that the island of Zakynthos is currently experiencing must be resolved. I tabled it, on the other hand, because in three days, and in particular on 30 March, the deadline you have set as the Ministry with the relevant bodies expires, as regards the solution you have chosen for the temporary installation of waste - and as you agreed with the municipality - which we want to believe will put an end to this vicious cycle of inefficiency and will make waste management sustainable for the island. The image I have personally is that we are both close and close. Nearly in the sense that over the last few days, it has been observed that the municipality has been making superhuman efforts through its services in order to collect the mountains, the volumes of these waste that have flooded the island because of this situation in recent weeks but at the same time too far, because, as I said before, a few days before that deadline, the installation of the machinery in the provisional position that you have chosen is not yet in progress. If what I have been transferred, namely that estimates require at least forty to sixty days in order to set up the machinery, you can understand that this deadline of 30 March also seems unrealistic. It follows that the binding timetable agreed at the Ministry on 23 February for the start of the interim solution is not realistic. So I would like to ask you: what is the picture you have of the mobile unit installation course? What are those reasons, which have not yet been allowed to begin the installation of this unit? Is it about the choice of the location, or are there other bureaucratic reasons, such as what I have been informed, that the forestry service does not grant approval? In any case, I would like a first answer on your part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-27-S1-commons.u3	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-27-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. In the description and tragicity of the situation with garbage, we will fully agree. And I think we'll agree on the rest. I would like to say to you that it is to be characterised as being empirically unacceptable in Zakynthos - on an island that exceeds forty thousand and which is one of the most important tourist destinations - that there should be this paralysis in relation to the garbage issue, at least, as I knew the first day I went to the Ministry after the remodeling. Already on November 22, 2016, i.e. about twenty, twenty-five days after the remodeling, I called for a meeting of the Regional Admiral, the Mayor, the President of FITIS, all stakeholders and the decentralised administration, to see what we are going to do. And while there was a agreed timetable with a definition of space, where they would accept the installation of machinery for the temporary solution, I very soon found that nothing had been done in this direction. I had a teleconferencing with them. We sent them letters. On 23 February we called for them to be reinvigorated, and that is where we set this timetable. In response to the mayor, I told him that if the rubbish is not gone by the end of March, it takes sole responsibility and then we will run out on all the legal possibilities we have in order to look for the perpetrators of this situation. I do believe that there is a management incompetence or, in any case, any other kind of purpose to which the mayor is subject and which does not currently select specific, spaced solutions that he has in his hands. There are currently three fully approved and licensed areas for the establishment of the temporary and permanent solution in the Liva area. This permanent installation, of course, takes at least two years to start operating. It's not justified, then. Never had the region responded so quickly, all the services, to have fully licensed areas, three numbers. I'm about to know the whole island out. While each time we leave with an agreement that it is moving forward, we find out that it does not go any further. I do not know what kind of controversy there are, or what other delays associated with specific interests, because you know that many times the easy solution is this: since it is not mature to find and delay the issue, why not choose to transfer the garbage out of the island at excessive cost to the municipality and thus to the public? I think you understand what I'm suggesting. This conversation I have done in the same way as the mayor. However, the mayor, having handed over all the solutions to him, pledged that at the end of March there would be no garbage. Indeed, today before I come to you, I received his letter, which tells me that there will be no garbage until the end of March, but moves the date for putting the interim solution and the machinery for 20 April. It is risky, and it is too much space, because if it succeeds, and at least there are no garbage there is good, if it is just a technical issue, the issue of the installation of machinery and the parceler that has to be there. We are watching the subject and you can be sure that we will activate all the possibilities that the law gives us. You also refer to Law 3536 in your current question. There has so far been no written report that there is a risk to public health and therefore, on the basis of this report, the law should also be automatically activated, but I repeat that if we find that in the next few days the technical installation of machinery is no longer under way, we will obviously do everything we can and will exhaust all the possibilities we have, so that we do not get to even worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-27-S1-commons.u5	Thank you. Mr. Kefaliannis, you have the floor for three minutes for your denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-27-S1-commons.u6	Minister, I understand from your position that the 30 March timetable which has been set is unrealistic, in the sense that the machinery will not have been installed. Of course I have told you before that, as I am aware, in the last few days, very great efforts have been made by the municipality to collect waste, in fact two weeks or ten days before the start of the tourist season. What emerges from today's debate is that we need to see what the responsibilities were in the past, because the information I have, for example, had been chosen for the solution in Liva for several months and did not proceed with the municipality's responsibility, as with other bodies such as the decentralised administration. You'll answer your dentistry. From there on, however, what we care about and which I think is of interest to both the Ministry and the local society even more, is what we do from now on. You said, in fact, that if no solution has been given by 30 March, you will take some action on the part of the Ministry. The 30th of March is in three days from now. I would like you to tell me what exactly you mean, what action you are going to take and what action you are thinking about in the event that, for example, the interim solution has not gone ahead. Because you have also referred to the law that I mention in my timely question about the FVO, I know that this request for public health has not yet been made, but I would like you to have it at the end of your mind, in case there is such a request. If we see that this interim solution is delayed, I think it would be useful to tell the Zakynthos people how you intend in practice to help the municipality, if you consider that there is a delay not so much with responsibility but because of other services. We have to stop this game, the ball of responsibility, if it's the decentralized administration, if it's the municipality's fault, if it's the Ministry. I think what is of interest to everyone there is, in fact, how to resolve the issue. You referred to the transport of garbage outside Zakynthos, and I would like to mention specifically, so that there is no shadow left. I know that there has been a proposal to transfer some of the waste to Thebes as a temporary solution. He's not the first municipality to do it. In any case, it could be part of the solution. You have suggested that there may be specific interests behind this procedure. I would like to believe that this is not the case, but if you have something in mind, I would like you to present it. In any case, though, because this is also part of a temporary solution, I would like a public position to see whether you are totally rejecting the shipment of some of the waste to the FVO of Central Greece. I know there's a positive opinion from the side of the Central Central Greece FESH. If you reject it, why do you reject it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-27-S1-commons.u7	Thank you. Mr Minister, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-27-S1-commons.u8	First of all, there is no responsibility of any kind from the licensing authorities. What you said was not a matter from the decentralised administration, which had not approved the studies. I have approval in my hands for the position of Galaro, for Liva, for the position of Brachion. All of this has been studied and approved. I mean, it's not justified at this time...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-27-S1-commons.u9	Since when, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-27-S1-commons.u10	Before the end of February. March was all clear, so the municipality could operate in one direction or another. In any case, we must understand that a principle should apply to waste management. We can't take them to the neighbor's yard or to another place. Isn't that right? This is what we have chosen for the island and there is an integrated study. And be careful, it's not just at study level. It's money, too. And the money's on the table. There are the studies, the money, the solutions, the final one, the intermediate one. There's no excuse, then. Honestly, I am surprised that the convenience you put on the table as a possible - transitional, I imagine - solution...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-27-S1-commons.u11	Part.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-27-S1-commons.u12	Yeah, but I'm surprised. The opposite should be done. We must put pressure on you, because you realise that these solutions are costly. The cost of who's gonna pay for it? The residents. Through an increase in payroll, or will they ask the central budget to give money, which is in the state it is? Why? Because the municipality doesn't do his job well? So we must be very careful when we generally throw such proposals into the air. What is not provided for by the law is that FITH and the municipality no longer have the management of the garbage. That's the law. The next step is this. In any case, because I have the same information that at the moment the situation is quite shattered to say so, I hope that we will be within the timetables and not have to go into more extreme situations and solutions. However, in any case, we will not let the situation get out of hand and the people of Zakynthos will ultimately be the people who will pay for anyone's inability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-27-S1-commons.u13	Thank you. We move to the sixth under number 587/13-2017 a topical question from the Member of the Parliament of the Republic of Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKK Confusion and its maintenance and safe operation responsibilities’. The State Secretary for Infrastructure and Transport will answer Mr Mavragans. Please, Mr Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-27-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. The northern road axis of Crete, despite the efforts that have been made and made, remains a road without all the safety rules, without the intervention which has been initiated for years to become a modern motorway. Last there is the intention, as announced by the Prime Minister, at the end of 2017 or the beginning of 2018, to auction the BOAK. That is exactly how the Prime Minister referred to Crete. Of course this is something that we know from now on that cannot be done, because even the sections which were studied and funded and auctioned, such as the Panormos-Exante section, have been cancelled because of the well-known procedures. So I ask, with regard to the study that the Ministry intends to commission, if it has not already commissioned, a section of the northern road axis, that is, about half the road from Chania to Hersonissos, what is it going to do? Why is it just this section and it is not the entire northern road axis, which has raised up the bodies of Lassithi, mainly, but also of all Eastern Crete? And of course, what do you intend to do, with regard to the maintenance of this road, for which there have been some decisions by the Council of State following appeals made by citizens? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-27-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-27-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. MEP, look, as you know best from me because of your locality, the northern road axis of Crete, certainly a priority for Crete, for the island, for the Megalonissos, for the last forty years has completed forty kilometers, i.e. about every year one kilometre. We would not call it very efficient. We believe that special emphasis should be given to this area, and that is why we are drawing up a strategic plan for what remains - and, unfortunately, remains - for the completion of the northern road axis, but for this part of the hundred kilometres that has the largest load of traffic, but also on the other hand for some fifty per county, major accidents per year, we are definitely giving us precisely this fact in the priority of the study, construction, maintenance of this road axis, which is part, a thousand kilometres, of the northern road axis. And in this part obviously the decision of S.A., 4/2016, is essential, we cannot bypass it and says that OAS, the Agency for Reconstruction and Development of Crete, has the competence for both maintenance and study and for the construction of this piece. Since, however, the OAS has only twelve employees, as we all know, and it is impossible to deal with the technical details of this large problem, which is particularly important and well done, and you are making it public even greater, that is why the Ministry has to assist, and that is why the programme contract, which I have already been informed here, is that it has been signed between the OAS and the Ministry - at this point is already signed - and that it concerns the assistance of the Ministry of Economic Affairs in completing these specifications so that the OAS can then carry out the entire process of awarding, study, construction, etc. There is therefore no attempt, of course, to divide Crete, but certainly prioritise a part that I repeat has the greatest transport burden and unfortunately has the "principle" of most accidents, deaths and physical damage on the island.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-27-S1-commons.u17	Thank you. Mr Kegeroglu, you have the floor for three minutes again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-27-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, in relation to projects that have been carried out or are being carried out at the BOAK, I have to say that they started in 1994 to build and tender - so we have been talking about the last twenty years - and they are about a hundred miles, according to a document I have received from the Ministry of Infrastructure. The 61.5 km is a highway with all the specifications and 48.5 have been built lately with a hard section. In maturity it is about thirty-two kilometers, in which it is also the ones we discussed the last time, cancelled by the ministry for auction work. With low maturity is about ninety-two kilometers. No studies are sixty-five kilometers. These are the elements of the Ministry. We don't controversy. We agree that the work is very far behind, and that is why we are giving publicity, but above all through parliamentary control, we call for the action of the Ministry to be more effective. What the Prime Minister said, that in 2017 or at the latest in 2018 BOAK will be auctioned, I tell you that he said it at the end of his speech or is one of his well-known promises. The study you intend to assign will be a study to identify specifications, methods, ways, etc. The adaptations to the economic studies of the already mature sections and the technical studies of the parts that are to be lower maturity will follow, which means that it will be switched for some more years, through the study you say you will do, an important part of the work, which could be auctioned directly by this ESRB. What am I saying? I would ask, along with the study, which can be carried out, for all the mature sections to be auctioned - they do not conflict, and in addition the study will indicate some additional things - and, of course, the study of the integration of the whole BOAK. It is unacceptable that those who recommended to the Ministry say that until Kokini Hani, to Hersonissos, it is the traffic burden. We all know that it is even until Agios Nikolaos - and it is a huge burden because of the tourism in the area of Agios Nikolaos in Lassithi - but also after Agios Nikolaos, we have a very difficult part to go to Sitia, where some projects had been stopped, because the contractor was declared to be inferior - and in accordance with the procedure envisaged - and they are now being reactivated. But they can't stay out of study. In addition, this study will not be a direct construction. It will be, as I have said, a strategic study of advice, and will follow after it and economic studies, tender issues and other things. In parallel with the study to be extended throughout the BOC, you should also re-evaluate Panormo - Exante, for which you have decided to cancel the tender and which will be delayed at least a year and a half, but whatever other mature part there is should be auctioned in order to absorb money. Unless the money that was foreseen for this road, they leave to go somewhere else to other uses. It'll be useful again, but they'll get off this particular road. So that's what we're asking you to do. And, of course, as far as maintenance is concerned, which, according to the decision of the Council of State, belongs to the OAS, the treatment is not what Mr Spirtz says. Mr. Spirtzis says: "Okay? And do I have to fund? I will now take the special service on the north road from the OAS to bring it back to the Ministry." As long as we finance and allow the OAS to work with its staff - it is not twelve, it is only those who work on the road section, the engineers are many more and now that Apostelemis and other projects are finished, they have the opportunity to work for the BOAK - so that, in fact, it can bring about what the services cannot bring, which they have not brought forty years, as you have rightly said. Because the OAS was created in 2013, with responsibility through the special service of the northern road axis. We won't ask for the change from the OAS for the last two or three years. The OAS, in fact, was created three to four years ago, but the central agency was ahead of us. So now, what does Mr. Spirtz say? He says: "Oak failed, I will take the service and bring it back to the Ministry." Of course not. That's what centrals want for their own reasons. But the Minister must not want that. On the contrary, a provision has been prepared that saw the light of publicity - I don't know if it came out in the consultation - which says that "I will re-create a service here in Athens to build the BOAK, because the OAS did not make it". A lot of people who listen to us and say B.O.K. and OK, they don't understand what they are. The decentralization took place. But when you don't give the money to the Crete Development Agency to do the maintenance, of course he won't be able to do it. That's what we're asking. To provide funding - there is a responsibility - so that the completion of this project can proceed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-27-S1-commons.u19	Mr. Mavraani, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-27-S1-commons.u20	First of all, we fully agree that the northern road should be a priority. Because you said that it might not be the greatest burden in this part where priority is being given, I have here data from the Crete Development Agency for July 2014 - it was not us - which, indeed, says this exactly, there are deaths, there are many physical damages, there is the transport burden. If you want me to submit it for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-27-S1-commons.u21	No, it is. But that's not all.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-27-S1-commons.u22	I also present for the Minutes Decision 4/2016 of the Council of State. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister, Nikolaos Mavraganis, submits for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Let's make something clear. We did not say that the study of strategic planning - which, in fact, was what you said - actually highlights traffic loads and needs in order to then be able to carry out a more specific study, that is what we are talking about today. We're talking about a study of the OAS, which goes to assign a "suit" study for one kilometer. And because this is difficult, in fact, to do this in the form of the PPP for over 500 million and does not have the competence of Law 3389/2005 the OAS, which is why the Ministry intervenes, to help towards the immediate implementation of the technical specifications, to go to a'suit' study, a package together. For a hundred miles, in fact, you are right that the importance and emotional if you want, but also the importance of humanism that we must give to the whole OAS, is a priority to be given to all parts of it. And even if emotionally each of us wanted to start from somewhere else, it is true that when you come "on the type of suns" and you have to do a prioritization because you don't have money for everything, you put on the first ones that have the greatest need for resolution and the greatest burden. And that's where you're bound, in fact, to the actual statistics that Ok himself has provided. I think that with this mixed system, namely the OPC, which has the responsibility, as the Council of State has said and with the help of the Ministry of Infrastructure, which has technical training, competence and experience to assist in this direction with a large task of a hundred kilometres, which, in fact, must go as quickly as possible, we can move in this direction and prioritise this part of the road, which is of the greatest need at this time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-27-S1-commons.u23	Thank you. I would like to inform you at this point that the Secretary-General of the Government, Mr Kaloger, informs Parliament that there will be no seventeen questions, for different reasons. The first under number 632/21-3-2017, a topical question by MP Kozanis of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Themistollis (Themi) Mumulides to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The increase in VAT to concerts at 24% is disastrous for Greek music and artists and Greek artists", will not be discussed after consultation of the Deputy Minister with the MP. Nor will the following three questions be discussed, due to the absence of the relevant Foreign Ministers: The second, with number 624/20-3-2017, is a top-stage question by MP Kilkis of the New Democracy, George Georgios Georgios Georgantas to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the delay of the Ministry in the request of the Municipality of Kilkis for the maintenance and upgrading of the National Stage of Kilkis. Also, the tenth question under number 577/9-3-2017 of the Independent MEP II of Athens, Eftathios Panagoulis, on the provocative use of chemicals in protesters despite the recent explicit ban on the government and the commitment of the Minister, will not be discussed due to the absence of Mr Toska abroad. For the same reason, the seventeenth and seventeenth, under number 582/13-2017, a topical question for the second cycle of MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos will not be discussed, regarding the existence of just four speed radars on the national network of the country. Also, the following questions will not be discussed as a result of an impediment to the relevant ministers and will be redefined for discussion: The first question under number 631/21-3-2017 of the first cycle of the MP Heraklion of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nikolaos Igoumenidis to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the replacement of the existing damaged water network of the city of Heraklion, will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development Mr. Haritsis, due to unsettled commitments. The third, with number 641/21-3-2017, a top-stage question for the first cycle of the Athens MP of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Christos Katsotis, on the sale of the "National Insurance", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance Mr. Tsakalotou, due to a workload. For the same reason, the fifteenth question under number 584/13-2017 will not be discussed at the time of the second question by MP Kilkis of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Hadjisavvas to the Minister of Finance, concerning the irrational divestment of the profitable "Egnatia street S.A.". The second question, under number 623/20-3-2017, of a second question by MP Evros of the New Democracy, Anastasios Purchas, to the Minister of Health, concerning the tragic deficiencies at the Dumos Hospital, leading to a contraction, depreciation and degradation, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Polakis, due to a workload. The third, with number 642/21-3-2017, a topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Health, on the problems of the Psychiatric Clinic of the General Hospital of Chania "Agios GEORGIOS", will also not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Polakis. The fourth question under number 572-7-3-2017, the second question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the issue of presidential decrees for the recognition of professional rights of TEI graduates, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr.Gavroglou, due to a workload. For the same reason, the ninth will not be discussed under number 602/14-3-2017, a topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis, Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the permissions of substitute teachers. The seventh question, number 596/13-3-2017, on the subject of "the World Bank deplores" the Aegean in Turkey, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the State Secretary for Foreign Affairs, Mr. Amanatidis, due to unsuccessful commitments. Eleventh question under number 479/14-2-2017 on the charging of marine ecosystems in the Mediterranean with radioactive waste will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Famelou. The twelfth with number 568/6-3-2017 is a topical question for the second-cycle Parliamentary 2 Athens of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Helen Zaroulias to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject "The Municipality of Kavala legalizes the pseudo-state in tourist exhibition in Constantinople", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Interior Mr. Skourletis. Also, the tenth third with number 569/7-3-2017 topical question by MP Argolida of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMMAR Mr.Ioannis Maniotis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the activation of the decision on the pilot study of the Social Control Zone (Z.E.) Argos, it will not be discussed by the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Stathakis, because of a workload. For the same reason, the sixteenth question under number 576/7-3-2017 will not be discussed for the second time by MP II Thessaloniki of the Independent Greeks Mr. George Lazarides to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on supporting the employment and production of Greek industries. The fourteenth under number 571/7-3-2017 topical question by the Independent MEP, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of Economy and Development, on "the case of beer and whether there are a jury in the Competition Committee", will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Minister of Economy and Development, Mr Papadimitriou, due to unsuccessful obligations.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-27-S1-commons.u24	Mr President, I ask for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-27-S1-commons.u25	You have the floor, Mr Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-27-S1-commons.u26	For anyone who has been following the questions to which the ministers will not be present to answer, but above all the reason they are invoking, namely the workload, it is obviously something that is inconsistent with the need to strengthen Parliament's authority, which can be achieved if the government first respects Parliament and Parliament's procedures and, of course, then all of us. I do not know whether they have a request for the Prime Minister to be granted a workload allowance, and that is why they claim the 'workload' and 'workload' every time! Look, there is parliamentary control within the work. In particular, however, for the question I have tabled and for which I have spoken now, concerning the Minister of State, Mr Gavroglou, and the actions he has to take in order to complete the procedures for guaranteeing the professional rights of TEIs, and of course for the compliance of the Administration with decisions of the Council of State, I should like to say that this is the third time he has not come to reply. There are three there at the Ministry of Education, let someone else come. Previously I accepted and answered and discussed the question about BOAK with Mr Mavragani, who is not responsible for this matter. But we talked about it. Okay, if it was Mr. Spirtz, maybe I could ask him a little more. But, thirdly, that my question should not be discussed and that there should be three there in the Ministry of Education and that they should not bother showing up, I think, that it is too far gone and I strongly protest this to the Bureau of Parliament, in the general sense and, of course, to the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-27-S1-commons.u27	We move to the eighth Question No 591/13-3-2017 on the second time question of the New Democracy MP Christou Boukorou to the Minister of Health concerning the ‘health leave of the Alonissos’. The current question will be answered by the Minister for Health, Mr. Andreas Xanthos. Mr. Bukouros has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-27-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. I would, however, like to add, before I go through the development of the question, and my voice in the protest by my colleague Mr Kegeroglou, because by listening to what questions the Greek citizens will not discuss and by constantly listening to impediments, they will rightly believe that they are blocked by the entire government. But, Mr President, invoking the workload in order not to answer topical questions is not right. It is one of the main tasks of the ministers to respond to parliamentary scrutiny. Otherwise the institutions of our Parliament do not work. They show a contempt for the ministers of the current government in parliamentary control. Twenty-time questions were to be made today and finally only three are discussed. This is a disgraceful picture of Parliament. In other words, Parliament is not fully in operation without parliamentary scrutiny. I'm going to go through the development of my question. Minister, the people of the Alonissos are experiencing the abandonment. The degradation of the regional doctorate of a remote island, such as Alonissos, which is five hours away by boat from the port of Volos, you realise that it creates justified anger and indignation to the citizens of the Alonissos. Because the ministers have the bad habit of looking back, I will tell you about the gaps that have been created over your own days. Of course you know that a single rural doctor is called upon to bear the burden of the whole island. On the days of bad weather, when the island was completely excluded, she was alone trying to treat injured and sick, literally alone! A while ago she was licensed because of overcompensation. Then the Ministry of Health agreed to send a deputy doctor every week, when he could find him, from various regional health centers in Thessaly. However, the Alonissos Regional Medical School has not only been vacant in the second doctor, who has been in existence since the eleventh month of 2016, but does not have a nurse whose position since the twelfth month of 2016 is also vacant, and a midwife who since the beginning of 2015 has left due to a switchover. I will not tell you about the remaining gaps that have been in previous years, in fact, like the one of the pediatricians, the dentist, the ambulance driver. A unique guide ambulance is called on to be on guard 24 hours a day, summer, on an island that is remote and has important tourist traffic, Minister. Today, the Alonissos doctor is served by one agricultural doctor, one ambulance driver and one X-ray operator whose contract expires next June. These are the reasons I've submitted to you for the Alonissos Regional Medical School three questions since the first month of 2017, i.e. the last quarter. The situation is dramatic. There are no consumables missing, no gauzes, no syringes. They become fundraisers and dances. I'll tell you in my dentistry, Minister. So why does the state leave the island of Alonissos sanitarily?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-27-S1-commons.u29	Thank you. The Minister for Health, Mr. Andreas Blondos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-27-S1-commons.u30	My dear colleague, I want to be absolutely clear and honest. Obviously the Alonissos, as well as many islands, inappropriate and barren areas of the country, has vacant areas, especially in the service of health services, as well as in general the other services of the social state and public administration. There is no sanitary abandonment, my dear colleague. There is a real difficulty in this country to provide permanent staff with a part of the island of Greece. You know very well that we have recently announced a permanent curator's post twice, unfortunately without any response. And recently, in the notice with invitation to rural doctors, while he had initially been declared and had chosen a rural doctor second to serve on the island, I was informed today that he did not accept his appointment. There is, therefore, a serious problem of incentives for attraction, especially for medical staff in these areas. I fully agree with the current staffing of this unit, which obviously serves the needs of a local population that multiplys the summer season due to tourism, and that these needs are increased. But you also know that it has now been permanentised, apart from the rural doctor - which has actually lifted a very great burden of care for the island's population, especially in the period of bad weather - the presence of qualified general doctors rotating from the centres of health in Thessaly, starting from the period of the transport isolation that existed because of bad weather. This has, in my view, strengthened both quantitative and qualitative care. There's the X-ray operator. You mentioned in the question that the machine was broken. As far as I've been informed by the Fifth Ministry of Foreign Affairs, this has been restored and its operation is normal. What we will continue to do is to re-approach the positions in which there is no response so far. You know we've given extra incentives and economics. In the three hundred regional hospitals in the country, an additional EUR 400 as an economic incentive for attraction was provided by Law No.4368. This includes the multi-powered Regional Medical Center of the Alonissos. So far, this has not yielded to this area for upgraded personnel, which has happened elsewhere in the country, and the truth is that too many regional medical establishments in islands that have been vacant, after this arrangement, have been able to cover them. I believe that this will also happen in the next period. The agency has assured me that it will be reopened immediately. Once the current notice of agricultural doctors expires, there is a prediction that unattended posts should be re-opened. We will also insist on the proclamation of a permanent doctor, hoping that a piece of young doctors who end this period of specialty will not choose work abroad. Because there is this very serious problem right now, namely the leaking of medical resources, medical immigration, the well-known Brain Drain to the countries of Europe. We believe that there is a systematic effort now being made to proclaim permanent positions in the health system, this slowly reverses it, to increase the possibility that young doctors in our country will seek work - obviously not with Europe's wages - and in the Greek area, and that is how the gaps in these areas will be covered as much as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-27-S1-commons.u31	Mr. Buquoir, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-27-S1-commons.u32	Mr Minister, both I and the people of the Alonissos, whose thoughts I have become a societal one, would expect a more satisfactory answer. And if there are so many excuses for medical staff, I ask you: why didn't you place the midwife missing since 2015 from the regional medical office? Why don't you put a nurse on? Because even if there are consumables, the regional office has no nurses to sterilize them in order to properly use them. Why don't you place an ambulance driver? Why don't you put a maker in order to be able to operate this regional office in an elemental manner? I would also expect you, Minister, to present me with a plan, after three questions I have tabled to you, more specific, and for the medical staff at least for the gaps that have been created in your own days. However, we did not hear it from your protagonists. Minister, in the past few days the English community of the Alonissos gathered 2,500 euros and delivered them to the regional office in order to buy gauze, syringes and other consumables. For the 2nd of April, the inhabitants of the island organize dances in order to raise money to buy consumables for the Alonissos Regional Hospital. Is this a satisfactory picture, Minister? Let's say there's dystocia in filling the position of doctors. Everything else? The paramedical staff, the consumables? That is why in my initial position, although I never want to be excessive, I have spoken and stressed that the people of the Allies feel the absolute abandonment. But you will allow me, Minister, to inform you of another very important matter that has arisen at the hospital of Volos and for which your assistant replied on the eve of the National Anniversary. You know, Minister, that the Hospital of Volos no longer accepts new cases of cancer patients, why has your deputy been exceeded by an announcement to attack the hospital doctors, against the doctors of the Volos Hospital and against me personally? Cancer patients who hope to survive are now sent to the Hospitals of Larissa, Thessaloniki and Athens. The first five incidents have already been expelled. We are also making savings in the treatment of cancer patients and Mr. Paulakis presented a comparison table with the meetings of the Hospital of Larissa and the sessions of the Hospital of Volos, as if all cases of cancer patients were the same and demand the same treatment. And he even made the call to get the information from the first quarter of 2017, which has not yet been completed, which means that these were orders, were not medicines that were consumed. Why did it not take the last quarter of 2016, where we are talking about chemo treatments that have been executed to really see the comparison of the two hospitals and looking for riot victims among doctors who fight under adverse conditions on such a serious issue? What message do we send to the cancer patients in Magnesia? Instead of sending a message of hope, a message of dignity, we tell them 'in the state you are, will you travel hundreds of miles to make chemos'? Minister, because you are a political wise and mild, I would ask you today's opportunity to bend...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-27-S1-commons.u33	Please, Mr. Buquarre, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-27-S1-commons.u34	I shall conclude, Mr President. In all previous colleagues, you have been tolerant.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-27-S1-commons.u35	And to you. I've given you two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-27-S1-commons.u36	I'll be done in a minute. I would ask you, Minister, not to take the account of human dignity and human life. Do not seek exquisite victims, among your colleagues, where you come from. He has no interest in a tumor doctor who set it up on his own - he worked without an assistant, with a nurse for years all - to waste. He can prefer the appropriate treatments for his patients and produce results. These issues are not to send a message to the cancer patients of Magnesia that they are the scapegoats of the system. I would ask you to take a closer look at this issue for the second time. There has been a huge social problem in Magnesia. Think of the Alonissos you are discussing a cancer patient that cannot be accepted at Volos Hospital and need to go to Larissa or Thessaloniki. It must be traveling for days, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-27-S1-commons.u37	Mr. Buquoor, don't complain, I've given you two more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-27-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-27-S1-commons.u39	You're welcome. Minister Xanthos has the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-27-S1-commons.u40	On the last point which has been raised now and which was obviously off the agenda, I am not prepared to respond in detail. I have requested information from the Commander of the Health Region and from the Head of the Hospital. I know that today was a scheduled meeting with all the managers of the hospitals of Thessaly on the issue of the management of the tumor incidents and the better distribution of pharmaceutical expenditure to hospitals. Look, Mr Boukoro, in order not to say easy words, the truth is that last year, with the increase we caused in the 2016 budget and especially in the portion of the pharmaceutical expenditure, the year ended at a level of about EUR 660 million with a clawback limit that was initially 490 million and then we went to - after negotiations with the institutions - at 510 million. We have managed to fully meet the needs of expenditure and the insured, but also of uninsured citizens - this is a very important change - and particularly in the part of the oncological treatment that you know very well that is very precise. So last year, the hospitals had no shortages, especially in oncological drugs, and this year, with the same level of expenditure, there is no reason to have problems, in my view, especially in the first quarter of the year, nor is there an institutionalised twelfth. Obviously, the administration of each hospital must supervise the proper implementation of the budget and must make the necessary recommendations...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-27-S1-commons.u41	Minister, why did he have to raise the matter to speak of a plaque? If the plaque had escaped, you should have said it earlier, not wait...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-27-S1-commons.u42	Listen, I'm telling you this...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-27-S1-commons.u43	Are you looking for exile victims?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-27-S1-commons.u44	Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-27-S1-commons.u45	Leave now, there are no rivalries. Cancer patients and those who are actually in this difficult position, in Volos and elsewhere in our country, are treated with credibility and universality and in an equal manner throughout the whole health system and - I stress - by overcoming the separation between insured and uninsured. This has been the case for over a year and this is a very big change and there is no longer the insecurity of people who are facing this very serious test of their health that they can stay without care because they are not insured. That is absolutely guaranteed. It is now the responsibility of the health district and hospital administrations, given the budget, which has been shared today in all hospitals in the country, to make the best possible management. I know Volos Hospital had a chemotherapy unit, not exactly on-line clinically organised. Of course, I don't know what the real functional potential of this unit is. Apparently, there are oncology clinics in Larissa, which are much more organised and have greater potential to serve and treat similar incidents. The assurance I have is that there will be an effort to resolve the issue without a problem and, above all, to ensure access for all citizens from any region of Thessaly to the necessary treatment. That is what you know very well that it is not possible to always happen in the homes of people, people. That would be desirable.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-27-S1-commons.u46	So far it has been happening.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-27-S1-commons.u47	Okay. I have asked for information and, if necessary, there will be corrective action. Now on the main issue of the question. I would also like to say that it is very easy to show gaps and weaknesses and shortcomings in staffing, particularly in island, barren and inaccessible areas. Unfortunately, as I said before, in the arid regions we have barren notices, we have no interest and we need to have a serious debate as a political system, as a society for how to shield these regions with much stronger and more effective incentives. The issue of islandity is a crucial issue, it is a matter of social and national priority. We have so far not found an effective way to cover the availability of these vacancies in particular. You also know very well that for the first time, permanent posts in the public health system have been declared for the last five years. The truth is that public hospitals and less primary care structures have been given priority. However, there has also been support for subsidiary doctors and other staff, mainly subsidiary staff. This is the case with the operator of the radiological, who serves in the specific regional office whose term of office, if I have been correctly informed, expires on 30-9-2017. We've given an extension. We will see early summer when we will be able to make a comprehensive assessment of needs and if necessary, obviously we will not allow there to be a leak, mass leak, human resources in the system...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-27-S1-commons.u48	Nurse, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-27-S1-commons.u49	And a nurse. The information I've got from the service is that I'm serving an I.T. nurse in the district hospital. That's the information the agency gives me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-27-S1-commons.u50	No, you've got the wrong information.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-27-S1-commons.u51	I'll check it out and investigate it. In other words, the picture is that it serves a rural doctor, a rotating general doctor, an ICP nurse and an ICP operator - developer. That's the picture I've got from the service.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-27-S1-commons.u52	Ambulance driver and X-ray machine operator.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-27-S1-commons.u53	Good. In any case, I would like to say: You know that a two A few days ago, a hundred fifty places were called for emergency, mainly from hospitals. There we have determined that a number of three hundred, four hundred will be dedicated exclusively to primary care structures, namely rural-type health centres and the structures of the EED in urban areas. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] In this way, we will always, of course, try to ensure that there is no response in these areas, that we cover as much of these gaps as possible. Also, you should know that the budget for financing primary health care structures increased and in 2016 and 2017 remains the same: EUR 38 million more in all health centres in the country. In this way, I believe that there are no shortages and even cheap health material. You know very well that in these cases the problem is usually not the cash possibility and liquidity that the OPOs have to buy this material. There are multiple and accumulated problems in the procurement system. There are difficulties due to the Price Observatory, because there are no suppliers to offer, especially in areas where transport costs are present, etc. There are real difficulties and not obviously a lack of money, which are sought with fundraisers. Local communities are obviously sensitive and well-intentioned to have the best possible staffing and adequate health structures in their regions, but I think what we are doing today is an attempt to raise a public health system, which had suffered multiple burdens over the past few years with the cost-cutting measures and human resources. What I think people in the region can expect is that through this overall upgrade, which includes upgrading the aerospace in the Aegean Sea - we have created two additional bases: we have created one in Syros and are preparing another in Mytilini, in order to strengthen the more rapid passage of emergency and emergency - there is also an effort from the health regions to strengthen their intervention and cooperation with the Armed Forces. [[At this point the closing bell of the Secretary-General's speaking time is being ringed.]] Recently we had a meeting at the Ministry of National Defence and we're on a good path. This is already being implemented with armed doctors, in order to have an incentive to serve - and, of course, to be paid - in gaps in the health system. However, we also want to use the skilled medical potential of the Armed Forces in the units they serve to serve and assist the adjacent structures of the ERC. So there is a systematic effort. I think that's where we have to stick. Obviously, and I do not claim that we can by magic change such a difficult reality, which exists in the health sector, in these places.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-27-S1-commons.u54	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to the House in accordance with Article 86 of the Constitution and Article 3126/2003 "Prime responsibility of Ministers", as in force in the 27-3-2017 criminal proceedings concerning: a) the Minister of Finance Mr Euklidis Tsakalotos and b) the former Ministers of Spyridon - Adoni Georgiadis, Konstantinos Hatzidakis, Panagiotis Mitaraki, Andreas Lykourenzos and Mavroudi Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-27-S1-commons.u55	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-27-S1-commons.u56	Please don't predict, Mr. Buquoore, tritology. I'm sorry. You can discuss them with the Minister, but it is not for the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-27-S1-commons.u57	Yes, but I saw a 20-minute tolerance in the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-27-S1-commons.u58	Because the Minister will then want to return.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-27-S1-commons.u59	I will not answer the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-27-S1-commons.u60	What did you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-27-S1-commons.u61	I said I saw a twenty-minute tolerance in the Minister's reply, while in my position you were pressurized and I would like to say...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-27-S1-commons.u62	No, you're not right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-27-S1-commons.u63	Just give me a minute to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-27-S1-commons.u64	The Minister was on vacation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-27-S1-commons.u65	I understand your tolerance as solidarity between health ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-27-S1-commons.u66	No, no, you're wrong. I barely did.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-27-S1-commons.u67	Mr President, I would like to tell you, when the questions in this House are so few, that you show a tolerance of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-27-S1-commons.u68	I gave you almost twice a year, and the Minister took a little longer. What can we do? He wanted to talk a little more. What can I tell him?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-27-S1-commons.u69	All right, I'm saying it in general. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-27-S1-commons.u70	But there was no intention. You understand that. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-27-S1-commons.u71	With the consent of the House at 19.05 hours the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday, March 28, 2017 at 10 a.m., on the subject of Parliament's work: parliamentary scrutiny, according to the special agenda distributed.
