ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the SPECIFIC FACILITY ORGANIZATION Parliament's decisions: debate and vote, in accordance with Rule 76 of the Constitution and Rule 118 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, on the proposal by the President of Parliament: 'To amend the Rules of Procedure of Parliament - Part II' (FEC 51 A'/10.4.1997), as applicable'. The proposal of the President of Parliament was accepted by the Members of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure by a majority of 4/5 and therefore, in accordance with Rule 108(6) and (1), the vote may be taken without debate. However, we can have a conversation, for whoever he would want, for two minutes. Previously, I would like to make two announcements in this House: The President of the Democratic Group of the PASOK Group - DIMAR and seven Members of its Party, as well as the President of the Parliamentary Group Potami and three Members of his party tabled on 11-12-2017 a proposal for a law: 'Priority protection and support measures for the islands'. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. We also have a letter from Mr Nicolopoulou: 'Mr., with this letter I would like to ask you to authorize Parliament's work from today, December 11th to Wednesday 13th, because I am outside Greece on a trip to Xian China, taking part in the 'First Greek Investment Forum' conference. Furthermore, the following letter has been sent by Mr Konstantinos Karamanlis, MP of Serres of the New Democracy: “Please approve me absent from Sunday 10 to Thursday 14 December 2017, in order to go abroad.” Furthermore, Mrs Vagioni Evangelia has sent the following letter: "Please, as you approve a few days' leave from Thursday 14 December 2017 to Monday 18 December 2017, as I will be absent for personal reasons abroad." Finally, from Mrs Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou we received the following letter: ‘I will inform you that I will be absent abroad (Germany) during the period from 11 to 14 December 2017 and therefore abstain from the work of Parliament for that period.’ Does the House approve the above-mentioned permits?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u2	The House therefore approved the requested authorisations. I would ask Mrs Kozobol to speak on the subject of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. It is a question of amending the special Rules of Procedure of the House and, in particular, Article 2, which refers to the State Budget Office in the House. Article 2 of the Special Rules of Procedure of the Parliament regulates the powers of the State Budget Office in Parliament, the manner in which the head of the office, his formal qualifications, the term of office and so on. There is a five-year term of office for the head and the possibility of renewing his term of office once again. However, it is not foreseen to extend its term of office for a period of less than five years. This is an empty law, and this gap comes to cover today, on the occasion of this particular amendment, which has now come to the Bureau of the Parliament's Budget Office. President Liargova's term of office expired on 30-11-2017, cooperation will not continue and there is a need for a small extension until the rules laid down in Article 2 of the Special Regulation on filling the post are laid down. Thus, a subparagraph of Article 2 of the Special Regulation provides for the possibility of extending the contract for less than the time limit provided for in that provision.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much. I would like to inform the House - because we have also told the Committee on the Rules of Procedure - that the term of office of the other members of the Bureau is until March, as far as I know. They will also complete their term of office. In the intervening period, any change will take place, in consultation with both parties responsible, so that we can see from there and then the whole of the Office how it is going to proceed. Please, Mr Tragakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u5	Mr President, on 30 November the Coordinator of the Office for the Monitoring of the Budget of the State of Liargova and the four special associates ended, and this is why it was decided at the Conference on the Committee on the Rules of Procedure that an extension should be given until the new coordinator has been chosen, whether he or anyone else who is able to submit, on the basis of Rule 2 of the Rules of Procedure, if he, of course, has the qualifications required for this post. Of course, the Scientific Committee has until March, and I would like to stress here that the Scientific Committee is intergroup, as you know, Mr President. But you will allow me to make a small political comment, it is not about you, it is about the government. It is well known that all the committee's reports were unanimous and by 2015 there was a spiral - I could say - of the reports submitted by the committee. Since 2015, the decisions of the committee and the reports have not been excellent to the Government and there have been various comments and, indeed, comments that have been made at the expense of Mr Liargova and at the expense of the members of the Scientific Committee. I would like to put it, Mr President, that we have two councils dealing with this. It is the Committee, which is in Parliament's Budget Office and is also the Committee of the Regions, which is the Economic Policy Council, which is the Ministry of Finance. In both cases, no primary economic policy decisions are produced. On the contrary, IOBE, like the JEP, deals with primary economic results, which are useful to each government. That is why we have already been concerned about the fact that we have two committees. For example, Belgium, Germany has a committee. We have two committees. We had a problem if it had to be a committee. Of course, that is what we had said to the institutions at the time, and the institutions had agreed that these two committees would exist. I would therefore like to point out that, in a long time, if necessary, these two committees should become one. I would also like to say that IOBE and KEEPE reports also come to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and also to be discussed, because these reports are useful - they are submitted to you, Mr President - and they will be able to give us useful economic conclusions. Of course, we have all voted positively in committee, except in one case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much, Mr President. I just wanted to point out, without controversy, that, of course, every issue within the House can, there are opinions and considerations on economic issues, etc. Moreover, I have also said publicly in the Conference of Presidents - but also yesterday, I was publicly given the opportunity to say - that in the first five years this new institution has gained its ownership in the debate on Parliament and in public, and this is very important, so the closure of this cycle and the performance on the next ladies and gentlemen, who will serve it from better positions than before. In other words, there is no negative valuation as a whole of the work done. I think we all agree with that assessment. Mr. Papatheodorou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. I would agree with the proposal for an extension, because it takes time to select the new Coordinator of the Parliament's Budget Office. I would like to say that in these five years the previous Office, head of which was Mr Liargova, has been in charge, but also in exceptional presences, because we must not forget that it was not only Mr Liargova, but also excellent scientists who framed this office, who won one thing, which is valuable in our crisis conditions. It gained credibility in the approach of economic issues, credibility in the independence it was able to have in relation to the daily friction of political problems in the House, credibility and validity in terms of the scientific expression of the opinion. Describing their presence and their offer, I would like to say that the only thing we are looking forward to is the choice, which will be made and which you have chosen to do through this procedure, to be commensurate with the principle, because the principle was very right. I would also stress that the principle was correct, because since the beginning of the office's operation there has been a cross-party consensus, which no one has called into question throughout the operation of the office, despite the fact that there have been opposing opinions, as can always be opposed opinions and contrasting analyses. But no one was able to question the credibility and independence of this office. In this sense, I think I am expressing many colleagues from Parliament saying they have done an excellent job. And I hope that the choices will be such that they maintain this credibility for the future, because we always need a substantial representation of the financial items in the House. In this sense - we have stressed it from the outset - we are in agreement with your proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr. Papatheodorou. Mr. Poppa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u9	Mr President, I asked for the floor to be heard in this House that we, during the sitting in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, voted 'at present'. And this 'present' has nothing to do with the activity of Parliament's Budget Office and Mr Liargova personally. In any case, this principle has moved independently in the last five years and, if you want, politically from our perspective, the Greek nationalists, it has done a good job, because it has denounced the memorandum both in the period of the Samara-Venizelos coexistence and in the current period of SYRIZA-ANEL coexistence. This debate, Mr President, is taking place at a time of particular concern. In a few minutes the weekly meeting will begin to discuss the new budget, a budget that will bring further poverty. It is nothing but an additional Memorandum of Understanding for the 'first time on the Left'. For our part, anything that will bring parliamentary blocks, blocks or anything else to this government, we are adopting it, and in that sense I justify'residents', especially after the Erdogan visit to Greece and the evolution. taking our national topics, both in Skopje and in the Aegean, because immediately after his visit Erdogan bound almost half of the Aegean for military exercises. It has been proved definitively and irrevocably in the eyes of the Greek people that this government is dangerous, it is nationally harmful and the sooner it is "the last time left", the more useful it will be for the place.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u10	Good. I have not interrupted you for the economy of the debate. But you should be aware that at meetings which have a special agenda, such as this one, which is on the Rules of Procedure and which is not a representative of the Government, because it is internal and regular for Parliament, you can see that it should not be done under any circumstances because it cannot be answered - do you understand? - unlike anything else. It is obvious that this is what this is all about. I would simply point it out for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u11	They'll have time for the ministers to talk a whole week. As Mr Tragakis made a political comment, so I extended myself to a political comment. It doesn't have any other meaning. I know about the meeting.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u12	All right, all right. Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u13	Thank you very much, Mr President. As we have said in committee, we will support the extension. By the way, and for one minute, in the short time we have, I would like to say that we economists always want to have criticism of specialists and better than us economists on the elements we give. Mr Liargova's contribution was important, although we have had too many times in - if you would like - to translate or explain the financial data and the implementation of the budget. I hope that the new administration and the new coordinator will do their job as well, that they will again be independent, that they are strict with the economic administration and with all the ministries, because that is the only way we can all be better. I think it's a wish for all of us to be controlled, to be better off. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u14	Thank you very much. Mr. Saridis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. The proposal of the Union of Centres was formulated by its representative, Mr Georgiadis, in committee. The Centro Association shall be in accordance with the proposal for an extension. A key criterion for the Central Association to agree was the real credibility of the office, as well as the excellent work it has done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u16	Thank you. Before giving the floor to Mr Lykoudi, I would like to make a statement to this House. The Standing Committees on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice and Trade deposit their report to the draft law of the Ministry of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information: "Authorisation of Space Activities - Registration in the National Register of Space Objects - Establishment of a Greek Space Organisation and other provisions". Mr. Lykoudi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u17	Mr President, we are voting in favour of your proposal to extend the stay of Mr Liargova and of the executive, as long as it is necessary to identify the new Bureau for the Budget of Parliament. I think it is undeniable that the dear friends who have been working all these years with this responsibility have shown seriousness and credibility and we assume and hope that the same logic and mood for good work will also have the next period of the new executives who will be identified for these responsibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned at the outset, the article and the whole of the motion of the President of Parliament: 'To amend the Rules of Procedure of the House - Part II' (Government G 51 I/10.4.1997), as applicable'. Does this House accept the proposal in principle?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u19	Sustained.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u20	Sustained.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u21	Sustained.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u22	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u23	Sustained.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u24	Sustained.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u25	Sustained.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u26	Sustained.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u27	The proposal by the President of Parliament was therefore accepted by a majority in principle. Does the House agree that the only article in the proposal is accepted as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u28	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u29	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u30	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u31	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u32	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u33	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u34	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u35	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u36	Only the article was accepted as majority. Consequently, the proposal by the President of Parliament: "To amend provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament - Part II (Government Gazette 51 A/10.4.1997), as applicable, was accepted in principle and under Rule alone. Will this House also accept the proposal as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u37	Sustained.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u38	Sustained.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u39	Sustained.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u40	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u41	Sustained.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u42	Sustained.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u43	Sustained.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u44	Sustained.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u45	Consequently, the proposal by the President of Parliament: 'To amend provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament - Part II' (Government Gazette 51 A/10.4.1997), as applicable', was accepted, in a single debate, in principle, of the article and the whole majority, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to give its approval to the Bureau for the ratification of the Minutes in respect of the vote on this motion by the President of this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u47	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point we will suspend the sitting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Resolution of the State Budget for the financial year 2018’. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the state budget will be held in accordance with Rule 123 of the Rules of Procedure within five consecutive sittings. In this regard, three meetings will now be held and two sittings will then be held next Monday and Tuesday in the sense that there will be no plenary session. In other words, there will be no further sitting of the House on Thursday and Friday. We'll go, then, Monday and Tuesday, and we'll close. So it's gonna be five continuous meetings. We have also discussed this in the Conference of Presidents and had the opinion of the Scientific Committee. There's no problem, typically or else, to be sure. The speakers will be registered with the electronic system by the end of the speech of the general rapporteurs and a single list of speakers will be drawn up. The sequence of speakers shall be defined in accordance with the circles of speakers. I propose that, following the speeches by the general and special rapporteurs, there should be a circle of speakers with a speaker from each party. In other words, we will, as a priority, have nine alternate MPs, one of each party - from the eight - parties and an independent MP. Independent MPs are nine. There's no Independent Party. We put them in the ad hoc process. In this respect, it will be one in the first cycle. Then, in order to ensure that Parliamentary seats are represented by analogy, I propose that a single list of speakers should be drawn up, including all Members registered with the electronic system. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats supports the motion for a resolution tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and the The circles of speakers will be as follows. A circle of speakers will be composed of about fourteen Members, who will alternate. Approximately, you know where it goes, that some smaller parties or others stop participating in this circle and continue with fewer ones. I say so that there is no misinterpretation. Some fifteen such cycles are expected to take place. The attempt will be to get rid of the list of all those who want to speak, as was the case last year. In particular, every cycle will consist of twelve Members of the first five parliamentary groups, six of the SYRIZA, three of the New Democracy, one of the Democratic Alliance, one of the Golden Dawn and one of the JRC and successively every two cycles will be entered by a Member from the Union of Centres and one MEP from the Potami. In each cycle, an Independent MEP will enter the eighth cycle, so the nine that we said will be exhausted. The Group of Independent Greeks will participate in the debate with four speakers, since the rest are members of the government. In fact, these four MPs will be shared for the speeches of the rapporteur-general, the Special Rapporteur, the Parliamentary Representative and the MP, who will speak in the first priority cycle. That's why I didn't mention the Independent Greeks in a row. Any changes in the order of registered speakers shall be made in exceptional cases with the approval of the Bureau and with the document of the Secretary-General of the Parliamentary Group, addressed to the Bureau and with the necessary condition of mutual change, until the end of the second sitting. We will make every effort this year, as we have done in recent years, to speak as many colleagues as possible. This will be possible if we are all confined to the time we are entitled to, and if our meetings begin at the very time that has been set on the agenda. That is why I would stress, ladies and gentlemen, that the time should be stricter and that the meetings should be started at the time that has been planned. The morning sessions will start at 10.00 p.m. and will be completed at 22.00 p.m. or 22.30 p.m. without a lunch break. So we're not gonna finish at 12 o'clock or 1.00 o'clock or 2.00 o'clock, like we used to. This is also the case for the services of Parliament, because they sit and then work for a few hours and then for the people who are watching and, of course, for the Members. The sitting of the last day of the debate, Tuesday 19 December, will depend on the remaining speakers and remaining speakers and will be known on Monday 18 December 2017, after seeing the whole economy of the debate, how it will have gone until then. We have said that in the Conference of Presidents. We have worked on this for the economy of the debate. It's not a primary treatment. I propose that the speaking time of the general rapporteurs should be 20 minutes, of the special rapporteurs, of the Prime Minister, thirty-minutes, of the Chairman of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group and of the Chairman of the Staff Committee, of the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups of the Democratic Independent PASOK - DIMAR, of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, of the Communist Party of Greece, of the Independent Greeks, of the Centro and of the Potamos Union be twenty-five minutes, of the competent Minister of Finance, twenty-five minutes, of the responsible Deputy Minister of Finance, 15 minutes, of the responsible Deputy Minister of Finance, of the other Ministries of the Ten minutes, of the Deputy Ministers and of the House, eight minutes, of the Deputy Ministers of the other Ministries of Ministries, in analogous application of Articles 97 and 123 of the Rules of Procedure. Parliamentary representatives shall be entitled to speak for twelve minutes, but if the chairmen of the parliamentary groups are presided over, otherwise they shall be confined to the time of the second reading, i.e. six minutes and three minutes of the third reading, in accordance with Rule 167(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. The speaking time for all speakers on the list will also be six minutes. Finally, I propose that today's sitting be closed at approximately 23.00 p.m. with 23.30 p.m., that is to say that the entire cycle of the general rapporteurs and the special rapporteurs should be closed. Do not present the phenomenon, ladies and gentlemen, special rapporteurs, to speak the next day. Tomorrow morning and tomorrow, two whole days, it will be dedicated to the speeches of Members and, of course, Ministers, State Secretarys, Deputys, etc., just to have a sense of the economy of the debate. Today, then, the general rapporteurs and the special rapporteurs will be speaking. These two circles are closing. Tomorrow we begin with the circle of one of each party, plus an independent MP.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u49	Will the special rapporteurs be able to make progress tonight?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u50	Yeah, we're on time. We've been through this. We started at 6:00 sharp. It's not a matter. We're on time. To keep the time, please, for respect for everyone. The list of Ministers, the State Secretarys, the Deputys will be available to the Party Secretaries. It has already been worked out and you will have it in the evening, perhaps this morning or tomorrow, if there is any change in the morning, so that you know the economy between you and the Members of Parliament about opposition to the ministers. We've taken care of it all so that there's no problem. Let me tell you that the vote we will be voting on December 19th, and I hope - and it is very likely - that it will be the last roll-call vote that has been held in the House for decades. From December 20th, this Chamber will not be used again for as long as necessary, two or three weeks, i.e... The Senate will be used once again, until about 15 January, when the entire electronic voting system, which is very modern at European level, will already be fully installed. But we need to see it first, test it, go well, so that it becomes faster than there in the new year, in 2018. That's what I'm telling you for. If you have no objection, I should like to call on the SYRIZA Secretary-General, Mr Dimitrios Vetta, to the Step. Thank you very much. Please keep the time, so we can get out in time. Mr. Vetta, you have the floor for 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating in plenary today the state budget for 2018. It is a budget that will be implemented in a context with certain constraints, which, as you know, have been valid since 2010, since the country entered the budget adjustment programmes. It is a budget quite difficult, but at the same time optimistic, in that 2018 is the country's last year of fiscal adjustment. New budgetary adjustment measures in 2018 will not be legislated. It is the fourth budget in the order of our own government. Previously in 2015, 2016 and 2017, they were successfully implemented with regard to the budgetary objectives and, of course, this is due to a certain degree to the fact that when we took over the country's governance and after the painful and difficult compromise of 2015, which reminds us that we brought him to the crisis of the Greek people in the elections in September, we were able to change the high primary surpluses that the Government of Samara - Venizelos had accepted. So you all know that the primary surpluses for 2015, 2016 and 2017 and 2018 were higher. It was 3%, 3.5%, 4.5% and 4.2% respectively. The country in 2014 has been unable to implement the programme since the derailment of the budget since summer 2014, which the previous government did for obvious reasons. We can therefore imagine how difficult it was for the country to carry out so high surpluses over the next few years. We have therefore brought in a new financial facility agreement, we have significantly reduced the primary surpluses at its level - remember all of you - minus 0.25%, plus 0.55%, plus 1.75%, 3.55% for 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018 respectively, and 3.55% for the medium term. It is precisely these lower primary surpluses that have enabled us to implement the budgetary targets as a whole, but also to strengthen with our political choice the social budget. We have thus managed to put the country's public finances in a row, to create an important social protection framework, which was not there, but also to restore the credibility of our economy, which was reflected both by the positive movement of macroeconomic rates, and by the positive development of the interest rates that led to the safe exit of the country, recently, on the markets. The budget we are debating starts the 2017 budget, which, as I said before, has found the space in the very difficult budgetary conditions to return to the Greek people EUR 720 million in the form of a social dividend. He also managed to return 315 million to illegal retentions of pensioners' health contributions, but also 360 million to cover the costs of services of general interest, which essentially means freezing the increase in energy costs for Greek citizens, especially those in a difficult financial situation. The return - and we must stress this - of illegal withholding contributions to pensioners is a political decision by the government. We have been accused by the Opposition and, above all, by the New Democracy, that overcrowd was created by over-taxation. It is true that there are tax injustices and there are tax injustices in those social groups which have been imposed at the same time as new insurance, but also with taxation. But I think we all know and will all agree that the major problem is not overtaxation, but many times the undertaxation of social groups, which has often led to deficits and debt production. If we look at this, ladies and gentlemen, in Table 3.2 of the draft budget, we see that revenue from direct taxes is less than EUR 1.2 billion of the medium-term forecast. We will also see that tax refunds exceed 3.5 billion against a provision of 3.2 billion. This overall means that from May to November, as shown in the draft state budget, in 2017 the state did not get or get but returned EUR 3.5 billion to the private sector. They must therefore explain where this overtax occurs. The over-performance, which has also created over-excession, which has been distributed to the world and which will be distributed to the world, has emerged from the non-measurable measures. It is mainly due to the high collection of VAT, which is not only due to the use of plastic money, but also to a new principle - I would say, which is happening in Greek society and the Greek economy, to the greater compliance of the debtors. It is also due to overcompensation to 208 million received up to 30 September. Obviously the amount is higher at the moment through the voluntary disclosure programme. This over-performance, of course, is due to the parametric measures, and I mean, in relation to what is agreed, but also to an extremely important extent, to the increase in employment, i.e. income from the increase in employment. You will all know and you will know or find out in the latest review of the ECA budget that a surplus of EUR 604 million has been found. This amount has been taken into account and the amount corresponding to the temporary package of twenty-five thousand pensions, which have been cleared and paid to pensioners. In our argument we often hear that we have imposed an internal payment stop to exceed EUR 8.5 billion in the year 2016-2017 our budgetary targets and to create a surplus, we respond that the increase in delays does not create an increase in the surplus, which I think you know better than we do. By reverting, ladies and gentlemen, to the development of the social protection network, for which you are all aware of the years of 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014, I must remind you that: When we took over the country's governance, our first piece of legislation, the first law of the SYRIZA government, was the measures for the humanitarian crisis of 100 million euros. Next year, in 2016, we implemented the humanitarian crisis measures and pilots have introduced and implemented the social solidarity allowance of EUR 270 million. Next year, that is, the year we are spending, we have fully implemented the social income of EUR 720 million. Next year, in 2018, as is pictured in the budget, we are fully applying the Social Solidarity Benefit, amounting to EUR 720 million, and add EUR 315 million to the fight against child poverty, which came from the review of primary operating expenditure, which we are now directing to actions with greater social recompense. These EUR 315 million are now available in the social dossier, namely EUR 260 million for family allowances, EUR 40 million for school meals and EUR 15 million for the creation of new kindergartens. With the creation of the three categories of income in a total of eight hundred three thousand families, the seven hundred thirty - four thousand families will benefit. Benefit will range from 57% -110%. We have, of course, disproved these days and those who believed that this government would cut off disability benefits. In relation to the protection of children, four hundred new nurseries will be created in 2018 for another ten thousand children and a thousand eight hundred nurseries in 2019-2020 for forty-five thousand children. We have therefore almost doubled the existing nurseries. In the 2018 State Budget in the ‘Security-Security-Security’ sector, there is a captured forecast for a reduction in social expenditure of EUR 1.6 billion compared to 2017. It is something that we have also discussed in the committees, but I have to say this again, about the claim that this is a cost cut. There is indeed one difference, ladies and gentlemen, pictured in the draft budget, between the forecast for 2018 and the forecast for the closure of 2017, which is due in two main reasons: First of all, it is due to the social dividend of EUR 720 million and the repayment of contributions illegally withheld, of EUR 320 million. It's a sum of 1.40 billion euros. This amount cannot be captured and is not reflected in the 2018 budget, no matter how much you look at it, because you cannot know it by now. So there remains a difference of around EUR 560 million, which is divided as follows: EUR 210 million is allocated to the reduction of the EEAY grant, which will receive a grant of EUR 100 million in 2018, while in 2017 it received a grant of EUR 310 million. This is mainly due to the fact that the ECA is surplus and we expect it to continue to be and function in this way, that is, it will be able to repay its obligations towards the EEAS and it will no longer need to support the state budget. There are 350 million missing, which corresponds to a reduction in the grant of hospitals. The hospitals, for information, will receive a grant of 930 million in 2018, while in 2017 they received a grant of 1,300,000 euros. Of course, it will be heard that this is a reduction in the provision of health services to the citizens, but you all know that it is not really the case. And that is not so, because this reduction is mainly due to the extension of clawback and rebate. It is therefore not a question of reducing benefits to citizens, but of transferring funds from EEAS to providers to a wider range now. Hospitals, due to the extension of clawback and rebate, achieve higher discounts than suppliers and will have reduced costs. At this point I would like to make a small reference to the central policy line of the New Democracy, which is of course known for months now, that 'this government is destroying the economy, it is pursuing a tax policy, it does not want investment', and it can easily solve the problem, reduce taxes, reduce the waste state and bring growth. Yes, sir! We heard Mr.Mitsotakis and the ICU in 2016 to read out a list of tax reliefs, whether it was the ENPI, dividend tax or other sectors. Mr Mitsotakis therefore presented it at that time and continues to present it, a tax reduction package of EUR 4.2 billion. This reduction hides two things, and I say this because Mr Mitsotakis does not table a cost-cutting table and explains, not so much to us, but above all to the Greek people what exactly he intends to reduce from expenditure, what costs and what codes. If he doesn't do that, then I think he's undermining something worse here. Or is it a planned programme - I would say - for Mr Mitsotakis' programme to bring the country back to a new programme, while the country finds its way, comes out on the markets in order to be able to take an autonomous course, or actually tell us what this cut will be, what structures it will cut, how many employees will lay off, what schools it will close, what hospitals will close, what social welfare will reduce. I think it's time for Mr. Mitsotakis to answer and he'll answer. But the truth is that if someone notices this reduction, Mr Mitsotakis proposes it in two instalments for the year 2020 and 2021, knowing that our government - obviously had read the medium-term programme of the Financial Strategy 2018-2021 - proposes significant reductions in taxes both to natural and legal persons and to property tax. So you say - and we have been listening to you for a long time and I mean New Democracy - that in 2017 we increased public spending by EUR 876 million and public salaries by EUR 521 million, compared to 2016, while you - as you tabled your proposal - would have reduced it by EUR 200 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u52	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u53	Let us see them, however, one - ladies and gentlemen: From public spending, would you cut off the EUR 360 million of public service costs? Would you cut off the social invoice that is for the benefit of the vulnerable groups and where you have voted yourself? Would you cut off the public expenditure of EUR 100 million to cover the refugee crisis? Would you cut from public expenditure the EUR 50 million corresponding to the increase in farmers' subsidies? And they hear you? Would you cut off the public payroll costs of the EUR 404 million referred to and related to the State's insurance contributions as an employer? Or should the state not act as an employer? Would your salary bill cut the EUR 117 million corresponding to the recruitment of nurses and doctors? You must be clear here. Or would payroll costs cut off the amount corresponding to the recruitment of officials in the field of justice, which are so necessary to dismantle its operation? Take note of what is happening now: If you propose these cuts, to raise EUR 200 million, I think you are doing nothing, because if you saw from a quick, difficult budget review, we managed to save EUR 300 million, 100 million more than your own proposal, without shutting down structures, without practicing doctors, without closing schools, without anything. Ladies and gentlemen, I will now turn to a decisive event, which affects both the primary surplus objective and the GDP growth in 2018. I am talking about the third assessment that has been quickly and without tensions and which closes the circle of memoranda in our country. The third assessment was closed without budgetary measures and not only this, but the amount of EUR 315 million from the expenditure overview also came from this assessment. The third assessment also coincided with the third consecutive quarter of development. It also coincided with the very important exchange of EUR 25.6 billion in bonds, in which it responded - and this is the most important element - 86% of bondholders. Eighty-six per cent of bondholders trusted the government, trusted the country's economic situation and exchanged their bonds for the future. With this act, therefore, we managed to normalise the yields of the Greek debt and thus facilitate the country's exit to markets in the near future. The result of all this is known to you all: It is the vertical fall of Greek bonds at the pre-crisis levels. And you'll know, of course, that the ten-year yield fell for the first time and is now close to 4.5%. This positive development therefore marks the faith of everyone that the Greek economy comes out of the difficult, stabilises, recovers its credibility and acts positively in achieving the following objectives, namely, the primary surplus target and the forecast for GDP growth in 2018. The final draft law now provides for a primary surplus of 3.82%. I'd like to say about this divergence... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like two or three minutes, Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u54	You've got three minutes in total because they were bothering you before. You're in the nineteenth minute now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u55	Good, thank you very much. To be absolutely certain, I mean that we are predicting something more. After all, that was also in 2016 and 2017. In 2016 we covered eight times the intended target and the primary surplus ranged to around 4%, while this year's surplus will be close to 3.5% if we include the social dividend that has been distributed. Therefore, even with difficulties, fiscal adjustment in 2018 can be successfully implemented with a very high probability in line with the objectives, especially when an increased GDP is foreseen. The second point to which we must stand is the growth rate, which in real terms will reach 2.5%. I will not mention, because I do not have enough time for the factors on which it will be based. It is a difficult objective, as I have said before, but it is possible, because we appreciate - and not just us, but it is generally appreciated - that in the economy we have overcome the hardest. The country's production capacity has declined by about 10% in relation to the situation it could have been, but also with experience of countries that were in adjustment and recession programmes, we can only be optimistic about the country's progress in the future. As long as the macro-economic environment is stabilised, and as long as the view that the economy is as stimulant as consumption and investment is, of course, on the basis of the programme's implementation, the smooth return to financing from international markets, the implementation of medium-term measures to ensure the sustainability of debt and, of course, the existence of the calm international economic and geopolitical environment. In order to support this growth rate, however, to support sustainable growth, a two-digit growth in investment is required. The 2018 budget also provides for an increase in investment of 11.4%. Factors influencing this increase are obviously the new NSRP, which will start to be implemented in 2018, whose absorption by the end of 2017 will reach a record of 20%, the public property utilization plans, the starts of significant investments. I think I need to make a report on privatisation here. With regard to privatisation, our standing position was not selling, but creating schemes with the participation of the public body. Those privatisations that we did not manage to implement the Greek public participation plan, we strengthened them with a better deal for the Greek State. It is important to stress, too, that the country, by upgrading its basic infrastructure, with the spear's peak at the end of this year's four roads, is starting to implement important strategic investments. Another important factor is what I said before, the coming years of compressed Greek economy. The significant liquidity and interest that exists from major countries now for investment in our country, as well as the evolution of the programme for the management of non-performing business loans, can be transformed from big rocks to a very important tool of Greek entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u56	Please, Mr. Comrade, close.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u57	Wait a minute, Mr. President. I'm going to go through the designs and talk just a second, Mr. President, and I'm closing. Ladies and gentlemen, the country's exit from the crisis is a serious matter for us and not a political game. For us, it requires strategy, targeting and dedicating to it. The Greek people have given us the mandate to take the country out of the general and not just of its economic crisis, and this mandate will be honoured. What I have described is the main budgetary elements, its objectives, its visions, its difficult but also its optimistic side. We will fight against destruction, against the war of the moderate and systemic interests of the corrupt political system, fight with a plan, with commitment, with dialogue with society, so that next year we can plan and vote for a budget for our country that has come out of the hard commission and move on to a different course, with dignity and perspective. This is the last Memorandum of Understanding voted by the Greek Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u58	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Nikolao Teddy to the Step. Please also be quiet so that speakers do not reasonably ask for an extension of time. Here, Mr. Dendia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u59	Mr President, I may ask for an extension of time, even if there is no question of interruption. I thank you, however, from the outset you have given it to me. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we all know that the budget debate is the top annual parliamentary procedure. I would really like to agree with the Minister for Finance today that here we must discuss and not make parallel monologues. So let us see what a budget should do. I think I will fully agree with what Mr Juliarakis said in committee. The budget must serve public finances, must be of a development nature, must be redistributive, i.e. serving social justice. In the context of the debate here, then, we will show you that the budget does not serve any of these three objectives. Of course, it does not serve your ideal for the supposedly clean exit from the memorials in August 2018, which will be neither clean nor exit. We will answer both Mr Tsakalotou and your rapporteur. You ask: What are the costs to cut off so that we do not impose taxes? We'll tell you where you're wasting money without needing and where there's money lost by your inability. Finally, ladies and gentlemen of the government majority, we will also break your last argument, that of the alleged moral advantage as a counterweight to government inability. Firstly, the budget does not serve public finances because it applies the unsuccessful recipe of overtaxation. This is evidenced by the impressive "hole" in this year's revenue: three billion euros less net revenues in the ordinary budget than in the medium-term, 1.5 billion euros less revenues from direct taxes than in 2016. With this data, what are you doing for 2018? Almost half a billion more direct taxes. That's what you're doing. Have you seen any country on the planet at any time recovering the economy with new taxes? Would you please explain to us what the famous policy mix you're following is? Because we, when the economy stabilised in 2014, reduced VAT on the catering, reduced excise duty on heating oil, reduced insurance contributions, reduced the extraordinary contribution of solidarity. And certain reductions are the clear commitment of Mr Mitsotakis to the future. What exactly do you reduce? How do the citizens benefit from your infamous recovery? What do you give them back? Benefits from the noteworthy, as you used to call it, surplus. Is that how you understand, ladies and gentlemen, public finances, I take ten and turn one? You have all the years a post, a steadfast one: Taxes everywhere. Your only success is the sad first of Greece to increase taxes among the thirty-five countries - members of the OECD - and this is in recession. You called for the previous taxes not to be paid, you have imposed twenty-seven new taxes in two years. You increased the VAT rates twice. You abolished the reduced 30% VAT rates on the Aegean islands. You've increased the rates of legal income tax. You've reduced the tax. You have increased and permanentised the rates of the solidarity levy. You have increased the rates of the insurance premium tax. You've increased the rent tax. You abolished one-off income tax discounts. You abolished all the exemptions from HISPIA. You've increased the income tax advances. You taxed dividends. You have added an extra income tax to farmers. You increased the cost of raw materials in agricultural production. You've increased the insurance contributions. You have increased HNVIA in the plots, parcels, business, and even in the hotel apartments. You increased the tax on investment companies. Tired, huh? Think of you voting for them and the others who pay them!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u60	To lies, Mr. Teddy!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u61	There is more, ladies and gentlemen! You increased the excise tax on beer. You abolished the scheme of excise duty on alcoholic beverages in the Dodecanese. You imposed a tax on coffee. You increased the tax on gasoline. You increased the tax on heating and driving oil. You imposed a special charge on fixed telephony accounts. You imposed a special charge on pay-TV accounts. You have charged accommodation tax on hotels and apartments. You taxed electronic cigarettes. You increased the registration fee for cars and trucks. You've only left the air tax free! And I imagine that on a temporary basis too! But understand it: public finances are not served with ever higher taxes. Finally, this leads only to less being collected. What will benefit, for example, from capital gains in a dead market? What will benefit the new residence tax on hotels that makes our tourist product uncompetitive? Let's go to the second chapter, the so-called development of the budget. Growth rates are dramatically low. Did you anticipate or predict 2.7% growth for 2017? The OECD estimates 1.4%. Half. Do you know what this difference means? That the medium-term growth rate is being revised to unbelievably low 1%. That, while all the other advanced countries are developing faster than expected, Greece remains further behind. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, there is no growth, there is no growth without investment. The country has been deinvested. We need 120 billion new investments. In 2017, however, investment was down to 5.1% from 9.1%, which was your prediction. I mean, half of it again. And what new investments have you brought? You don't want the investments. You don't believe in investment and you prove this every day. Your ministers, your executives, are on the front line to cancel EUR billions of investment and lose thousands of jobs. And as irony you are predicting in the budget EUR 2.7 billion ahead of privatizations in 2018. Feasts coming, that's better than Andersen's fairy tales! We're going to the business, to the freelance professionals. In the last two and a half years, 77,357 businesses have been closed. From those who survived, only 4.2% plan an investment for the current semester. The last one and a half years 111,212 free professionals have closed their books. Only since the trade fee for those who closed the books has lost 73 million euros. Free trade income has been reduced by EUR 900 million in 2017. Reality: Of course you have not restored the provision of liquidity on the market. The market in suffocation and the debts of the state have turned it into the largest strategic poor payer, the largest "battery" such as popular expression. Unemployment: You are celebrating that you have reduced unemployment. Ladies and gentlemen, your information is misleading. How is it with a recession in 2015 and 2016 to reduce unemployment? The truth is that full employment is falling and flexible forms are growing rapidly. That's what's happening. In 2017, six out of ten recruits are part-time or rotating. And the Minister of Finance asks us in committee: are you opposed to flexible forms of employment? No, of course not. We're not against it. There must be, but it must not be the rule, because then the economy is ill. The truth is, too, that more and more workers see their wages dramatically reduced. The truth is the increase in the number of young people leaving Greece. You once denounced the generation of 700 euros. In two years you have made sure that the generation of 360 euros is created. This generation has your own seal. The generation of 360 euros is the generation of SYRIZANELs. Of course, there is no question of structural change for you. In any event, you are living in a previous century as to the perception of economic growth. How can you realise the need for structural changes? I would like to ask you, Mr President, if you would like to do so. The budget therefore does not serve public finances, nor does it serve development. Is he at least socially fair? Here I shall fully agree with what the Minister for Finance, Mr Tsakaloto, said. 'Justice', he said, 'in an absolute way, that is not the budget'. That's right. But it's completely unfair. Unjust with "A" capital. Let's see who really is affected by your own - supposedly - fair distribution of social burdens? Who are the most affected by your indirect taxes, ladies and gentlemen, the rich or the poor? Who is the most affected by the intangible transfer of goods and services from the low rate to the high rate of VAT, the rich or the poor? Who will affect the new reduction in CSR by 234 million euros, the rich or the poor? Who will the new 50% reduction of the heating allowance affect the rich or the poor? Who will be most affected by the abolition of medical expenses, the rich or the poor? Who will affect the EUR 350 million reduction in medical expenses, the rich or the poor? Who will affect the reduction of the social budget by EUR 1.6 billion, the rich or the poor? Who will be affected by the abolition of all benefits to the beneficiaries of the Social Solidarity Benefit, the rich or the poor? Who will affect the abolition of unemployment benefits for those who enter the labour market, the rich or the poor? Who will affect the abolition of poverty and natural disasters, the rich, or the poor? Who will affect the new reductions by abolishing the 1.5% tax withholding tax, the rich or the poor? Are the new wage cuts on civil servants and uniforms, ladies and gentlemen, tell us, are they socially fair? Is increasing the rates on the islands socially fair? Is the permanentisation of the special solidarity contribution socially fair? Is the cut-off of widow's pensions socially fair? Have you made twenty-five cuts in pensions and social benefits, is that also social law? You have weakened the middle class and impoverished the low economic strata, you have leveled everyone and especially the economically weaker ones. Is that fair too? What's fair in your world? The government obviously lives - in our view - in absolute spiritual triumph. When did he discover that auctions need development and social reasons? When did you discover that bad banks must stand on their feet through auctions? How exactly will you protect the first residence after 1-1-2018? Do you know what the results of your fair policy are? A million confiscations to civilians. Over 100 billion euros due to tax debts. Over 100 billion euros - 120 billion euros have gone - red loans. Over 100 thousand closed books by freelance professionals. These are the elements of your fair budget. Let's go to the question now. Mr Tsakalotos tells us, and your general rapporteur told us, 'Tell us what to cut off all of this'. In fact, we were told a little wildly. Firstly, the question 'what to cut off' is wrong. We do not define the taxes depending on the costs, we determine the costs depending on the revenues. He knows that, ladies and gentlemen, and the last housewife. We determine the costs according to the taxes that the economy and society bear. But let's get to the expense. What do you do with the expenses? Instead of limiting them, increase them with a body of new structures that you have built. Since 2015, you have introduced twenty new positions of general and deputy and special secretaries, 31% increase, with all posted and related. Another increase is made in these posts with new administrative secretaries and associated staff posts, i.e. you reach the eighty new secretaries. You increased the number of posted employees by 30%, i.e. another five hundred seventy-five. Recommended - listen! - Two hundred eighths of a new head of staff. You increased organic positions in the public by three thousand four hundred thirty-five. In the wider public extra, you increased the organic positions by about three thousand three hundred forty. You recommended to the general public another thousand five hundred seventeen heads of staff. You have increased the number of contractors by eleven thousand, without counting the legal persons under private law. You set up forty-eight new bodies and structures. You have recommended more than a hundred board members. Tell me, were all this necessary and had to be taxed to finance them? And get you some examples, so we don't just talk with numbers. Is the Real Equipment Management Agency necessary? Is the Public Energy Investment Company necessary? Antonis Tritsis Metropolitan Park Management Agency is necessary? The Thessaloniki Transport Project Agency, when the Thessaloniki Urban Transport Agency already exists, is it necessary?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u62	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u63	The Public Port Authority, while there's already the Port Regulatory Authority, is it also necessary? Tell me, is the National Farm Movement really necessary? The Greek Space Agency and this one necessary? Is that all necessary? And tell me, why do you exempt most of them from the actions of their organs from "DENGY"? Why do you relieve them of all the formalities for transparency and publicity that apply to the public? Why do you give them the opportunity to set up these agencies and other bodies, with new councils, with new recruitments? And why would the hires be off-site? I guess why all this. Maybe to fight the party state? Your purpose is obvious: Spitalis and overtaxation of the Greeks for the "war" of the heirs. But tell us how much this costs? Is it as much as the cut in the ESS? Maybe as long as the widow's pension cuts? But besides what you're wasting, see what you're doing with the money that's there. In the Public Investment Programme, data are declining. Public investment expenditure on 1 December amounted to EUR 3.07 billion. Your target was EUR 6.75 billion, i.e. over 3 billion in the air. With regard to the ESRB, with a revised EUR 2.3 billion target - you had it down - you have only EUR 481 million expenditure, that is 80% in the air. The liquidity from the NSRF 2014-2020 does not exist. Of the EUR 20 billion available, you have only been able to allocate for three years 2 billion and most of them relate to forward projects and bridges in the previous period. How many new major projects, of the nineteen planned to be implemented under the ESDP 2014-2020, have you submitted? Can I talk to you? Not one. None. What exactly are you doing with the operational programmes? Tell me. It is tragically low absorption in infrastructure, transport and environment programmes, 11%, tragicly low absorption in entrepreneurship programmes for small and medium-sized enterprises, less than 7%, zero absorption in the operational fisheries programme, less than 1% and zero in territorial cooperation programmes, less than 1%. For the other financial instruments, where there's money, what have you done? How much liquidity has flowed from the use of the European Fund for Strategic Investments? Do you know how to tell us? How many projects have you got approved from the so-called "Yunker package"? Because we can't find one. How much liquidity have you brought from the Asylum and Immigration Fund? Because a few weeks ago, the Vice-President of the Commission, Mr. Timmermans, called for a loss of EUR 1 billion. You don't pay, you don't absorb. You're only wasting and taxing. As far as development law is concerned, what have you done by the way? Zero liquidity. It took you a year and a half to fix it. And what did you do? In fact you made a copy of the General Appropriate Rules of Procedure. And you know it. You voted for him in June 2016. You amended it in June 2017. You have amended the aid schemes three times. The result: not even a new project integration. You therefore have - to agree - it fully fails to meet all the objectives for 2017: revenue, growth rate, investment, absorption, payments, everywhere. Except one. You know him. The primary surplus, the confessed robbery, the product of the robbery raid on the Greek taxpayer's pocket. That's what you've been perfectly fair to. You didn't leave anyone complaining. You robbed them all, the middle layers, the popular layers, all of them. And immersed in your disguised amateurism, you considered it triumph to go beyond the objectives of the surplus, thereby undermining the country's negotiating position to reduce surpluses in the future. And by the way, in order not to forget that, you also increased the public debt by EUR 14 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, the damage you have caused to the economy of the country over the last three years is huge. The damage you have caused and continue to cause the country's political and social life is much greater in every sector: health, education, public security, public administration, foreign policy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The damage you have not caused to the institutions is inconceivable. In justice, in the independent authorities, in Parliament itself, in the functioning of democracy. Because you have learned to always transfer responsibilities to others and for all the bad texts you throw the ball away in the past, in the forty years of post-multi-population, I must tell you that, in principle, the New Democracy - and you know it - did not rule forty years. But you, who are pretending to be progressive, antisystemic and incompatible, in less than three years' time, have managed to adopt the worst practices and all the mistakes and upsides of post-multi-population. In any case, what moral stature do you speak to us? You who are denounced by the President of the Council of State for raw intervention in justice. You who have chosen Vice Presidents to the Council of State on the basis of their position in favour of the constitutionality of the Pappa Act.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u64	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u65	You who subjugated the independent administrative authorities in your party interest. You guys have guarded the responsibilities of the National Broadcasting Council to set up your broadcasting shop. But that's not the worst. Tell us what moral stature are you talking about when you have voted in the House hundreds of rouspheological amendments? How do you think you can shake our fingers for the complication? Tell me. You incompatible fighters of transparency and the government, who did you serve when you eliminated the criminality of all crimes committed for violations of free competition law? Who did you serve when introducing the derogating and exceptional public procurement without even publishing a notice? Who did you serve with the extension granted to off-shore, to save the 15% tax and the fines? Who did you serve with the abolition of autonomous tax fines for the inaccurate issue of proof and for the extradition and receipt of counterfeit tax data?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u66	Mr. Colleague, just one more minute, if you'd like. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u67	One and a half, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u68	All right, Mr. Treasury.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u69	Thank you. Tell me, who did you serve with excise duty exemptions? How do you tolerate the national mediator in the sales of weapons caused by the ANELs, who was even found to have sold weapons to ISIS? [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] You know, ISIS is the one on the camera that cuts heads. Such arbitraryness has not occurred, not in the past forty years, but never since the establishment of the new Greek state. And to make our net accounts: In the forty years of postmultiple there have been many mistakes. But the country that actually received on the edge of the cliff, Constantine Karamanlis, went forward. And the Greeks saw their lives change. The GDP from $2,700 in 1974, in 2013, was nearly $22,000 in the crisis. You, forty years, all of what did you do? You welcomed the mistakes and reacted to the right ones. You only asked for costs and only recruitment. You're not the answer to the problem. You're the climax of the crisis. Your choice is a product of social question, you are a result of cheating society with lies, you are detrimental to the place. And I think everyone now agrees that this budget is your last budget. Our own will be developmental, because as Mr Mitsotakis has clearly committed himself, we will reduce taxes and insurance contributions, we will make full use of the available tools to bring in funds and to invest in reducing unemployment. And because society has been barbarically deceived, we clearly want to know where we are. We, ladies and gentlemen, believe in the power of the free economy, in the power of the free man, in the formation of the state, the market and society, in individual consciousness and responsibility. We believe in rationalisation, tolerance, pluralism of views, political decency, the critical reason, as far as social sensitivity, the support and functioning of the institutions, without which there is no democracy, in the institutional counterweights, to respect for justice, the authority and the deepening of the rule of law. We believe in the citizen's right to security, the tradition of our founder, Constantine Karamanlis. We believe the truthfulness of the new generation of Greeks, when we owe them our future to the future of our country. We stand right across against populism and lying. Against the corrosion of the institutions. Faced with the attempt to suppress the state mechanism. Faced with the shallow political morality that turns political dialogue into a witch hunt. Faced with political teratogenicities, such as coexistence with the ANELs. Against narcissistic leftism, such as the "Varoufakis" coexistence that put the country at existential risk. Against dilemmas, falsified oversimplifications. Faced with the authoritarianism of ignorance and lack of proposals. Faced with the frustration of political life. Against the division of society. We believe above all in national unity and composition. Know that the first budget we will bring, the budget of Mr Mitsotakis, will be fair, without a class mark, because we do not have a class mark, just as we do not have class enemies.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u70	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u71	We have supporters and all Greeks in fighting for progress. You, ladies and gentlemen, have been tested and failed. If you know, there is a painting of Rembrandt, to which God descends and says to King Baltasar: "Mine, menu, shekel, upharsin." It means: "I have counted you and found you lacking." So society has counted you and you have been incomplete. Days of celebration, then, coming, I urge you to hear the vow of the overwhelming majority of our fellow citizens "And of time with the good at home"!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u72	Everyone in our homes will take the holidays, Mr. Dendia. Be well! Mr. Koutsoukos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, according to the Government, the 2018 budget is the last one submitted under the budgetary adjustment programmes and marks the country's exit from this period. Is it true or is it a lie? Obviously, this is not true. Mr. Majority colleague, the 2019 and 2020 budgets, whoever deposited them, will incorporate 4,9 billion measures that your Government has already pre-empted with the so-called "fourth Memorandum". This is a cut in the personal difference between the Katrugalos Act and the reduction of tax. At the same time, the government has committed the country with excessive primary surpluses of 3.5% of GDP by 2021, 2% by 2060 and public property in the so-called surplus fund. Ladies and gentlemen, these are commitments - I would ask you to retain the figure - 24.5 billion for the next three years, that is, over 1 billion from the GDP growth we will have in the coming years. In other words, we will continue with the same policy of tax bleeding and over the next few years in order to achieve ultimately the high primary surpluses, the bloody ones, as Mr Tsipras said. So you do not speak the language of truth, and it is the multitude of times when this is the time to hand over this government, it will hand over a country committed to lasting austerity, undermining the prospect of growth and real exit from the memoranda and the crisis. The third budget we are debating today is a continuation of the two previous ones, with the same logic of measures and cuts, as you have committed the country to the third, unnecessarily and horrendously remarkably. Your first budget has incorporated cumulative measures of EUR 7.2 billion, with 3 billion spending cuts and revenues from new taxes of EUR 4.2 billion. Your second budget, that 2016, incorporated cumulative measures of 4 billion, 3 billion taxes and 1 billion cuts. Your third budget, the one we are discussing, provides for an increase in revenue of 1.8 billion and expenditure cuts of 1.2 billion. It includes, of course, new measures with new taxes and cutbacks that will also affect our weakest and poor fellow citizens. And because we are listening to your arguments, such as that the budget does not have any new measures, I am tabling this table with twelve interventions, taxes and cuts. Study him so that you don't keep saying the same inaccuracies. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Giannis Koutsoukos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The Government chose and subjected with the third and unnecessarily important memorandum to a harsh, unjust and anti-popular policy, taxes and cutbacks which, in the three years 2015-2018, achieved EUR 18 billion surpluses of EUR 7.5 billion above the targets. Here's the painting of the primary surpluses of the three-year period and the abrasions. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Giannis Koutsoukos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] These, ladies and gentlemen, were the result of this unfair political cuts and taxes, as I told you earlier. If we take into account the fact that at the same time as the country was talking about losing the expected GDP by about EUR 19 billion, it turns out to be true, that is, with reduced GDP, we have had more surpluses. Here is the table - I am tabling it in the Minutes too - of the loss of GDP over this three-year period, ladies and gentlemen. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Giannis Koutsoukos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It is clear that on the basis of growth rates - as I said earlier - the level of primary surpluses has collapsed, your political account has collapsed. Leave what we were talking about. You, when you voted for the third memorandum, told us that we were going to go to a soft financial adjustment and that we would have a financial area to conduct a development and social policy. And not only did you not do what you blamed us, but much worse things. For you, with a minus of 0.2% growth in 2016, have had EUR 6.5 billion primary surplus or 3.8% of GDP and in 2017, now that we are discussing growth that runs 1.6% - as you say, but it will go much below - we will have a surplus of 4.3 billion euros. In 2018, with a budget of 2.5%, you say that we will go to EUR 7 billion in surpluses. Ladies and gentlemen, the result of this policy is very clear: you have plunged the country into the recession. Because if we believe the international organisations - which you recently say to them, while we believe in their assessments - in 2015 we would have growth of 2.9%, in 2016 we would have growth of 3.7%, in 2017 we would have growth of 3.5%, in 2018 we would have growth of 3% and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, this loss of expected GDP is equal to the excessive primary surpluses of the same period. To think about the correlation of sizes, to the measures and cuts on one hand, the primary surpluses that - as I said - reached EUR 18 billion and the loss of GDP, and to compare these with the dividend of 2016 and 2017. So it turns out that the claim that you get ten and share one as a counter-duty is very diligent for your policy. In this same tax policy, ladies and gentlemen, which affects growth, the 2018 budget that we are debating focuses on. One point I would like to stress, because it may have dispersed your attention, is this: as is shown by the figures from the implementation of the 2017 budget, this tax policy leads to fiscal fatigue, as it is shown, by a reduction in the rate of increase in income tax. If we see, in other words, the 2017 budget, we will see that revenues will be reduced by EUR 2.3 billion against the forecast, which is largely due to the EUR 996 million reduced income tax return, and the derogation from the targets would be much greater if we did not have an increase in indirect taxes by EUR 474 million. And, of course, in 2017, expenditure will have a relative increase. Based on the revenue and expenditure of 2017, the primary surplus would have been 1.3 billion or 0.8% if, ladies and gentlemen, it had not interceededed the excessive surplus of the classified entities of the general government, where the deficit of the social security institutions became a surplus of 1 billion thanks to the cuts of the Katrugalos Law, in that you did not pay pensions, in that you increased contributions to the free professions. We note that for the proper assessment of the outcome of 2017 you must bear in mind that this budget had incorporated measures of 3.1 billion in revenue, of which 2.5 billion were new taxes and 1.8 billion cuts in social expenditure. We are now coming to the 2018 forecasts. The report provides for a growth rate of 2.5% of GDP. The Financial Council notes that the growth forecasts are very optimistic and places them under many sects. The House's Budget Office does the same by speaking of a very dangerous mix, of an unfair and tax-based policy. And since you each time are ready to take us down when we question your intentions or what you write in the introductory reports, we have nothing but to refer you to your texts, to yours, that is, to your reports both 2016 and 2017: In 2016 you predict that we will have growth and have a recession. In 2017, as I said earlier, you predicted an increase in GDP of 2.7%, you landed at 1.6%. The third quarter went with 1.3% as ELSTAT says, the OECD says we're going to 1.4%, so we're going to about 1.5%. Consequently, ladies and gentlemen, this 2 billion-dollar loss of GDP that you planned and planned for, is obviously burdening the achievement of the targets and the time that comes us, for 2018. You have only to see your prediction of the formation of gross fixed capital that was about half of what you predicted. You had predicted 9.1% and the estimate is that it will go around 5%. So, you've been out all the previous years. How is it sure you're going to be better now? And you have fallen out, ladies and gentlemen, when the international environment was very favourable, with growth in all the countries of the European Union, with lower oil prices, and now it seems that we are going to be going to another stage, which is more difficult in international terms. This therefore strengthens the arguments of questioning the achievement of the objectives. We, of course, ladies and gentlemen, can take a detailed stand and say why we are questioning these objectives. And I have nothing but to mention your own texts, where you refer to the fact that the balance of goods has shown negative figures. The balance of services was positive, but not as long as it should be based, in particular, on the evolution of certain sizes concerning, for example, the entry of tourists. You are referring, ladies and gentlemen, to your budget to the fact that you have given 4.2 billion to pay back overdue public obligations. Bravo! You did well! However, overdue amounts remain at 4.5 billion and these are revenues deducted from the real economy. In other words, they are absent from small and medium-sized enterprises and do not allow them to engage in their professional activity. You are looking forward to the development contribution of the ESDP. Yeah, but no work you're saying you're going to prepare the files. Whatever work is done, it has to do with the previous NSRP. The problem of liquidity remains. The problem of capital controls, too. Mr. Tsipras told us when you voted on the fourth memorandum that it is the ticket to quantitative relaxation. Now doesn't he care about the quantitative relaxation of Mr. Tsipras? I also want you to see how the development of the so-called extrajudicial settlement on red loans goes. While the country has made commitments, this case is not going well at all and we all know that the banking system is sitting on this mine of red loans. It also retreated the country's competitiveness from the eighteenth first place in the eighty-seventh, based on the World Economic Forum report. Your success in reducing unemployment, ladies and gentlemen, is mainly based on increasing part-time work, which we know does not provide quality employment relationships, does not provide income, taxes and insurance contributions. I think none of us should be proud that over five hundred thousand workers are paid 300 euros a month. To see what I said earlier, how tax fatigue comes, we need to look at the development of the overdue debts of private individuals to the public, ladies and gentlemen, at 100 billion at the end of the year, without adding all 30 billion to the insurance funds. However, since these figures may not say anything, I would like to remind you that in September we had four hundred and ten thousand of our fellow citizens who entered the list of overdue citizens, that is, they were unable to fulfil their obligations. Finally, more than four million, thousands of our fellow citizens, who cannot afford to have tax information because they do not serve their duties. With this data we obviously cannot talk about growth rates based on your objectives. I would also like to add that your choice to keep the Public Investment Programme too low, i.e. at the level of the former, marks a policy of recession, as public consumption will in fact be zero. In conclusion, I would like to say that a logic of 'pooring the world and in the end giving a counter-duty' is inverse to what we are saying and which we must do, that we must create the conditions to increase GDP, give jobs and jobs to pay income and tax revenues. That is why we are criticising the previous budgets and on this basis we are now coming to the 2018 budget, to see where the 1.8 billion tax revenues come from. I told you earlier, and I tabled the table, with the new taxes and the cuts. Direct taxes, ladies and gentlemen, will be increased by 478 million. This increase comes mainly from the income tax of natural persons, which will increase by 456 million, and increased consumption taxes by 431 million. - The achievement of these objectives, ladies and gentlemen, will be achieved with some of the measures I mentioned earlier. I speed up: the abolition of the 15% deduction in the clearance of tax declarations for employees and pensioners due to the advance payment of tax, the abolition of tax on medical expenses, the abolition of the reduced VAT on the thirty two Aegean islands, for which we tabled a proposal for a law to extend until the end of 2018, the new cut in the CSCE, the reduction of the subsidy on heating oil, the reduction of the benefits of unprotected children. The 2018 budget, of course, also has a reduction in expenditure and this reduction relates mainly to social expenditure and first - first - to transfer payments, which are reduced by two billion. In particular, we have reduced primary expenditure by 1.2 billion and while the Public Investment Programme, as I said earlier, remains the same. Expenditure on care, insurance and social protection amounts to 19.4 billion, reduced by one and a half billion, please. Reduced, too, are 840 million of certain operating costs. It is important to look at the cost analysis, by major category, which shows that transfer payments will be reduced by two billion, including reduced expenditure on the Ministry of Health by 532 million, in the EEA by 214 million, in hospitals by 373 million. Also, reduced costs are expenditure on some critical, productive reconstruction of the country and development, Ministries such as the Ministry of Infrastructure with a minus 129 million and the Ministry of Rural Development with a minus 225 million. Obviously these cuts will hit our most vulnerable and poor fellow citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, have you realised that you will cut the EKT from thousands of pensioners and make it a tip for 35 euros for those who remain in the system, why will the rest go to zero? Are you aware that you're going to cut off the allowance we've made for those poor people who take their children to school? Have you realised that you've messed with widows and orphans? Ladies and gentlemen, these are new and old measures included in the budget. And of course, I would like to make the same observation I made about the 2017 budget, that the primary surplus, which is planned for 2018, is largely based on the so-called 'white holes'. In other words, half of the surplus will come from the classified CECs, legal persons and social security institutions. Household? I wish. We are with you because we remember how you got up when we voted to prescribe and cut expenditure on medicines. But instead of a housekeeping, I think a general scissors have fallen. Ladies and gentlemen, what I told you earlier about the fact that the budget, the regular budget of the state has small primary surpluses, shows that a debate between the New Democracy and SYRIZA - how much taxes we will cut, what spending and so on - has finite limits. There's no room anymore. And I think that what matters in this debate is to show not only how you increased taxes, but how you allocate them. I will present to you in the Minutes this table, which shows how since 2014 the relationship indirect to direct taxation was 1.15 will go with your policy to 1.32. It is well known, of all those who know basic economics, that direct taxes are paid, ladies and gentlemen, by people's consumption. I'm filing this painting. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Giannis Koutsoukos, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And the most important thing is that those who give the social dividend will get it through direct taxation, because they go to consumption, as you know, do not go to savings.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u74	Mr. Comrade, you have two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u75	Yes, Mr. President. I am also tabling two more tables, which show that we have had a massive increase in tax revenue from 2015 to 2018, and we have also had an unfair distribution of own tax revenue. [[At this point the Member, Mr Giannis Koutsoukos, presents for the minutes the tables mentioned above, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] And when we tell you about overtaxation, you tell us that these are from the fight against tax evasion. Well, ladies and gentlemen, OLAF notes that from the 435 million, confirmed by tariffs and taxes against smuggling, you have received only 10.5 million and from the famous lists and offshore from the 555 billion that you confirmed in 2016 and the first half of 2017, you will only collect 80 million, that is 14.5%. So this is your contribution to the fight against tax evasion. And of course, I should like to say two words on the big issue concerning debt. The report reminds me of the PSI triscatatatatatum with the table, which shows that the debt service from 12 billion has reached about half. And we welcome the exchange of the bonds you have made too late. If you had done this before, we'd have saved a lot of the suffering. I shall conclude, ladies and gentlemen, to be also in the time of the previous speakers, on arms equality. Our conclusion is that the budget has two basic features. The first is the self-clearing account of exit from the memorials and the second is the harsh reality of constant austerity with taxes and cuts. It is confirmed by the quote of the sizes, budget and macroeconomics, and despite the relative improvement of some that the deadlocks remain and are repeated. The replacement, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, of Liargova, does not change the harsh reality. Liargova and every Liargova are recording it. Change as many times as you want, the reality cannot change it, unfortunately, with this policy. So we don't come out of the memorials and the crisis. The exit account does not lead to a stable and secure course of the country. We only need to think about what I said earlier: from an overtaxed economy in the years to come, we will have surpluses that are far greater than the GDP we expect. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that you have exercised a policy that has depleted the labors and sacrifices of the Greek people to cope with the excessive deficits of 35 billion in the period 2004-2009. And this cost has been recorded on several occasions. I don't have to repeat it. This cost at the social level is much higher. There is no driving force for the power of production and the healthy forces of creation. You have lost the advantage "first time left" with what you have done. And, of course, the self-sufficient output account undermines, with the primary surpluses, the exit itself, taking into account that in the coming years we will have increased public debt service costs. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we say that we need a policy change. A different project, based on national consensus and social consensus, is needed, because then only the mobilisation of productive powers can be achieved and targets for smaller surpluses and debt regulation now be reached. Production reconstruction, the necessary reforms, stability, investment and tax frameworks, and the exploitation of public property are key elements of this project, which we have called it 'Greek Plan'. Such a political project can only benefit by changing the political correlations that will overthrow the present diploma, on the one hand failed and falsified Left, which covers the populism of the hard neoliberal policies and, on the other, the Conservative New Democracy, which considers social inequalities as a natural phenomenon. So it takes a great movement of change, which will unite all the forces, from the progressive centre, social democracy, the renewable Left and the ecology, to a great force of overthrowing. We dared. We're on. They embraced this project two hundred ten thousand civilians. We move forward with the Genuines Fofi and all of us, because we believe the Greeks deserve better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u76	Thank you very much, my colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, fifty-four students and students and four educational sessions from the 2nd Kozanis High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I'd like to make another announcement. The Ministers for the Environment and Energy, Home Affairs, Economy and Development, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Economic, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime and Island Policy, Deputy Ministers of Economy and Development, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Environment and Energy, as well as the Deputy Minister of Finance, tabled a draft law on 11-12-2017: "Energy Communities and other provisions". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Mr Panayotarus has the floor on behalf of the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, before I begin, I cannot comment on what Mr Deedias said about interventions in justice. It's like a loan shark talking about a fair loan. That is what we are talking about here. Listening to the SYRIZA rapporteur on the 2018 budget, we are starting to fully understand their obsession with the permanentisation of cannabis or with their long-term involvement with missiles or UFOs. You have brought a budget, gentlemen of SYRIZA - ANEL, a memorandum of all, anti-developmental, ethicic, destructive in all respects, 'copy-paste' of previous Memorandum Budgets, but in much worse form. This is a budget of extreme austerity for the eighth consecutive year, which, in fact, as we have heard from the SYRIZA rapporteur, includes many over-optimistic forecasts. These are forecasts of the increase in private consumption, and last year you were disproved once again, and forecasts of an increase in investment. In fact, while you had budgeted for 2018 for a higher rate of growth for the economy, at the end of each year you are celebrating. It includes forecasts that the studies of IOBE, the Banking Union, the Institute of Labour of the GSE, all the range of production processes, highlight the stumbling block in which the Greek economy has been found. Even the World Bank describes as a cardboard tower the investment account of your Government. This year, it is expected - with many questions - that a total of EUR 1.6 billion will be collected from privatisations. As it has been proved, every year you fall out in relation to what you had budgeted, while at the same time the GOI charges the Greek state, the Greek taxpayers, with tens of millions of euros of payrolls, bonuses, regardless of whether they have achieved anything for what has been founded for. And we observe this oxymomile. All the indicators relating to growth are in complete contrast with the primary surpluses, all the indicators falling apart, while the primary surpluses, which were once red cloth for you, also go up this year to have budgeted the murderous 3.5%. We hear Christine Lagard on the one hand saying that he needs debt restructuring, unlike some German economists, who say 'but, after you achieve primary surpluses of 3.5%, why are you calling for debt restructuring'? Of course, no reason for a haircut. Because restructuring does not mean that we will be given something, but that they will be prolonged to the perpetual and that the Greek people will be paid for, generations and generations, which they should not pay. It is a primary surplus due to an extremist, ill overtaxation of Greek citizens, the seizures of assets, which have started massively and do not exclude any first housing, no small, no big, nothing at all, no matter your new account of 'protecting popular houses', and you once said 'no house in the hands of a banker'. Also, the primary surplus is due to the attitude of payments to the private sector, which you have completely destroyed with these practices, for freelance professionals, craftsmen, and this may be the biggest obstacle in any attempt to develop and relaunch the economy. We also see, this year, that you have budgeted tax revenues to come from 52.2% of indirect taxes - the most unfair taxes on the world level, which you have, that is, 14.8% of GDP. We're talking about incredible things. Furthermore, we see the abolition of the deduction of medical expenses, the activation of the stay fee in rooms and hotels, the abolition of the deduction of VAT on thirty two Aegean islands. This is a very important issue, in relation to both demographics, in which our country breaks down, in insurance and in relation to the defence of our country's homeland. More generally, all your microeconomic and macro-economic variables are driven to the worst. Let us remind you, Minister, gentlemen of SYRIZA and ANEL, what you were saying until the 2015 referendum and what you are saying now. At that time, the budgets of the previous governments - which are identical to your own - are simply changing the figures, the 'copy paste' budgets - were 'progressive' as you said - your phrases - and their own authors and authors were 'contributors' and 'girls'. Now that you bring exactly the same, much worse measures, what are you, gentlemen of SYRIZA and ANEL? Of course, all of this changed, by magic, with this epic "colotum" - an international terminology now - which in one night the proud "no" of the Greek people turned it into "yes". You threw your head down, not to say what else you did. By also listening to the SYRIZA rapporteur, someone who has no knowledge of who this gentleman is, that he is not referring to Greece and that he is referring to a country that has just come out of a war and has growth rates that are too great. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and ANEL, there was an exhibition by the American Ambassador Porter in 1947 to the United Nations Organisation for the Economic State of Greece at the time, which had just come out of World War II and was in the middle of the gang war. The statistics are identical to the situation in Greece of 2017. You know, three hundred and forty thousand households don't have power and, by what they all show, these numbers are constantly rising. 35.6% of our compatriots live in poverty or social exclusion. 22.4% is experiencing severe difficulties in paying the rent, in basic accounts, lacks heating and basic food products. They're tertiary world situations in all their majesty. Essentially what is demonstrated by the above mentioned data by EUROSTAT, with a reference year in 2016, is that between 2008 and 2016, the proportion of Greeks lacking basic means of living has doubled. As much as you're trying to gold the pill with various beautiful stories as you say, the reality is merciless. And the fact that the unemployment rate has improved - the only indicator that has improved over the past year and a half - is a factual fact because, as you all know, this is due solely to new part-time jobs. The figures are shocking: 54.4% of new jobs are parttime and rotating and the rest are jobs created for fulltime work. Of course, day after day, one is increasing and the other is falling. You were the ones, who in Thessaloniki in 2014, in the famous program, talking about a minimum wage or a pension of EUR 751 and now you are proud of the 360 euros, which you are giving to many of our compatriots. Not to remind you of what you were saying about suicides and their morals, etc. Now this continuing scourge has made it carrots or according to the most famous "street islands" and you want to forget what you have said in the past. Brain Drain, another crime against our country, continues at an unrelenting rate. All the countries of the earth, the major economies, currently enjoy the ability of our compatriots, the majority of young people. They have now touched the five hundred thousand who have left Greece. While the Greek state has paid from 500,000 to 1 million euros for each Greek to study it from primary school to postgraduate, it takes a foreign country completely free of charge and exploits its benefits for the benefit of that country's economy. At the same time, this Brain Drain together with all the rest is a huge disaster for our insurance system. Estimates show that in order to restore the negative ageing population in insurance, pensions in the near future should be reduced further by 17.5%, perhaps more, study by the Professor of Economic Social Policy of the Panteion University of Roboli. In the already received insurance from the PSI, the gaming on the stock exchange and investment in toxic bonds from previous governments and the further escaping of potential human resources will have a disastrous effect on the insurance system and the economy in general. The continued fleeing of those businesses that have not been closed abroad or their change of registered office also has disastrous consequences for the economy of our country. For example, Evros closed 63% of operations in Kilkis in 50%, in Rhodope, 34%, in Janna 22% and in Kastoria 21%. This is because due to your dead-end Memorandum Policies, your previous and your own, the remaining companies cannot cope with the unprecedented tax, insurance, bureaucratic loot, while any potential individual investors simply turn to other foreign markets where the investment environment is friendly and very accessible for an investment. For example, the World Economic Forum has recorded mass business migration in Cyprus, Bulgaria and elsewhere. The Capital Controls, which were supposed to be a temporary measure, were now introduced, as were the Ottoman Inspiration. There are two main reasons for the destruction of the middle-class, small and medium-sized enterprises and the evacuation of all those who can leave. We are going to the famous indicators of competitiveness in our country, which we have heard from a number of the rapporteur and the other speakers of the coup d'état. Things are just as tragic and as a country we're laughing and crying. In the last report by the Global Competitiveness Report of the World Economic Forum, our country ranks under the eighty-seventh - six positions - between thirty-seven countries. We are getting through Albania, Jamaica, Bhutan, Guatemala and other countries, which are more competitive than Greece. The public received EUR 1.3 billion less than taxes. The burden-sharing capacity of Greek citizens has now been "classified". They can't give anymore. They gave what they had and they didn't, and they owe too much. SYRIZA's rapporteur referred to the social protection network and claimed that things are better. But, in fact, the figures that you have been using for the last two years show that the proportion of the total population of our country that is at risk of being below the poverty line is at 35.6%, as I said before. At the moment, it is only Bulgaria and Romania, which are fast-tracked and appearing in the indicators of next year, that we will probably have exceeded those two countries as well. Rather indicative of the government's interest is that health expenditure in this budget is projected to be reduced by EUR 364 million, a health figure which is already at a red spot, while for hospitals we will have a minus EUR 214 million. The social profile, for which you spoke so much, is seen by what you do for the first residence. You were changing what you were saying earlier, you claim other things, but the truth is one, that the houses of all Greeks are currently being auctioned, and not only to the banks, but mainly to the vicious, dirty, resentable public, which makes auctioning houses of EUR 10,000, EUR 15 000 for public debts much smaller. For 2016 there were 13.9 billion unpaid taxes left by the citizens because, as we said, they no longer have to pay. Greek citizens now owe about 100 billion euros to the public and elsewhere. As far as the banks are concerned, the Greek people have paid them with hundreds of billions of euros of state guarantees by 2009 and then with the ongoing recapitalisations, but also with loans of around EUR 50 billion from the Greek people's fall, which we cannot pay and pay for with much trouble and everything that is happening. And all this to bankrupt and relapse the vicious and miserable banks and to have parties of all kinds bankers and their executives, who leave the banks, go to various agencies now, such as the GOI and the CFS and elsewhere, and then return to the businesses that favour any privatisations. We heard you talk about the business spirit and the various tours of the Prime Minister throughout Greece in these regional, as it says, conferences. We have seen them and if we start to list the companies that have been closed in recent years, it will not take us two hours: the tobacco industry 'Georgiadis', 'KATSELIS', 'SPRIDER', 'SOFTEX', 'ELECTRONIC ATHENS', 'ATLANTIK' and many others, at the top of 'PITSOS', as part of the extrajudicial compromise with 'SIEMENS'. New Democracy and PASOK were mainly taken there with a certain percentage, proven now, but that's what you're going to do with it. The extrajudicial compromise said that PITSOS must be upgraded and operated. Instead, SIEMENS sold it to another company and the other company shut it down and took it very simply to Turkey to build its products there. For competitive countries with regard to taxation, with bureaucracy, with insurance contributions, things are embarrassing. We want to attract investors, but with the tax regime in place, we cannot of course attract anyone at all. There is also this abstract, which is happening: As we said before, the Greek citizens owe about 100 billion to the Greek public, but also to the Greek public, they owe citizens and businesses, and they dare not make any setback in cases where the public owes citizens, not even favourable regulations. We see this paradox: A company, which has received a million euros from the Greek State from a sale, cannot pay even the IKA which owes and is a few thousand euros, and reaches one point, auctioning, closing, destroying it literally. Investments, investments, investments. That's what we hear all the time and you tell us this story, that they came, they came, they're coming, they're coming even more. We are currently at the levels of 2008, according to a revelation report by the UN, which breaks down the myth for an influx of funds. From the Public Investment Programme, by magic, there is about one billion euros that the government promised last year that it would implement, and that is probably what it went to this famous "social dividend", which will take too many foreigners, illegal immigrants, etc. and few Greeks, along with what the Greek State should have returned to them by court rulings. Regarding GDP, where in the years of the memoranda it started at 146% in mid-2009, it is currently touching 200%, despite the three memoranda and the terrible measures against Greek citizens. It is a debt that is neither sustainable, as you used to say, and that is why you wanted to delete, but it is not even manageable, as you now say, and with various terrain you are trying to convince that it is manageable. Because if it is not sustainable, it is not manageable, it is absolutely nothing. Then it should be deleted for several reasons. The only country that has a huge debt is Japan, which, of course, can manage it, because it is an industrial country that produces everything. VAT revenues are constantly falling because as VAT increases, revenues are falling too. A characteristic example is the new increases in motorways, which are almost all of them one, Bobola. It is constantly complaining that there is no vehicle transit. Uh, of course, how can there be crossing when you've put tolls every five, ten kilometers? When gasoline has increased, the cost, when everything has increased, falls too. Your practices lead to a one-way flight, as we have said, of our compatriots abroad, and that will not change, no matter how much you try to convince us. For these reasons and many others, 48% of the Greeks no longer accept the European Union, according to measurements and actually this is higher, and 77% of the new Greeks consider that the European Union is the cause of their destruction. All these beautiful stories you tell us, that it is the last Memorandum Budget and that in 2019 we will be out of memorials, rather words of air, because we want to remind you that you have basically promised our homeland and its assets for ninety-nine years to lenders. There is the strong surveillance, which we will have from time to time, the cut-off for which you are not speaking at all. In any change of indicators there will be an automatic cutter, it will not even pass through Parliament, a reduction in pensions, a reduction in wages, a reduction in everything. It is a question of how there can be growth. You say, you say, but you don't know anything. First of all, you said it once - before your memorial policies - that there should be an audit of the debt. What's more honest, what's more reasonable, what's more fair, to see, finally, where, how, how, and to whom. What was done, in the past, by the heinous dictator, Ioannis Metaxas, in 1936, who deleted a debt to a bank for humanitarian reasons and with the agreement of the League of Nations - the UN of the time - this debt write-off, therefore, was used by other countries in 2000, 2004 and 2007 to delete their debt. So the haircut is required. With the insurance funds, as much as you increase their contributions, which are increased by 1-1-2018, you are not going to do anything at all, because quite simply, demographically, the country is falling apart. The workforce is leaving abroad, so sooner or later, the ratios will be such that a worker will maintain a pensioner, which is impossible. Settlement of debts. You need to regulate debts, as you did to some municipality in Attica, who has regulated the debts to the Greek State for two thousand hundred and twenty-one years. Why don't you do something like that, even with fewer years of private individuals, be able to breathe, all they do at the moment is pay, pay, and at the end they can't pay? The middle class that, in your knowledge, as you have said, is the stylists of the economy. You pooren them, poor people, and in the end you want to make them all poor and live from social dividends, social benefits and under many conditions. If you do not reduce the VAT to become competitive, you will not do anything at all. If you do not protect Greek products, the Greek workers, as the European Union is already beginning to do against Chinese products, as does the friend and ally - as you have done in the last few days - Turkey, where it has put duties on all Greek products and not just to protect its own products, as America does, as all countries do, you will do nothing. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would also like a few minutes of tolerance, Mr President. Thank you. You will do nothing if you do not attract investors by becoming competitive anymore with our neighbours, Romania, Bulgaria, Albania, Skopje. Unfortunately, we do not have the time to tell you the tax rates, the insurance contributions and the fact that they have no bureaucracy to understand why everyone is leaving and going to these countries. Tax reduction. That's what everyone says, but no one does. We're first everywhere in increasing taxes. We only get out of Denmark, Belgium, France and Finland, four countries that have incredible quality of life and there the taxpayers are happy to pay whatever tax they have because they get it back to the multitude. When Greece has the worst tax rate, who will come to invest here? We do not have time to mention the thousands of examples of Greek businesses and why they are leaving abroad, the ruthless overtaxation of the private sector in our home country, which is not development in any way and only leads to the reduction of consumption, of smuggling and of smuggling, of smuggling, of income reduction. From seven to eight-and-a-half months each year, a Greek must work to cover the extraordinarily indebted insurance contributions and taxes. Indirect taxes "treat" about one pay-per-per-per-per-per-per-cent. The imputed income, this tax insanity "smacks" entire households. Finally, gentlemen of SYRIZA - ANEL, you have come to be the largest tax-sparklers in modern Greece, along with those of the Ottoman occupation. When and whenever the tax rates were low, the economy was flying. In the 1960s and the first half of the 1970s, direct taxes were to 2.8% of GDP and indirect taxes to 11.1% and then the economy developed at a rate of 7.15% a year. Now? Destruction, no comparison. The economy will not recover as long as you exaggerate people and businesses. It does not seem to us that our homeland has only attracted 0.56% of foreign investment in the Mediterranean when you are talking about completely different numbers. Also very important are the sanctions for Russia, which have cost hundreds of millions of euros in the Greek economy. Unreasonable sanctions, and in the end, when these sanctions are no longer available, Russia, of course, will have found to buy the products it bought from Greece from other markets. Furthermore, key pillars of an economy, one of the best investors, were the small - bonded ones, those whom you "payed", lost their properties and the Greek state lost, in turn, a very good investor, sure, timeless. Relaunch the economy. To do so, we must use all the previous things we have mentioned and start from somewhere, where we have a base, from tourism, from shipbuilding, textiles, from other issues, which obviously have our country, but unfortunately you also want to eliminate them. In any case, Mr President, this budget is a purely non-development budget which will do nothing at all, but it will bring our country into an even more difficult position and next year the cut-offs will not be able to enter after each other, because all these figures that you have budgeted are not going to come out of you. SYRIZA's rapporteur could well make an accurate copy of what the rapporteur said last year, or even get the suggestions from the rapporteurs of the New Democracy and PASOK in 2012, 2013 and 2014. You say exactly the same, you do exactly the same. All Greeks must understand now that this direction, which you have taken, leads absolutely nowhere, leads to destruction, subjugation, poverty, misery, immigration and everything that destroys our country. We believe that the Greek people should understand what happens and when and when they have the opportunity to intervene, they should do what they need to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, too. Mr Karathanasopoulos, the general rapporteur of the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr President. The SYRIZA - ANEL Government claims the world record in false hopes trade. In tabling the state budget, it claims to be the last budget in memorandum conditions and the beginning of our country's exit from the memoranda, at the same time that the government itself signs primary surpluses up to 2060, at least 2%. At a time when the government itself, not only has abolished none of the Memorandum Laws, which will remain after August 2018, but is preparing in the third assessment to bring new anti-grassroots, anti-grass measures, at the same time at the same time discussing at European Union level the strengthening of European supervision in the Member States-members of the Eurozone and the creation of the European Monetary Fund. In essence, the proposals to strengthen and shield European economic governance are worse and will certainly mark a new burden in the context of fiscal consolidation for people's strata, not only in our country, but throughout the euro area as a whole. The government claims that the new budget sets out the conditions for achieving a growth of 2.5% - 2.3%. We're not going to spoil the numbers, if it's gonna be 2.5% or 2.3% for 2018. But where fundamentally it gives its change is the claim that this is a fair development. But the development of the capitalist system by its very nature is unfair. It's class development. It is unfair, because because of ownership in the means of production, socially produced wealth is collected by a handful of capitalists, because social inequalities are even wider, because the foundation stone of the armoring of capitalist profitability is the increase in labour force exploitation. In other words, it leads to even greater relativeity, but also - for some parts of the working class - total impoverishment of the wealth-generating class. That's the nature of the capitalist system. Of course, it will be an uncertain, temporary development that will prepare the conditions for an even stronger capitalist crisis. After all, in our country we are experiencing an example of such a 'fair' development, as the SYRIZA - ANEL Government claims. I am referring to the example of tourism, where economic activity is concentrated on a handful of 'chains' that were active in the tourism sector, where professionals and self-employed are substantially narrowed, despite the parallel record of incoming foreign tourism, where hotel workers live in working-age conditions. Of course, it cannot be said that tourism, holidays and recreation are an inappropriate dream of the vast majority of popular strata. This is the nature of capitalist development and it is embodied in the development of tourism economic activity: the exclusion of the people from satisfying the people's needs, the deterioration of the state of the working class, the increase in profitability for the capitalists. And, of course, Mr Tsakalotos, trying to be a little more realistic, said 'in the given environment in which the government is forced to operate, with the memoranda of the previous governments and the commitments from the European Union, we do our best to have a fairer budget', without being fair. However, it reverses the reality, because the government is indeed the front in the realm of implementing all the objectives and requirements that currently serve the needs of large capital. You are the'significant' and what you are doing is to implement everything that the BSE, the civil order and your commitments from the European Union require today. And you do so in such a way that not only are you the follow-up, but you are basically completing what New Democracy and PASOK have not dared to do, fearing the popular reaction. From this point of view, this really is the usefulness of this government for the system and for the bourgeoisie. After all, you are committed to serving the strategy of the bourgeoisie in our country as a whole. So proceed with rapid steps in the geopolitical upgrading of Greece. So you're playing with fire. You're turning Greece into a naval imperialist forum in the wider region. You are turning Greece into a firefield on the substance through the upgrading of the Souda base, through the new base in Alexandroupolis, through the installation of new types - say "nuclearly new" – weapons on Araxos that you are preparing there. Of course we are in a region where the imperialist attacks are exacerbated, where the risk of war is much closer and the demands for sharing and releasing borders and regional players are also increasing. It also helped to upgrade Turkey's claims towards Greece, and Erdogan's recent visit to our country. So the upgrading of Greece's geostrategic position means only an upgrade of the risks from Greece's greater involvement in the US-Natural designs. It means new sacrifices for the people, because the only ones who will benefit from this geopolitical upgrading will be monopolies and multinationals, because their interests serve the objective of converting Greece into a hub of energy, a hub of transport and transit, and not the interests of the working class and the satisfaction of the people. You hand over the mineral wealth to a handful of multinationals, and indeed the only thing the Greek Government does is to share the land and make the bazaar with the multinationals. You arrive at this point where you get the credit of the Americans and the navals saying that Greece is a model, because every year it spends at least 2% of GDP, i.e. 4 billion on naval spending. At the same time, you deceive the Greek people by saying that the flooding or living conditions in the camps, which go from evil to worse, will proceed. The previous complaint is revealing about the Messology Camp: mackerel soup with worms to the soldiers. And yet, on the other hand, about 4 billion a year is your naval spending. The second objective of the urban order is, of course, the recovery of profits, the recovery of the capitalist economy, which cannot be achieved without the increase in exploitation. So, then, the crime against the rights of the working class is being completed by releasing the labour market even more so that you have a cheap, consumable workforce, a felony in the mountains of the capital cities. In fact, BSE doesn't stop there. It also requires new sacrifices. It is precisely because it is the new sacrifices of workers that will shield the competitiveness of Greek monopolistic groups. So they are sacrifices to the working class without the expiry date. After all, the same lines of approach to the labour market are applied to all the Member States of the European Union. You support in every way and in every way the designs of monopolistic groups: with financial instruments available to them, the NSRF and the Public Investment Programme, development law, the provocative tax exemptions that have parts of the capital. Of course, in the context of the liberalisation of the market as a whole, you are forcefully dismantling the self-employed and the professionals so that monopolistic companies can acquire a greater part and through the privatisation and divestment of public property to shield the business activities and investment projects of the groups. The third axis, tied to the two previous ones, is exactly to shield the system from the popular reactions, from the radicalization of the working class. And you resort to all the weapons the previous ones have taught, authoritarianism, repression, preventive arrests. You arrived at the point where you were going to the union homes in Yannina to arrest the trade unionists who claimed their jobs and to face any reaction from workers, students, youths or retired people with MATs and repression. In fact, without any shame, you have moved forward and proceeded with the completion of the crime in order to hit the greater labour order, its right to strike, and in hypocritical sense, by saying that in this way you will ensure democracy and participation in the workplace. Who are you kidding? Marx's saying, which is confirmed a hundred times today, is exactly that your urban democracy stops outside the factory gates. Do you not hear about mass redundancies of trade unionists, strikers and all those trying to deal with the terrorism in the workplace? Why are you doing this? It's very simple. In order to block and effectively cancel the workers' right to strike, because you want a submissive working class with your head plunged to implement the requirements of the bosses in full. But we won't do you the favor as a JRC. We will not let you implement these plans and the threats published will not scare us. I read: "The JRC..." - says - "It must go to open violent conflicts, to undermine every attempt to get the country out of bankruptcy. The path chosen by the JRC is slippery and dangerous for democracy." Who writes these? Not Jameris or Paschos Mandravelis, but a columnist of the newspaper "The AUGI". "AGE OF KYRIAKIS", 10 December, Dimitris Christou. This author - a new flower - was the very whole old armory used to the Communists by the darkest powers of the system. Of course, the state budget cannot reflect the government's pursuits, such as fiscal consolidation, the promotion of capitalist restructuring, which means new suffering for the people. This is only very clearly seen by reading some of the basic elements of the state budget. On the revenue side, what do we have? It is planned to increase the revenue from the taxation of natural persons, i.e. public households, by EUR 460 million in 2018. And this will come through the abolition of the 1.5% deduction in advance of the income tax on employed and pensions - which, in fact, the employees, the workers and the pensioners are hitting this - and the abolition of the deduction on medical expenses. There is also provision for an increase in property tax revenue by EUR 180 million. In the context of the third assessment you want to widen the basis for the real estate and thus hit even more the small real estate. Third source of income increase is from the indirect taxes - the most anti-grassy - on consumption taxes, VAT, by EUR 500 million. A success tool is the abolition of reduced VAT on the thirty-two remaining Aegean islands. Therefore, all this leads us to a charge of EUR 1.15 billion for 2018, which will be called upon to pay mainly for the popular layers. However, tax revenues are only projected to increase by 950 million. Are these 200 million lost on the road, or did you give them tax exemptions and tax reductions to some? Of course, the taxation of legal persons, businesses, is falling for 2018 and even at a time when you yourself say - and Mrs Papanatsiou said so - that their turnover and profitability are increasing and, instead of having increased participation, they are reducing their share in tax revenue. How's that magic? How do you do it and do it? But at least there are measures that are directly effective, such as the reduction of television advertising costs from 20% to 5% - a gift to canalarchs, who are otherwise hunting them! - or like Mrs Papanatsiou's announcement to the committee again, which said that 'we agreed to reduce the tax rate on businesses from 29% to 26%'. Who's gonna pay for the broken ones of this reduction? Because budgetary targets remain stable, the primary surpluses are here. Whoever you releases, pays someone else's money. So you take it from the people and give it to businesses. However, let us also go to the expenditure side: spending on insurance, care and social protection is reduced by EUR 1.6 billion. The financing of the EEA by 68% is reduced compared to 2017, i.e. by 214 million. The funding for hospitals is reduced by 28%, i.e. by 370 million. And what do you think? This reduction will be replaced by the increase in the financing of the insurance funds. In other words, hospitals should operate on the backs of the directly insured, either through their insurance contributions or through the same involvement of the insured, the people, with the greatest rejoicing they will pay. The CRP shall be used in 2018 for the purpose of definitively repealing the substance in 2019. Who's got it? The low-pensionist! Half the heating allowance is cut. In the same line, the poor unemployment allowance that takes it very few and provocatively at the same time increases by 100 million the allocation given by the OAED for the 'active employment programmes', as you say. That is to say, warm money is being given to the capitalists - either directly or indirectly - by giving them cheap or even free labour power with the money of the workers, with the money of the insured, because that is what the OAED is funding. Instead of giving them to the unemployed through an increase in the unemployment benefit, you give new thought to business groups for cheap labour. The third element of the budget is the Public Investment Programme, which is adapted to the implementation of the ESRB, which of course implements the European Union's reactionary policy and supports the business activities of large capital. However, the rest of the national section, you have it as a matter of priority that these infrastructures which are necessary and, as a matter of priority, serve the needs of capital in terms of profitability, the construction and use of road corridors, while, on the contrary, infrastructures necessary to protect and satisfy the needs of the Greek people are carried to the bells. We asked you as a matter of urgency: where is this increased sum promised by the Prime Minister for anti-military protection? What code are you hiding it from? You have not answered the committee. Will you reply to us in plenary? Where does the funding for flooding result from? We can't find it anywhere, it doesn't come from anywhere. And of course, within the framework of the state budget, you are speeding up privatisation to EUR 2.7 billion, an increase of 1.1 billion, by privatising public undertakings active in the energy and transport sector. The result is the depletion of the 'blooded' primary surplus of 7 billion from 4.4 billion this year, an increase of 63%. You will achieve this by increasing taxation, cutting spending, but also by the surpluses. They have surpluses in hospitals, at the same time that they cannot function. You achieve surpluses in the insurance funds by 1,8 billion euros, through the reduction of pensions and the reduction of benefits, to return through these "blooded" primary surpluses some "bone". So you're calling on the poor to pay for the impoverished. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The state budget is unjust, classic, anti-linguistic, it's a redistribution tool. You take it from the many to give it to a few, so we vote against it. And of course, if you don't achieve these goals, you have tools in your hands. And these tools come from the third assessment discussion with the new measures envisaged, the auctions, the early reduction or abolition of duty, with the banks' stress test, with the fourth assessment. You still have measures for the "wig" of the working class and the people. That is why today - and I conclude, Mr President, with this - it is a perverse and militant movement, a movement that will overthrow the correlations of power, which will change consciences, a movement that will be able to break down employers' terrorism, break the government's stunt. The effort you are making to undermine the strike right is for the Communist Party of Greece and for the class movement cause of war. What we are doing today is calling on fantasies for the complete success of the strike on 14 December, because what we really need is a movement that signals the real opponent. And a real rival to the working class and the people is capitalist profit, it's capitalist property, it's the interests of the bourgeoisie, it's the rotten capitalist system that serves these interests. This must conflict with the working class and the rest of the people's layers. The conflict with the real opponent is the one-way for the people, to change it all, to take the case in his hands, to take power in his hands, so that he can, by exploiting all production capacities, satisfy with sufficient capacity all the people's needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u80	Thank you too, Mr. Karathanasopou. Mr Kammenos, the rapporteur-general of the ANELs, has been speaking for twenty minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u81	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this evening we all have the chance - I would say - to propose and vote in favour of the last budget under the strict supervision of the institutions, which has brought many sufferings to the country both on a personal level, to families and at national level, to the Greek economy. I shall read a text for historical reasons, because I do not think we will have to reread historical documentaries of the time for how we entered the memorandum: "On Saturday, 21 November 2009, five officials of the European Commission, Eurogroup, the European Central Bank and the Greek Government, together with their partners, gathered in the office of Prime Minister of Luxembourg in full secrecy and on the condition that this secret meeting will never be made public. Jean-Claude Juncker was the host and his guests arrived in Dukato from Frankfurt, Brussels and Athens. ECB head Jean-Claude Triche, Commissioner Hoakim Almunia, Greek Finance Minister George Papaconstantinou, and the Governor of the Bank of Greece Georgios Provopoulou were present. The author of the secret meeting was informed by a tested Eurogroup source, chaired at the time by Mr. Yunker and confirmed by Mr. Papaconstantinou, who said "at the time we were asked for measures to reduce the deficit of 2010". In particular, it noted "the ECB proposed a very large reduction, talking about 4-5 points of GDP. Finally, in the budget we put 3.6 points of GDP down, which, with the extra measures in January, became 4 points," said the then Minister of Finance, Mr Papaconstantinou. On that day Mr Yunker, Mr Trichet and Mr Almunia sent Mr Georgios Papandreou a'mini Memorandum'. It was their proposal to end the crisis in her generation. The then Prime Minister never answered them and Greece was led to the destruction." This is a small introduction from Mr Ignatiu's book - I've read it too many times - to which Mr Papandreou has simply commented. If I had written this book and had written so heavy things and the rest that it describes in his personal book, that he never replied to the mini-memorandum that would save the country and later that we had a EUR 25 billion request to be given to Greece for its financial needs - which I knew then from my market experience - by June 2010 and we did not get it from Deutsche Bank, from Mr Vizer and others, then perhaps someone could be accused of treason. Or he could sue and sue the journalist, who writes so severely critically and makes such serious accusations about a Prime Minister. None of this happened. That's all true. The materialistic programme, followed by the unfortunate choice of the then government of PASOK, Mr Papandreou, with Minister Papaconstantinou - we remember this sad image of the purple tie on the beautiful island of Kastelorizos - brought: Load Greece with 280 billion euros new debt. By the time we came to the government, measures amounting to EUR 58.6 billion were taken. The loss to the Gross National Product at current prices was EUR 61.6 billion. The ‘red’ loans increased in the period up to December 2014 by EUR 58 billion. We lost EUR 8.5 billion in insurance contributions from the young 800,000 unemployed who created the first two Memorandums of PASOK and New Democracy. We must add, of course, the PSI and so on, but only from job losses we have lost 800 billion euros from insurance contributions. Bank damage - I will also mention an indicator of great importance - was EUR 37.7 billion from the PSI. The insurance funds of EUR 13.4 billion were damaged to which we add another EUR 8.5 billion that has been lost by the unemployed. The losses of the Financial Stability Fund were EUR 30.2 billion of the stock value. This is the money of the Greek people we borrowed, we put it in the banks through the HFSF and the HFSF lost EUR 30.2 billion of shares. When we took over, we had lost in March 2015 - we had not ruled a month, but then the results of 2014-30,2 billion euros came out. When he came in 2015, for which he has been very critical, there has been a lot of discussion, what no one has ever said and now we hear something about preventive lines and 'will you take it' and 'what will you do'? and "will be a memorandum", I said it since then, and in my suggestions to two budgets in 2015 and 2016: The preventive support line whether it is the ESM or the IMF - and the IMF has preventive lines - is a strict memorandum with a new loan, a new financial relationship and strict supervision, as the articles of the contract that one must sign. One does not say that in 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018, the financial needs, which were already born from previous memoranda, were 54.2 billion euros. If the previous government said in December 2014 that, because it was on the markets, it would come out of the memorials and tear them out, it had to find EUR 54 billion on the markets by 2018, when the spread in December had reached 9.6 points and the CDS had been ejected. In other words, if we were not to come to the government, the previous government had to find 54 billion in three years from the markets. At what rate, though, since he had not taken any structural measures, which we have had to take and which we now have to blame for? He had done nothing about the red loans. He had done nothing to collect the VAT. He lost half-weightly of VAT 5.2 billion a year over all the Memorandum years. We received, last year, the VAT that they had not collected in two years' time. So the 54 billion that they should also take through a preventive line that was then advertised as a free and free pillow - nowhere there is free money and a pillow of 54 or 80 billion euros - was then a memorandum, it was a strong relationship then. We now have no preventive line. But then in the summer we succeeded and took 86 billion pounds, which enters the public debt when the disbursement takes place and from which we have received EUR 30 to 32 billion so far at a rate of 1%. We got it for 32.5 years. We are financing the needs of the three-year period, the 54 billion euros, which the previous government would not find. We managed and received funding for thirty and a half years for a 1% repayment. This is a discount on this debt of over 25% in net present value. But we must not go into such technical details now. From now on, the end of the year and in 2018 there are many important things to be done and important steps to be taken in the Greek economy. What is very important to analyse and say, for me at least, is how the issue of red loans to banks will be solved, which has nothing to do with the banks' capital adequacy and their good level so as not to need either increases or recapitalisations again. Because we must all know that there is no longer money for recapitalisation by the partners, by the ESS. Therefore, if the banks need capital, capital increases should be made by the existing shareholders. All the money that has not been used out of 86 billion is left out and I will say a little later on about the use that is planned for them in relation to the pillow that we need to get out of the market. It's important to say some numbers and I'll leave a little table of analysis I've done, talking about red loans. I'll start from 2007. House auctions in 2007 were thirty-six thousand two hundred fifteen, in 2008 they were forty-five thousand forty-five auctions in houses, in 2009 they were fifty-two-seven, in 2010 they were forty-seven thousand seventy-one, in 2011 they were forty-four thousand fifty-nine, in 2012 they were twenty-five thousand nine hundred fifty-five, in 2014 they were sixty-eighty-five, in 2015 there were eight thousand seven hundred thirty-seven, in 2016 there were five thousand six hundred forty-one and in 2017 and even September were six thousand seventy-two. From the table, if you look at it schematically, the amount of tens of thousands of auctions in the years before the memoranda and the declining state of the auctions up to the first nine months of 2017. Here it is important and comparative to know that the cause of this increase in auctions, which at the time did not make any noise on the streets, did not break anything, nothing happened for any reason...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u82	Mr. Kammenos, was that for the first residence?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u83	Residences. They were homes. First, second, third, twenty-five. They were dwellings. I also have securities, which are money, bank accounts, but it doesn't matter. Let us say that this increase has been because red loans have increased. In other words, as I said, the world with the first memoranda, the measures of 58.5 billion and eight hundred thousand unemployed, did not have money to serve the loan at least to the housing loans. We see that red loans in 2007 were 10 billion, in 2008 it was 14 billion, in 2009 it was 22 billion, in 2010 it was 30 billion, in 2011 it was 41 billion, in 2012 it was 56 billion, in 2013 it was 76 billion and in December 2014 it was 80 billion. In other words, it started from 10 billion in 2007 or, if you like, from 22 billion in 2009 and was handed over to us 80 billion. At the same time, tens of thousands of auctions were made. We had a total of six thousand and seventy-two auctions mainly of strategic malpractices, because I have not seen anyone - and I will plunder a little - who loses his home to break the head of a judge or a notary. I see a lot of people completely indifferent - I do not want to describe all of this astray otherwise, and I will say it like that - because I will tell you the example I have mentioned in the committee. He goes in, takes a shower, bores unconsciously and indiscreetly anyone, but one who says, "Hey, you, my house, my family, I will kill you!" I haven't seen one. Have you seen each other? Have you seen, ladies and gentlemen, a beneficiary of a duo in an auction? Why is that, or rather why isn't it? There are many reasons for this. The example was this. I will also say this in plenary, and I think it is worth it, for the Minutes. The auction was attacked, beaten and beaten by the company's lawyer, who kept a check of EUR 33 million to buy the LEDRA MARRIOTT. In other words, at that time he gave lawyers court the money to pay IKA and unpaid employees' wages to LEDRA MARRIOTT and man was beaten. Convicted of me. He came and told me that after all, thankfully the transaction took place after a long time. This is a real incident. It is something we must denounce. We're not coming here to ask about a situation. We know very well what's going on. And especially some of us who have worked in this system, if you want, the banking or the financial system, we know very well. The banks also know, as do TIERISIA. Who is it, what company is it? I'm saying it so you know it and it'll be recorded in the Minutes. It's an anonymous company in which shareholders are all banks. So TIERISIA S.A. knows at any time from his shareholders, who are the banks themselves, everything for everyone. He knows who's got red loans, who's late, who's a strategic bad-payer, who's not. He knows the habits. There are algorithms built in the systems and from there you see the payment habits in any relationship you have with the bank, from a consumer card, a housing card, a holiday, a holiday or a land loan to everything. You see the profile of each borrower. So he knows the system who the strategic badge is and has no reason to get home, first home. If it happens, it's gonna happen by mistake. And it may have been done. Strategicly no bank does want homes, neither does the public want homes, because in the end will the millions will have to pay the world in HISA and the maintenance costs of buildings, which will be much more expensive than getting them out in an auction at least at the value of the forecasts they have received, around 50%.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u84	Is it a public charge?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u85	Possibly, Mr. Teddy. For example, if you have twenty or thirty thousand real estate...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u86	Oh, it's going to get worse!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u87	Financially, I'm going to talk now. Assuming I'm the Minister of Finance. And I'm saying I have to collect 1 million of ten thousand real estate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u88	I wish you well.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u89	You have also made a proposal, if I remember correctly, for the municipalities to collect it. Let's talk about it. He now goes out to mayor and says "I will buy my citizens' loans". That's what we need to see. I'm not against it. But it's too dangerous. I'll say it. We are changing a little bit, but if the honourable Member is well, we will analyse it a little. It is not such a simple process for a municipality to create a speculative company that will buy out the loans of the municipality of red, unserved, i.e. the denounced loans. And then what's he gonna do? It will buy them at a value of 10%, 20%, 3%, 5%, anything, if it can and if it has jurisdiction, and the bank and the Bank of Greece give them that right. Let's say he does. Then what will the city do with it? To what end will this company have been created? What's he gonna say to Gym? What's he gonna say to the IRS? What VAT will he have? Who will manage this property and for what purpose? Sell it again? Should he rent it again? Give it to the public to pay it back with a loan or a rent? That should be cleared up. It'll be cleared up. It's too easy to make TV policy. To do the paper "Buy Home" is not the same. I don't know how many of you have happened to go buy a house or a real estate. However, how much more someone who has bought or managed hundreds, as has happened to have done myself and perhaps many other colleagues, knows that it is the hardest and most demanding thing to do and to prove that you will not be a thief and you will not go to jail. Because you can, by taking the city's houses, end up in jail if you don't notice, because you're not a bank. You're a company that's going to manage real estate, which has different laws and rules. From now on, since we have made the first trial and highly successful exchange of PSI bonds, which ended on 30 November, almost 30 billion, with five new bonds, which gave another product to the investor, which provides liquidity and is also exchangeable and marketable on the secondary market - anyway, to record - this is a step of the fact that Greece is on the right track and that it can also make a second and third and fourth edition in 2018 and August to come out of the loan relationship completely. I'll say the numbers. I'll testify the painting as well. From now on, the loan requirements for the next seven to eight years are on average EUR 6.2 billion per year. It's minimal. We had in 2015 18 billion. We had 54 billion for three years. For three years, from 2015 to 2018, we had 54 billion, without new needs, without financing the deficit, but only the debt that was going on and you had to borrow it to recycle it, make up for it. I'll testify all the documents together, so I won't testify one, one. So because we have a few financial needs, it is extremely important that it go well. And that is the purpose of the government, 6,2, 6,3, 6,5 billion, which we have in the middle of the next eight years to borrow from the markets, so that we do not need the support mechanisms for Europe, so that we can get rid of them. And that is the clear way out, that we can cleanly, without the Eurosystem, the International Monetary Fund, or any European Agency, financing our borrowing needs every year. It is very important that we have cleaned several times over the last two years, and that red loans, especially housing and quite business, have been increased. The extrajudicial mechanism now shows how it starts, shows that we first managed to put the private debt management, this extremely important principle, the haircut or the negotiation of the public for any requirement it has over any businessman. Three transactions have been made, which are extremely important, because there is interest cuts, surcharges, signed by the public that it no longer bears civil responsibility, that it no longer harms the public, if it cut taxes and surcharges. And it regulates a hundred and twenty instalments and will at least, according to my information, follow ten major business loans in 2018, which will also have capital cuts and have interest and surcharge haircuts and will not only be debts to insurance or tax authorities, but also to banks. In other words, everyone sits on the table and he is a lever of growth and a lever that will clarify the balance sheets of the banks so that no further needs are created. [[This is where the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President is ringing.]] I'm gonna need two minutes, Mr. President. Because in the spring, which we will have the banks' best endurance tests, we will have to practically prove - as it goes well and will close well in 2017 in all numbers in relation to the openings and red loans - that it will continue in the first half of next year, so that there will not be any new capital requirements. As you have already said, there is no money to make bank recapitalisations from the mechanisms, from the ESS. And because the ESS at the moment has not taken the role, which we have often suggested to be the European Monetary Fund, that is to say, having our own authority in Europe to finance and manipulate the needs of all the states, whether long or medium-term, and also to control budgetary pacts, we will have to have sound bank balances. This means that the extrajudicial must function, that electronic auctions should be made for the houses and properties of the batters, which are now publicly posted, so there is nothing hidden. They're publicly posted online, see each day what comes out. If something has escaped and we are wrong as a state, as a government, as banks, it will be denounced. But that can't be the case. Because what has happened so far - I have explained it before - was something which has been a way of preventing the banks from being restructured. And there, if we need new loans and the auctions do not succeed and the out-of-court does not succeed, then by March the EQR mechanisms will tell us, that is when they check the quality of the banks' assets and liabilities and the openings, that they need 5 or 10 billion. Who's gonna give these 10 billion? We will address the bondholders and shareholders to cover an increase in the bank's share capital. There too, if there are no capital increases - we will say that - there will be merger scenarios of even the Greek banks from four to three, or two and a half to two. These will not be good for the Greek economy. I hope that all Members will understand this without a further analysis. Looking at revenue and expenditure - and closing with the budget table - it is clear that expenditure needs to be packed. Revenues have exhausted the world and, of course, the company, which, as much as we drop taxation at the moment, cannot recover if there is no demand, if there is not the necessary purchasing power, if there is no minimum income in the household, which exceeds the obligations to go to consumption. [[This is where the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President is ringing.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. So we need a collection of expenditure and we need another policy, which we will be able to do at this time, of the time of God, in the 2019 budget, dismantled by the European authorities and the Eurosystem, so that we can make a flexible social and development policy without having control of those who lend you and tell you what to do. And it is almost certain that the International Monetary Fund will not participate in the next programme - that is my assessment - and that is extremely positive. The Europeans can do this by themselves, between us, at home, but each European and every European state must be serious enough to follow the rules. Finally, let this tax inequality disappear, that is to say, in your neighborhood, that Cyprus has 12% in business taxation, and you 29% and 26%. Then we wonder why Cyprus or Bulgaria is pulling the investment and not Greece. Legal certainty, seriousness and harmony in every government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr. Cammene. I would ask Mr Katsiantonis, the General rapporteur of the Centroon Union, to have the floor for twenty minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to discuss a very serious issue for both the current parliamentary term and the upcoming one concerning the country's economic situation. We have in front of us to judge and compare economic sizes, figures, forecasts, and above all a single bet: will the landmark year be, as the government claims, which will eventually lead the country out of the memoranda and the economic crisis? I have learned in my life to be objective and that is what I will do today. Let me start my speech from the negative and close my speech with the positive. I have listened very carefully in the past few days to colleagues of the government majority in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs to say that 'we will get out of the memorandum', 'the freedom of the government will be increased', 'the end of January', but at the same time we have not said exactly the parametric measures for debt write-down. "The investors do not care so much that the issue of taxation is the first in their hierarchy. Therefore, the investment reform is not primarily tax’. "The new financial instruments we have advanced are the development law, the ESDP and the Development Bank." I note, ladies and gentlemen, that what I have mentioned so far is in the text of the Minutes of the Committee on Economic Affairs. So I come here to judge and compare with you what is clear, possible, obvious and operationally, politically planned. The exit from the memorandum, as you call it, means just a change of terminology. I do not say that, but our European partners keep saying that. Of course, we must not forget that wherever they are and where they stand, they remind us that we are not going to get out of surveillance. The increase in the degrees of freedom you call well you know that it is too optimistic, because we all know that strict surveillance has been privileged and agreed since 2019. At this point too, I am very sorry, but I must remind you of the cutter as well, with what that implies. You're talking about increasing the wealth produced, but you don't tell us where, about who and how. And I'm going to talk about some numbers. As we have read the data from EVA's analytical periodic statements in March 2017, five hundred and eighty-two thousand employees live below the poverty line, with a salary of EUR 407 for part-time work. Characteristics, according to data provided by EUROSTAT for last year 2016, between the twenty-eight countries of the European Union, our country had the highest share of GDP taxes, reaching 42.1% and recording an increase of 2.3% compared to 2015, where the rate was 39.8%. Not to mention the fact that two out of three Greek consumers have been late in the last 12 months to pay some of their obligations in time. The answer why about 70% of these people couldn't handle, is they just don't have any money. One more negative record, according to the same investigation. We have the highest percentage of late payments by natural persons in relation to the other European countries. I continue with the positives you plan to restructure the debt from January. Believe that you say it and believe it or do you just wish to cultivate artificial optimism? All we'll expect is for the future to show us. We all know, ladies and gentlemen, that the debate and any decisions on debt write-down are unfortunately in the air. Let me say, however, that in my personal opinion I do not see any write-down before 2019. They will try us very hard and, indeed, persistently as a country if we have cohesion, political consensus, stability and real reformism before they come out of such good news from our European partners. I move on to what you see positive for 2018 and go to the investors. For them, you say that they do not fundamentally care about the issue of taxation, but simply see it in parallel with the social, political and economic context. So let us see what growth means and how investment will come. Economic growth means increasing the actual production of products and services in an economy over time. To see if we have real growth, we take as an indicator or a measure of comparison the long-term average percentage rate of growth of real Gross Domestic Product. So you come and tell us that the success story for 2018 is based on a primary surplus target of 3.8% of GDP. In order for people to understand what we are talking about, we are talking about some EUR 7 billion to come up with about EUR 600 million in the year. You are predicting an increase of 2.5% of GDP, and even you have the hope of growth by 0.1%, in just one month of the debate on the preliminary draft. While you said the same thing last year, that is to say we would have 2.7% growth this year, we hardly caught 1.6% of GDP. So what development are we talking about? The utopian or the one we dream we'd like? Gentlemen of the government, growth without productivity, without capital accumulation, without population growth and technological progress I personally do not see. I am not making this out of my mind, but I am referring to one of the most valid theories of economic development, the Solow model. So tell me, where do we have a positive figure in relation to these factors I mentioned? To the demographics he goes - to say it popular - against hell? What about the accumulation of capital, which only goes down the road? In the productivity increase, when more than fourteen thousand enterprises have taken down the rolls since the beginning of the year throughout Greece, according to the data from the General Commercial Register? Not to say for the five years 2012-2017, during which the companies that closed are more than those that opened. And to speak with numbers, they put a couple of seventy-three thousand businesses and opened two hundred and fifteen thousand ninety-seven. Or do we have any very promising technological progress? You understand that most of what is written in the budget under consideration is unrealistic, unlikely, unforeseen, unrealistic, unrealistic with real economic sizes, theories and practices. They're just most of their general locations. Because this is only the case when we talk about inappropriate practices. Everything you expect for 2018 is based on an increase in taxes, social benefits cuts and austerity of lasting. Provide for a tax recovery of EUR 4.1 billion. You say, however, that in 2017 tax revenues will be less than EUR 1 billion. Really, this EUR 1 billion gap, how will you cover it? You are also talking about an increase in State receipts of EUR 2.1 billion over the current year, which, anyway, has been considerably delayed. All of this is anticipated by extra taxes, such as EUR 1.1 billion from households, EUR 456 million from personal income tax, EUR 179 million from ENPI and EUR 517 million from VAT. At this point I would like to remind you of your last year's practice - which threw us out in 2017 - with the reimbursement of taxes of EUR 5.6 billion, due to the excessive taxation of last year and the advances in taxes on income which were ultimately non-existent. Should we expect the same in 2018? We also see a reduction in funds for pensions, health and welfare by 1.6 billion euros, a reduction in funds for insurance, care and social protection by 600 million euros, a'scanning' by 75%, that is, about 40 000 our fellow citizens will not get it. Reduction by 50% of the heating allowance, for which only EUR 58 million is foreseen. An increase in the contributions of freelance professionals with revenues of EUR 59 million. From 1-1-2018 the contributions will be calculated on the basis of net profits, increased by the insurance contributions in 2017, i.e. they will also pay insurance contributions for the insurance contributions they have already paid, without being deducted, as currently in force. We will also have a new tax on hotels and rented rooms, with an estimated revenue of 74 million euros. Additional revenues of EUR 68 million due to the abolition of the deduction of the withholding tax on wages and pensions. Finally, we must not forget the pension cuts for widows and widows, which amount to about EUR 196 million. Do you really think that your policy is social solidarity? I personally don't see it. It's clear you're expecting to put money on the state's funds from cutbacks and tax raids. As I spoke in detail on development, I would like to mention that the International Monetary Fund believes that Greece for 2018 can achieve a primary surplus of up to 2.2% of GDP and not 3.8% of GDP. So what we're saying is a 1.6% of GDP gap. For people to understand us, this amounts to about 3 billion euros. If that does happen, what does it mean? Does it mean that you will apply the countermeasures before 2019, or will you vote for new measures or - worse - will you postpone social measures? Unfortunately, we have several foundations, for which both you and the previous governments in recent years are very responsible. A negative first of Greece comes from the OECD report, which unfortunately ranks us champions in tax burdens at the wages for 2016. We are the only country among the OECD members that the average tax burden on single employees increased by 1% compared to 2015. Another sad first comes from the OECD, which in a relevant report reveals that Greeks have the lowest insurance coverage from all other member countries. It is also noteworthy that Greeks pay a lot of money for medical expenses amounting to 4.4% of their family budget, when the average of OECD member countries is around 3%. Continuing, I will be a little dissatisfied with the new OECD assessments stressing that the insurance system in Greece is unsustainable, despite the continuous horizontal measures taken. The same negative record adds Greece's position as a tax champion in a total of thirty-five countries. You have indeed succeeded and raised the country first for 2016 in tax increases in relation to GDP among thirty-five OECD countries. In fact, according to OECD figures, tax revenues in Greece increased by 2.2%, reaching from 35.4% of GDP to 38.6% of GDP in 2016, i.e. you have achieved several protagonists. I will close our country's cherry roots on the cake, which is no more than the famous social dividend you share with grace and joy to all those in need, as you have formulated. Did you really see how many people applied for they really need and how many will see in their bill this allowance? You have introduced absurd criteria that lead to the exclusion of thousands of fellow citizens, such as the presumptions of common bank accounts, changes in the household composition in terms of guests, the calculation of last year's bonus income, the exception to multitude with four or more children, if they have more than 1.929 cubic metres old and more. In fact, the latter consider that they are persecuting life luxury, because they have vehicles of this category, ignoring that they are working gear and not a luxury type, even if they meet all other income and assets criteria. I will mention examples to understand the extent of injustice: Couple, with two adult unemployed children who are hosted, where the two spouses have an income of 10,500 euros, each unemployed child with an imputable income of 3,000 euros, i.e. they have an overall income for a dividend of 18,500 euros, where they will receive 625 euros. However, the calculation is incorrect, since it is not calculated on the basis of the method of calculating the tax, i.e. individually. If this were the case, they would receive the EUR 525 pair and the children EUR 450 each, that is, the total family would receive EUR 1.425 instead of the EUR 625 this year. Similarly, the pensioner with a pension of EUR 750 per month, namely EUR 9 000 per year, because you in his last year count him the sum of EUR 300 that he received as a social dividend - which means that he exceeds the tax rate of EUR 9 000 - he unfortunately loses the dividend of EUR 250. If you think this is social policy, I do not know what else to say! Unfortunately, the economic, social and political situation in this budget does not leave much room for growth and optimism. I hope that some interventions will be able to avoid the prick. Appreciably, the messages are the messages from the overview of the costs of General Government bodies, the enhancement of tax compliance provided that citizens' tax obligations and the modernisation of the public health, social security and welfare system are reduced to balance with other poor forecasts and in 2018. But, unfortunately, this is not enough. I shall refer here to a number of additional points that indeed show optimism. The fact of the EUR 3 billion bond-holder issue meant a return to funding through international markets after about three years. The recent Eurogroup Decisions of 15 June 2017 on an indirect guarantee from European partners to the Greek State for uninterrupted outlets, which will entail a possible disbursement at the end of the programme, part of the undisposed loan funds of the current programme. The data relating to the secondary securities market, from which it appears optimistic, with buyers showing interest in government bonds and thus showing a strong price rise in government bonds and a corresponding decrease in yields. The growth rates of 12% in the sales of new cars in the country in the ninth month of January - November 2017, which amounted to eighty-nine thousand two hundred sixty-six against seventy-seven thousand seventeen thousand two released in the corresponding nine-month period of 2016. The increase in exports in the first eight months of this year, which, according to the figures from the export link and ELSTAT, amounted to 3.5%, although the increase in trade deficit and the inability to strengthen domestic production is the result of reverse reflection. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation is difficult, but it must not be made more difficult. We must unite forces, thoughts, opinions and actions to get out of the difficult and long-standing problem of the crisis, a crisis that we all see is now more social and humanitarian, rather than economic, as was apparent in its principles. It is at least regrettable to read inquiries, such as the investigation of INTRUM, a company that acquired part of Eurobank's red loans, saying it is a great deal of pressure for parents that they cannot pay the goods they need for their children. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like one more minute and I will close. Thanks for the tolerance. In Greece, in particular, these parents account for around 50% of the total, which is higher than the other countries concerned. They are the same parents who say they believe and fear that their children, our children, will live in a worse economic situation than they do. And more than anything causes upsetting and disappointment to see written press conclusions that the Greeks are second to 31%, after Hungary, who want to leave abroad for a better future. I close, telling you "At Athena and the hand is on." Ladies and gentlemen of the government, don't expect everything from luck or juncture. We'll all have to unite the forces. No more discord. With consensus and understanding, we must move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr. Katsiantoni. Please, the party's general rapporteur has the floor. Potami, Mr Amyras, for 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, speaking of the 2018 budget, it will be important - I think - to remember exactly what Eukleidis Tsakalotos, the Minister of Finance, said a year ago, namely, in a few days' time. We will see whether there have been mistakes, what has been the mistakes - human beings - but above all whether the same mistakes are repeated and indeed individual errors. So last year Mr Tsakalotos had set two main budgetary objectives and two political objectives. The first budgetary objective was: Development for this year, in 2017, 2.7%. The second budgetary objective was a primary surplus of 2.2% compared with a commitment to one and a half creditors. Today, 12 months later, things are very different from the objectives set by Mr Tsakalotos. The development for 2017 remains hypotonic. The figures for the first nine months of 2017 -- which came out recently, together with the third quarter of the year - tell us that the economy does not run at a rate greater than 1% of GDP. So Mr Chakalotos corrected the growth target, from 2.7% to 1.6%. Will we have growth for 2017 of 1.6%? I'd like to, but unfortunately the evidence doesn't take it off. I wish, but it's impossible. Why? Because we have the last quarter of the year and we will suddenly have to have the Greek economy, for this last quarter of the year, developing 3% in order to reach 1.4% -1.5% overall growth for 2017. The most worrying thing, however, is that while the Ministry of Finance undermined the development goals, the Commission at the same time upgraded its own objectives for the economies of all the other countries of the European Union, with the exception of Greece. Just to say, 2017 was a year when the SYRIZA - ANEL government increased, raised the country's difference from the rest of Europe. Let me tell you differently. Imagine a race of strength - I was a half-resistance runner in a thousand five hundred and five thousand meters - are endurance and roads that want and intensity and steady performance. So what do we see? We see that in a twenty-eight-eight-old race, Greece is sadly last and sweaty in 2017. In early 2015, he received the growth sponge, based on the 2014 data, at a very high growth rate. It was within the first positions of the countries of Europe in their GDP growth - what it means is that jobs are being created - the economy is growing, more jobs, more jobs - and in 2017, with the elements of the Commission, Greece is last on the map of the twenty-eight growth. I got out of Britain because they wanted to play on their own field. Shall we say it more simple again? In 2017, after two years, we started running forward as a country. In 2015 and 2016, not only were we not stationary, but because of a recession, we were backwards when the rest of the Europeans were running forward at a high speed. For 2017, however, since the figures are inextricably, they are developing one and a half units of heavy - heavy, compared to an estimate of 2.7% that the Minister of Finance told us. This means that our speed, instead of increasing, as our Government wants to make us believe - and I wish that had happened - is unfortunately falling in relation to the speeding up of the rest of the Europeans, our competitors and our partners, as you want them to say. So if I had Mr. Tsakalotos here, I'd tell him that in the race of endurance, my dear Mr. Tsakalote, of the twenty-eight, you're the last, perhaps because the red bag you carry has obstacles. What are these obstacles? In principle, the taxes and, basically, the reduction in the costs of the Greek State. Let's go to the second financial error, which I told you before, of the SYRIZA-ANEL coexistence. The primary surplus, instead of 2.2% of GDP, anticipated last year by this government and this Minister - Mrs Papanatziou, right? That's right. It's almost 4%. Can we just say it again? Half growth in 2017, twice the primary surplus. It is all wrong, that is, because it is not a primary surplus to say: 'It is a good primary surplus, as our economy has developed, we have paid what we were going to pay and we have left something aside'. No, no, no, no, It is not a surplus resulting from growth, from growth in the economy, from real jobs, but from overtaxation. So the high surplus to follow the rhetoric of my SYRIZA colleagues is eating growth. Right? That's right. I'm glad you agree, dear SYRIZA's colleague. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Wait a minute. Who are they missing from this equation? They are losing citizens, of course, who are forced to pay the highest doses of austerity that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government has implemented and exercised and enforced in that country. Who are the winners? No, Mr. Colleague, it's the lenders. The lenders, who will take most of the excess primary surplus for the repayment of the loans they have given us. So the primary surpluses, when not based on and not derived from economic growth, but from overtaxation, as the SYRIZA - ANEL government does, are the only ones serving creditors. They're the only ones who'll leave in the pocket full of plenty of paradoxes. But why is this mistake noted? I shall therefore tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that the answer given by the IMF economist, the Frenchman, Olivier Blanchard, to the first memorandum, which unfortunately also applies to the third memorandum of this government. There is a mistake with the financial multiplier. The government has underestimated the effects of the measures it has placed on the economy and thus imposes greater austerity, it follows the wrong recipe and prevents growth. Mr Juliarakis himself said - if I am not mistaken - that the government's financial staff do not want so high surpluses. But I will say that they are consciously doing so by taxing the employee, the honest and consistent taxpayer, the retired person, not to redistribute the sums to the poorest, but to the contrary. The financially weaker with the SYRIZA - ANEL policy are constantly behind the wall, because we all know that indirect taxes, increased VAT, increased taxes on fuel, on food, on basic consumer goods are affecting our poorest citizens. I will say that there is an explanation for the mistake of the multiplier, the government's mistake. It was given by the Head of the Parliament's Budget Office, Mr Panagiotis Liargovas, who will withdraw from his post, I hope not for his reports on the progress and risks of the economy. So he told us, on the basis of his reports, that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government has based the 90% financial adjustment on the increase in revenue and 10% on the reduction in expenditure. The same mistake was made by the Government of Giorgos Papandreou with the first memorandum, but you have broken every record of tax burden, which are those burdens, which I told you, which Euclid Tsakalotos has in the red bag. But we had some other bad policies, I'd say. Last year the Minister from this same budgetary step said that the second assessment should be quickly closed so that the country could join the European Central Bank's Quantitative Relaxation programme. In this way Greece would substantially get the approval of Draghi for cheap money, i.e. go out on the markets with better conditions and lower interest rates. So then Mr Tsipras assured us that he will not take any new measures. We all know her all the time. And first of all, the 153 MPs SYRIZA - ANEL who voted last May, ladies and gentlemen, the new measures, namely that all pensions will be reduced up to 18% from New Year's 2019 and you will also increase taxation for those employees - and not just - who are paid EUR 500 a month, in fact, by dismantling tax. These are your projects, of the 153 Members of SYRIZA - ANEL: pension cut, tax reduction. And here's the opportunity to ask you, ladies and gentlemen: what about the countermeasures? Do you remember the countermeasures or forget them? So please tell me what will happen on 1st January 2018? How many days? In two and a half weeks the VAT is increased to thirty two islands of the country, including the North Aegean, Cyclades, Dodecanese. So tell me, what countermeasures will be? Didn't you say that for each measure to be taken, for each euro measure, you will give a euro countermeasure? So tell me: In twenty days it increases the cost of life, of entrepreneurship, you make life unfit for tax in the thirty two extreme islands, increasing VAT. What are the countermeasures? Say it to me. Be careful, let us not hear the generalities that in the Public Investment Programme we will have some programmes running. We know these things, we've seen them, and we've heard them a lot of times. During the financial year many public investment projects disappear. Let's go to the issue of the second assessment I mentioned before. The second evaluation was closed in June. The money was disbursed in the autumn and last week we heard the Prime Minister blocking the target for quantitative relaxation, for the notorious QE. Mr. Tsipras said: "We don't need the QE. We had overestimated his importance for getting out on the markets." And can I tell you what Mr. Tsipras told us? What's not enough of the fox makes them hangers. Because the other southern countries are not foolish. Since 2015 they have been making use of quantitative relaxation. What does that mean? That they took loans, took money at zero interest rates, secured the surge in market pressure, and now, under the protection of the European Central Bank, bond issues are being made cheap. What did Greece do in 2015, 2016, 2017, when other Europeans borrow at zero interest rates via QE? He was holding an umbrella. It rained billions, cheap money, banking, but Greece also wore waterproof, held an umbrella. I would like an answer from the honourable ministers on whether or not our inclusion in quantitative relaxation is a national objective or not. Is it or not? Mr. Chakalotos told us it was a national target. Mr. Tsipras told us the world wasn't lost. That reminded me a little of what the Prime Minister for Schengen said. He said, "What if they get us out of Schengen, what happened?" That's what happened. You see what's going on. And I am coming to this year's budget. The same mistakes. The budgetary policy is based on taxes and keeps government expenditures high. So you say with the budget we are discussing, that the country will come out of the memos in August 2018. I've told you before from this one. Unfortunately, the country does not come out of the memos in August 2018. Creditors will emerge from the memorandum in 2018, August 2018. The lenders are the ones who will be relieved of their obligation to lend us at 1% interest rate. Who? The loan sharks, as you have told them, are the partners - I do not know how - the loan sharks who drink our blood and lend us 1% when they borrow higher loans in their own countries. How long will this mess go when we go to the markets? I'm sorry, how much is this hair gonna go? Because of a lack of species, I'm not used to it. It's going to be at least four times over our lending to the markets. So that's what Europe's loan sharks are about to forget. Now pensions, ladies and gentlemen, and after August 2018 will continue to fall, unfortunately. I told you before. Taxes will be detonated by cutting duty. And the economy once again will remain in a suffocating context with the surplus now reaching 3.5% and staying there until 2022. How when in 2017 did you not achieve anything you said to us, you tell us you will achieve it in 2018? It's a good wonder. But the danger is one. The danger is the trap of austerity that several economists have brought to the surface as a new term. Because increased taxation discourages growth, alters the incentives of people who are active, increases tax evasion, drives out dynamic businesses and dynamics from the country. I would therefore call on you, instead of telling us that we will not have what to do with the investments that are coming, to read the statistics on the development of the third quarter, which shows that investment in the country has fallen by 8.5%. Before looking for solutions to where you're going to put all the investors in a row waiting to come, they're supposed to invest in Greece, look at the door and the windows from which they're leaving. And, of course, they leave because of the conditions I described you. And many times when I say "you have to cut the spending on public spending", some of my colleagues have said "And where are we going to get the money? Would you like to close the schools?" Or as I heard the majority rapporteur, 'Do you want us to close the hospitals'? Someone needs to inform you - and if you don't know it, get into the recent study of the University of Athens Medical School, dear competent minister - that families each year pay more than their care, not to say about the medical and foreign languages that each family pays. It's a rock. In order to save costs, can I tell you what to do, ladies and gentlemen? I'm good at telling you. Do it like Mr. Bakaimis. Mr. Byron Bakaimi do you know him? I'll tell you who he is. He is an electric engineer with postgraduate degrees in Informatics and Business Administration, who left his career in the multinationals in 2010 and came to the Greek State to work. He took over Head of the Technical Service of the Grevena Hospital, a humble post from which he performed miracles. Here's what this man did. First of all, he went and inspected all the facilities, recorded and immediately thereafter made all the settings in the heating, air conditioning, water and PPC. And you know what he's done? It has all succeeded in working 'roots' and - look - within four years it has managed to reduce the water consumption of the hospital by 70%, electricity by 35% and oil by 50%, saving almost a million euros. And all technical interventions - you will know, I imagine - which he designed and implemented did not cost more than EUR 10 000. Now Byron Bakaimi claims the “Energy Globe” International Award, because, among other things, beyond the savings of money, the energy footprint of the Grevena Hospital has been greatly reduced. That's very important. It is therefore up to the Energy Globe Prize. I hope he gets it. It will also be an honor for him as a person for the Greek state, because he managed to do the true reform with all the tools he had, with design and perseverance. This is how you win the championship and the development and reduction of public spending, ladies and gentlemen. So you don't last in Europe. Because the country deserves not to be the last of the twenty-eight of Europe. She deserves it, and she has to be first. I am tired of listening to the world saying to me: 'Is it possible to be the 'chilet' of the fillet' in this country and being constantly in the 'game'? Oh, no. We need to get her out of the gala at last, following the bright examples of the Byron Bakaimi type. Ladies and gentlemen, because the concept of reform has been compromised, reform is what your simple logic says that you need to do to get to a better stage, achieve something better, broader, not just for yourself, but for society around you. I conclude by saying that the Concert Hall is currently awarded the prizes from the Greek Academy of Marketing, entitled "Made in Greece", to small businessmen, medium-sized and larger, for being forged, exporting, the name of Greece abroad with quality products and services. So I would say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that only with this kind of "open" mind, cosmopolitan - after all, we Greeks have always been cosmopolitan - with such a clear look, we can go out on the "light". And I hope you realize that, of course, we will vote against your budget. I'll see you at the rest of the meetings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u94	Thank you too, Mr. Amyras. After completing the list of general rapporteurs, we enter the list of special rapporteurs, with Mr Mardas from SYRIZA. Mr Marda, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u95	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the thematic unity that I am going to develop relates to the international developments and to the developments in the macroeconomic sizes of the Greek economy. The world economy in 2018 will grow by 3.7%, Eurozone by 1.9%, the United States of America by 2.3%, developing countries by 4.9% and, of course, India and China will have an increase in GDP of more than 6%. As far as the Greek economy is concerned, the forecast for the increase in total production, as given through the Gross National Product, will be of 2.5%, private consumption of 1.2%, investment of 11.4% - in the medium-term programme was 10.8% - exports of 4.6%, imports of 3.8% and reduction of unemployment, where the estimates show that 20.2% will reach 20.2%. I would like to note this. When we come to the committees and discuss various issues and some corrections are made to some mistakes or inaccuracies - I will not use the term lies, because it is a term that does not fit into issues relating to economic analysis - it is good that these inaccuracies do not come to Parliament. I come to my dear colleague, Mr. Kutsuko. He said that in 2016 we had a 2% reduction in GDP. We told the committees that it is not 2%, it is 0,2%.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u96	That's what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u97	No, you said two percent again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u98	Writing wrong. I said 0.2%.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u99	Another 0.2% and another 2%. There's a difference of billions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u100	We're not going to ruin it now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u101	I come to the honourable Member, Mr Amyras, who, like many colleagues, says that the surplus product is a product of overtaxation. Let us sit down some time and see what is the product of overtaxation and what is the product of tax evasion and GDP growth? In any case, when GDP rises, even by 1%, this leaves more taxes, without an increase in tax rates. If we accept the approach of the Governor of the Bank of Greece - which is the Bank of Greece - which says that because of the plastic money we had an increase in VAT of 900 million, from what I remember, if I also accept - for example, I am not going to mention that, because I do not have the time - the position that from the voluntary statement of income we have 280 million liquids, which we have to sit down and see what results...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u102	Ten percent, isn't it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u103	It's 400 million, with 280 million being paid right now. Let us sit down and see the product of this effect and what is from overtax, which is not unprecedented. The current indirect taxes, as a percentage of total taxes, are about the same as 2010-2011. So, it's not unprecedented. Let's see what's due to one, what's due to the other, so we can get some results. I come to some other issues relating to the real developments in the Greek economy. The improvement of the economic climate is not questioned. The Greek economy was upgraded, according to the forecasts of Fitch, Moody's and Standard and Poor's. I do not think that the exit from the excessive deficit procedure that took place in September 2017 is also questioned. And we have something particularly important. Of course, the institutions have been convinced that the mixture of economic policy had to change and that is very important. It will be a good thing that the European Court of Auditors' report, which gives its pages, in a particularly glaring manner, show that the two memorandums have failed, the policies have failed. The European Commission wonders why in 2012 the Greek economy was derailed while some other things were anticipated. All these questions, however, show, and it is well written, that the mixture of economic policy that was being followed was not what it should have been. So we, universities, businessmen, everyone - and do not move your hand, Mr Kegeroglu - and we said that the mixture of economic policy is not what the Court of Auditors, the fifth institution of the European Union, should now come to confirm and confirm, in substance, the criticisms we have made. And let's see how we got there, if you'd like, to the success story. It is not good to talk about the past and we want to avoid it, but when the Civic Opposition or Opposition is mentioned in the past, it is reasonable to say that we need to respond and correct some mistakes that are made. We also said to the committee that the New Democracy and the PASOK should decide what this far-reaching difference between 2014 and 2018 is, between the actual figures in the current and 2014 forecasts. Some say 31 billion and others say 19 billion. Decide, get in touch so we can figure out what's going on. And I come to a myth, which we told the committees as well, and I think that any position has been broken down that in 2018 we would have EUR 216 billion. Mr. Koutsoukos corrected, improved his phrase by speaking of expectations. New Democracy uses indefinite time for a future event, which was foreseen in 2014. We have a difference and we see that there is a difference. You're saying we'd have a terrible GDP if we went on. As a result of some forecasts, which were made in April 2014. These forecasts were based on 2014, 2015, 2016 and 2017 data. When data are derailed, it is reasonable that the results of 2018 cannot be, even if you were government, really. That's basically what we can't do here, and we can't do statistical and economic lessons. What's the derailment? We shall see again the Court of Auditors report. In 2014 we had the success story. What did the European Commission expect at the time to increase GDP, as is the case with the Court of Auditors? Increasing the order of 2.5%. What was the real result? It was a 0.7% GDP increase. What was the dynamic developed in the investment area at that time as a forecast? It was 10.3% for 2014, raise. What was the real result? Reduction of 2.8%, thirteen differentials. These thirteen differentials would give me a result of 216 billion in 2018? Tell me what this method is, anyway, to teach it to our students. I'll go down. For exports, fortunately, the deviation is not great. On imports an increase estimate of 2.4% for 2014 and a real event of an increase of 7.7%. Do you know what import growth means about 5%? It means some billions left abroad. Primary surplus 1/3 of forecast. So we have this derailment of the first data in the first year, which leads to the 2018 forecast, and this derailment would give me EUR 216 billion, even if you were government? One will tell me: "But it was SYRIZA, who was calling for elections, and that led to a diversion." And in 2013 was SYRIZA and we had diversions? I would suggest that you see Annex 6 here in this report. It gives to a very nice table all the discrepancies that took place in 2014, 2013, 2012, discrepancies over the Greek economy. Therefore, this myth, ladies and gentlemen, to stop the amount lost, or the 'expected' - very correct expression - but, Mr Kutsuko, when you bring some data, you will bring the data here at the nearest time of anticipation. The nearest forecast time is given by the mid-term that was April 2014 and you will not bring assessments of Generis of 2014, because it is reasonable that these estimates may have some much larger deviation, as they have. In closing the presentation, I wanted to say the following as to the exit from the memoranda: that there will be an exit from the memoranda, there will be an exit from the memoranda. Of course, we should not ignore the mechanism of supervising the 1992 Treaty, the 1997 Stability Pact, its 2005 Review, the six-mile package and the two-mile package, the later, which create a framework of supervision for all the Member States of the euro area. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Finally, although - I repeat - I do not want to talk about the past, but when you bring us some elements - and I close - we have to make a reference and break down some of your positions - at the bottom - that is also the democratic dialogue, which is developing in a Parliament - additional evidence of uncertainty 2014 and 2015, even though you were government, is first Hardouvelis email, which proposed some measures over a billion, around 900 million. Attention, gentlemen: When this report says that 60 billion euros had to be found to repay our expenditure, our debts, and the 4.4, which you found was not sufficient, the measures of Hardouvel's mail - and because you like to refer to strangers and suggest what the various strangers say - Mr Tomsen called them 'Mickey Maus measures'. Mr Tomsen did not need to come out and tell us 'Mickey Mouse measures'. It is reasonable that when we have 13 billion to pay back immediately in 2015, one billion cannot fill this gap. Of course, there were other elements of uncertainty that reasonably affected in 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018 and reasonably overturned all those predictions, which you did and to which it is good to stop mentioning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr Marda. I would ask Mr Bukkoro, a special rapporteur from the New Democracy, to come to Step for twelve minutes. Mr. Buquoir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u105	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems to be trivialising the evil today, as our people say. Third budget of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL, fourth financial year. I will make an effort to agree with the special rapporteur of the Government, Mr Marda, who has invoked a number of statistical data and has spoken of forecasts which have been absent from reality or are absent from real time. He used many statistics. I would like to remind the special rapporteur of the government that a great parliamentary man, the late Thanasis Kanellepoulou, was saying the saying - if my memory doesn't cheat on me, that was - that the statistics - and no sexist hint, except historical and parliamentary, are my reference - is like the nice, well-being that is willing to do to you the favors, as long as you ask in the right way. Invoke any evidence that suits you, gentlemen of the government, and invoke them in a completely fragmentary way. The basic size of an economy and a budget, the most important of all, showing the picture, which shows the course, can only be growth rates. And here, comparisons are catalytic. The previous government, the government with Prime Minister Antonis Samaras, took the Greek economy to run at a recession rate of 6.7% and delivered it in 2014 at a growth rate of 0.7%, having been on a huge path. The current government, whose life is already around three years, while the previous government barely exceeded two and a half years of governmental life, is fighting to catch 1.4% this year, with a recession in both 2016 and 2015. These elements give the general picture and can lead us to general conclusions. To invoke some elements of each of us now, to bruise numbers or if you want us to do a number management and mock people, there is nothing in the public debate. Overtaxation and development failure are the features of all the SYRIZA - ANEL government budgets. Basically this policy deepens the crisis, immobilizes the economy, captures the creative forces of the country. Exterminate the middle class and rapidly increase the newly incapacitated. That's what you're doing. It is no exaggeration that the claim made by many colleagues in this House that you did not achieve almost any basic objective in the implementation of the 2017 budget. Unemployment, poverty, lasting decline in income and the quality of the level of life of the citizens. That is what SYRIZA - ANEL policy brings. But the government does not seem to understand, ladies and gentlemen, the real situation in the economy and society. We have reached the committees to claim that there is no overtax in Greece. He even presented relevant tables, saying that tax revenues in the country are only just above the average tax revenue of the rest of European countries. But this is half the truth and half the truth is usually a great lie. Because the reports of EUROSTAT and the European Commission came out the next day and they literally demolished the office claims of the relevant Minister. Is it possible to say that tax revenues are a little above the European average? What society are we talking about? We are talking about a society where the average annual income available barely covers 67% of European income. That is to say, we achieve European objectives on tax revenue, when income only covers 2/3 of European income. That's the reality. That is why all international organizations are showing us as champions of over-taxation. He also forgot to tell us that the reduction in GDP is statistically correcting the rate of tax revenue as a proportion of GDP and many other things that I could say. And since there is no overtaxation, as the Minister responsible said, why have the Greek taxpayers in the last two years been unable to pay their debts to the public and the funds, having given rise to the delays, if the tax which the government imposes on Greece were reasonable? Half truths, big lies. That's what you're doing. But all this is not necessary, ladies and gentlemen, to prove that the ministers of government are tax-free. This year, in 2017, three times public, Government ministers promised the immediate abolition of the tax on wine. However, this is not provided for in the 2018 budget. We are still mocking Greek taxpayers and Greek producers. So you did not catch any year of growth rates, neither in 2017 nor in 2016 nor in 2015. You plan to develop 2.5% for 2018. The reliability of your previous estimates shows the reliability of your next estimates for the 2018 budget. Didn't you get the growth rate, did you not catch the target of investment, even half of it, did you not even get the target of private consumption and you make the economy look good? The 2018 budget in an exhaustive taxation environment, ladies and gentlemen, imposes new taxes of 2 billion. I'll only make a few special reports. Elimination of 10% on income tax for medical examinations in 2017. They will be two million citizens damaged by this measure. You reduce the heating oil allowance by 50%. Can I honestly ask you something, ladies and gentlemen? Do the protagonists or the weak who like to present themselves as protagonists receive the benefits of heating oil? Gentlemen of the Government, I would simply remind you that in 2014 the government had reduced the excise duty on heating oil and had extended the criteria for granting the allowance. Completely vice versa, you move. Do you think the heating cost, especially in mountain and disadvantaged areas, is low? Do businessmen, industrialists and shipowners receive it and we do not know it? Also abolish the 1.5% reduction from the retention of tax on employees and retired persons. You obviously considered them privileged and said to remove them another 68 million for next year. From the new EKRD's 'towel', which leads to its effective abolition, you will be deprived of forty thousand micro-retired people, who are added to the remaining, a hundred thirty-five thousand, micro-retired, 234 million euros. For farmers, you have been particularly'milks'. Three years of government SYRIZA - ANEL, six tax burdens for the rural world. More specifically, for the first time in 2015, by decision of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, agricultural aid and subsidies are taxed at 22% and 45%. You have more than doubled the farmers' insurance contributions, you have abolished the refund of the excise duty on oil for agricultural use, you have introduced a solidarity contribution from 2.2% to 10%, and you have made a 100% advance payment in the agricultural world. Three years, six meters! You are setting up the rural world literally at six meters! Free professionals, of course, are the government's favorite goal. How else can we explain the new increase in insurance contributions for 2018 at the same time as the adopted pension reduction measures in 2019 and the reduction in tax in 2020, which you are now discussing to bring forward from 1-1-2019. Enforcement of a residence tax on hotels from 0.5 to 4 euros overnight. Do you know, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that Greek tourist enterprises have the highest rates of taxation compared to all the competing Mediterranean countries? So if we do so against the strategic advantages of our economy, will we ever see a precedent? It's so simple! In the rented room you put 0.5 or 1 or 1,5 euros on the nightclub and 4 euros? Also, your commitments to the islanders were lost by the meltings of the Aegean Sea. Increase in VAT rates in thirty two islands of the northern Aegean and the Dodecanese. Of course, all the islands had precedents. You put in my place in Alonissos, which has a season of two and a half months, 24% VAT, and you aspire this season to be three and four and five months? How's that gonna happen? The next country has 10% VAT and smaller tax rates. The government is in favour of surpluses and dividends. These are surpluses that are the result of tax fraud and the pogrom foreclosure you have unleashed against the citizens. Are you satisfied that you will every day open the knob of the weakest citizens, even for minimal debts, without any possibility of defence and regulation? A million accounts were hit by seizures. Another seven hundred thousands of citizens are at risk. [[The President-in-Office of the Council, Mr DIMITRIOS KAMMEINOS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] You're making six thousand bank accounts every day. You've broken down every record. The results of your policy are measurable. Citizens owe the public and the insurance funds a total of EUR 130 billion. The outstanding debts are increased by 50% compared to 2014. A further EUR 45 billion has been added in just three years. Of course you don't reduce the debt. You are raising it for 2018 by EUR 14 billion. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In two minutes I'll be done, Mr. President. The government is bragging about dealing with the scourge of unemployment, but with flexible forms of employment. The figures I tell you are from the "ERGANI" of the first quarter of 2017: Rubber employment 54.39%. You are the government that creates the 'three and sixty' generation of 360 euros. That's what you're doing! You are so fond of the poor and the low - paid and the underpaid who are rapidly increasing them. "You want" the numbers otherwise, I say this for the second time, you are trying to manage them. You cried in the streets "Half work, half life" and now you do half the job or 1/4, compared to other times. So I'd say an example. You were celebrating for the dividend. A four-member family, which meets the requirements of the dividend, will receive 520 euros. From the tax reduction it will lose 650 euros and about 600 euros from reducing the benefit for heating oil. Only two measures of the government will this four-member family be called upon to pay about 1,400 euros. So, what are you doing? Do you give them 500 euros and ask them back 1,300 euros and 1,400 euros? But there is a solution, ladies and gentlemen. And the only solution is to take the initiative of causing political developments. Greece loses opportunities. The country is wasting time. Our young people are losing their future. If you continue and insist on maintaining power, you will be written in black letters on the pages of history.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u106	My dear colleague, I would ask you to close, with respect for the rest, because we will not have time to do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u107	I'm done, Mr. President. In any case, I would like to tell you this. Since you claim that the economy is going well and that you have surpluses, you have put yourself in the crisis of the Greek people. Three years you are ruling, more than any other government in the time of the crisis. Let's go to the Greek people and count your election surpluses there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u108	Thank you very much. I would ask that Mr Georgios Arvanitides, Member of the Democratic Partnership, come to Stepma. Ladies and gentlemen, let us try to keep track of the times, because they are another eleven colleagues. Do the deed: eleven for fourteen. It'll take us the next day. Thank you. You have the floor for twelve minutes, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u109	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there are two reasons why we have new objectives in our lives. The first is because we did the previous ones and we are ready for the next step, and the second is because something went wrong and we need a new plan. I am very sorry to say this, but, nine out of ten times, you in the government are in the second category. The country needs to constantly change its objectives, because you are always going under the aspirations that you yourself have created. The citizens are a little concerned if you are delusional or if you are inadequate. The big thing is that we cannot plan our lives, we cannot take the next step, neither as a country nor as a citizen, because today you are telling us so tomorrow otherwise. You said you were going to bring growth and we finally ate EUR 17.5 billion new measures on the back. You said that our homes would not be in danger, and today we are still afraid of our first residence. You said you would settle the red loans of four hundred thousand businesses and so far it has just finished a case. You said that you would build a labour market with respect for workers' rights, and today you are limiting the right to strike. You said that the private sector workers would live with the dignity of EUR 750 and today most jobs you open up leave 300 euros a month. You said that the public property belongs to the sovereign Greek people and the supreme on your days we do not have time to do so. You said that it was a good evaluation that was late to close, because the government is negotiating, and you are only celebrating today for an evaluation that was closed before it could even be opened. You said a lot of the debt would be written off. You said the PSI that cut 120 billion euros was nothing, it was cursed, and today we beg to take extensions to the instalments of loans we have in front of us and recently, oh of the miracle, you discovered the up-to-date swaps. Impressive! You also said that you are the "first time on the left", a left, of course, clamped with Mr. Kammenos, but at the same time he also loves the policies of Andreas Papandreou. That's a good joke, ladies and gentlemen. Unfortunately, however, the country has huge problems and we cannot laugh. You are able to deal with anything other than citizens' problems. For each of you failures, for every battle that has either been lost or, unfortunately, never been given, you are ready to pull a new rabbit out of the hat. We're telling you that we're waiting for solutions and you're answering that the problems are very big. We tell you that we lose one target behind another and tell us that there are scandals and corruption in the country. We are telling you that there is no development plan and you are telling us that you have a good intention. You have development conferences all over the country, without the most of you in this government knowing what production will mean, what entrepreneurship, what it's like to start something from scratch and to succeed. Mr. Tsakalotos and Mr. Juliarakis come in and fill in the budget codes to get the revenue and expenses of the year and tell us to applaud them because they achieve the goals, which if there were no overtaxation of everything, if not all the public and private property in the hammer, we would see them with the chili. You are constantly burning unbelievable resources, and you are getting a development unit, without a plan, without priorities. Put our little money into luck and wait for growth as a natural phenomenon as a result. This, Minister, is gambling, is not economic policy. Your only criterion for drafting the budget is to give rise to the restrictive measures that you have agreed with lenders. It is useful and necessary to respect the agreements, Minister, that I am not saying what is urgently needed is for money to be redundant, for wealth to be produced, for sustainable development, for resources to come, for our obligations to be paid. You have received an economy without deficits and you continue to cut, because you cannot increase GDP. You can't raise the pie of the produced wealth. That is the truth of the primary surpluses you signed. This is the bitter glass we drink and we will continue to drink until 2022 if this government does not directly change, unless there is a serious renegotiation of the commitments you have made. They are commitments that will be disproved sooner or later, because there is no chance that you will respect them without completely kneeling the usual mortgages, without any further cutting off on the incomes of employees and pensioners. But is there a solution? Is there a solution that this government can propose? You probably found it and it's in the new account that we seem to be forgetting, a story that will make us forget the hope that didn't come, a story that will build the government's major failures for a while. So you're telling us that you're struggling to finish with the memorials in the summer that's coming. But what you are not telling us is when and how we will end with poverty. That's the real conversation. The memorandum is nothing but a loan contract on terms and conditions. However, the real debate you are avoiding is how we will rebuild a strong and multitude middle class. It concerns entrepreneurship and production, which for decades has been treated as a criminal offence. It concerns social mobility, mainly through public school and university. This summer, the only thing that really ends is the cheap loan of the ESM. But the obligations of the country remain. Pensions and salaries should be paid normally, whether you are borrowed expensively from the markets or from the ESM. The instalments for the public debt should be paid normally, whether the swap works and we avoid large repayments directly or not. The state budgets by 2022 will be drawn up with primary surpluses of at least 3.5%, whether we catch the growth targets or not. That is what you agreed, that is what you signed, and that is what you will be judged on. So if you want to speak the language of truth, tell the citizens who trusted you with their vote what the plan is to finish at last with poverty, misery, recession and borrowing. Tell which middle-class it has left and still has income and resources that the state will invest to support them. Tell businessmen what the productive model this year's budget supports, to know where it is worth and where not to turn their businesses. Tell our weak fellow citizens how, with your little money, they will ensure a good level of health and education benefits. Tell the young children, who are with one leg abroad, what is the best life you propose in the future and how we will achieve it. Tell the farmers if the money you give the Ministry of Rural Development will help bring the countryside back to life. Tell the new couples if you support them to have children, if there is a plan not to become a thirty-year old country. The budget, ladies and gentlemen, is not just numbered in boxes. We're not accountants in this Chamber. We are Members of Parliament who, by our vote, determine the future of our country. Each budget code hides from it a political decision. These decisions must be explained to us, Minister, and not tell us whether you have given us less or more of the previous ones. What we expect from you is to understand the plan that the budget serves. You're a minister. You're not an employee of the General Accounting Office. I now come to development, and I will put three crucial points to it, whether or not we can reach agreement in this Chamber. It's a question first. When there is no money, we are looking for investments that need small initial capital and have a high profit margin. We will not have a heavy industry in Greece directly, because we have neither the money nor the infrastructure. It's just things. But that does not mean that we cannot invest and become competitive. So it remains crucial that the Minister explains to us which productive sectors he has chosen to strengthen the government's financial staff in 2018, which measures he will take in this direction and what support he estimates that these GDP decisions will have on the labour market in the year ahead. These are the real measurable targets we need to set. Tell us just Greek, Minister, an example for each sector. Tell us, for example, that the GDP offered by a cruise in the country will rise from 0.3% to 0.4% because we took this decision, because we have these objectives and so we will achieve this increase. We are asking basic and simple questions and we want simple, clear answers if you want to have a debate on the substance. It's a second question. When there's no money, the most confident investment is knowledge. Knowledge is fortunately something that is not lost in disasters or wars or is at risk of bankruptcy. This knowledge can get you to life more forward, even if you didn't have enough chances and equipment at the beginning. So tell us, Minister, if the money you give the Ministry of Education will help in compiling knowledge with the labour market and production. Tell us, too, the branches of science to which your Government gives you priority in 2018 and aims for the coming years. That's a third question. When a business or shop does not go well, it finds smart ways to recover, mainly based on its comparative advantages. In our country we are well aware of the four main pillars of the economy: tourism, agrifood, shipping, construction and energy. So in order to recover the economy, we must join forces and create synergies between these sectors, see shipping along with tourism, see tourism along with farming, see everything with sustainable development, with energy saving, close to the main pillars of developing the other pillars of the economy, the sectors of the economy. Near tourism and other sectors computers will develop, not luck or from scratch or with dreams to transform the country into "Sicilyon Valley". We just need things to get us out of here. Just things and clear words, for citizens to know and especially young children, the new generation of our country, what to expect from their country and what to do. They have to put these back on to raise the country. These simple things cannot, unfortunately, be described or done either by you and, of course, by the Conservative Party of New Democracy. To stop the country being locked up, it needs a great change, first political correlations and then a way of government. And we at the Change Movement are fighting for it, and that's what we're working on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u110	Mr Arvanitides, thank you very much for keeping time. Please come to Stepma, the special rapporteur for the Golden Dawn, Evangelos Karakostas, will come. Mr. Karakosta, you have the floor for twelve minutes. I repeat, as I have done with the other speakers, that we should keep the time, with respect for the rest, so that they can speak as many speakers as possible tonight.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u111	Since the harsh tax-sparkling policy of the SYRIZA - ANEL government, which severely affects the poor people, is a reasoned fact, which cannot be called into question, is artificially cultivated by various circles, which extend to the entire spectrum of political life, an illusion, a deception, a fraud, that it is not the Left that governs today, it is not the one that poorens the Greek people, it is not that part of the public property. This myth will be crushed today by making a necessary historical regression to the events of the Bolsheviks, which, moreover, are constantly invoking the ministers, MPs and government officials. A century back, the prevalence of the Bolsheviks in the internal war with the Whites in Russia brings to the Russian people hunger and misery, as a result of his economic policy of Bolshevik. After the scary 1921 winter, Lenin announced to the brookers of Bolsheviks who took part in the 10th conference, the return to capitalism. The overwhelming defeat of the economic policy of Bolshevikism is presented to the Russian people as Lenin's New Economic Policy, "Novaya Egnatskaya Politika". This New Economic Policy provided the following incomprehensible for a communist state: To have the right of farmers to look after the land, to legalise domestic trade and to exchange goods, to introduce taxes, first in kind and later in money, to return to private control of companies employing less than twenty workers, to flat-rate work, with the track, and to rent factories from companies or individuals, as well as to attract foreign investors, to exploit the country's enormous wealthy production sources. Indicative of the commitment of the SYRIZA Government to Lenin's "Novaya Egnatisseskaya Politika" is what he wrote earlier on "Day" the current Director of the Maximos Press Office and former director of the brochure, comrade Karteros, who attempted to give his own answer to those who question Tsipras's disposition to sell Greece to the international capital or, more well-prepared politically, Tsipras's disposition to bring investments. In particular, Mr. Karterus says: “Why do inconsistencies not know that on dark Bolshevikism Lenin gave the foreign capital bright investment opportunities. Since then, all the red people have imitated him unresponsively.’ Of course, comrade Carter is absolutely right, because with Lenin's New Economic Policy the possibility of renting factories from companies, private individuals abroad, as well as exploiting the enormous wealthy sources of Russia, which was obviously made at the request of the international Bolsheviks, who naturally wanted their money back. In order for some not to attempt to characterize the above as funny, although the silence of the "bolsheviks" of Ethiopia is deaf and at the same time an indication of what they are referring to, we quote what they testify, not fascists or capitalists, but the Bolsheviks themselves. In her book "My disappointment in Russia" the United States communist and Jewish Emma Goldman states: "The Bolsheviks were inviting the international capital to invest in their country, whose natural wealth expects to be exploited, as Ciccerin assured the reputable capitalists." Lena Goldfields, who had no commercial spirit, was responsible for attracting the international capitalists - investors and signing the contracts with the state, was designated as Lena Goldfields, who was in no way deprived of their origin as well as Emma Goldman. And as the communist and Jewish Victor Kimbalcic, known as the alias Victor Serge, in his book "Memories of a Revolutionary" tone in Russia's sellout in international seismic capital, said Lenin himself, who said attributes: "We sell everything except vodka and images." So let the naive "thinkings" and especially the evil left-wings of the left leave the nonsense of the "Tsipras follows right-wing politics". It follows literally the policy of Lenin, Stalin and Chechserin, giving land and water to the international loan sharks. And we come to today's reality, which is impossible to deal with, disregarding or ignoring the past and its teachings. Nearly a century later "Mama Soviet" has blown them. Eastern Europe's sovietal birds have disappeared. Western Europe's "soviets" have sought and found a new professional roof in liberal and social-democratic parties and, finally, Greece's "soviets" have been placed under the protection of international loan sharks and Americans and are now government. Indeed, because the government of Tsipras - Kammenos does not produce, in order to be able to sell, and because its religious images are completely indifferent, the slogan of Lenin has been adjusted and the communist government in Greece has shrinked it by half, turning it into "sales everything", which is the reference point of economic policy Tsipras - Kammenos, the Greek version of "Novaya Nicoska Politika". This should be known to the Greek people that it is the axis surrounding the new economic policy of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, and this very reality describes the 2018 budget that we are discussing. It is also a feature of the Government's absolute submission to creditors' positions that the officials of its financial staff are self-sufficiently invoking the latest report of the European Court of Auditors. And the Bolsheviks of SYRIZA - ANEL, because they defend the rights of the hard-tested Greeks against the demands of lenders? No, of course not. They are proud, on the contrary, that the report of the European Court of Auditors points out that the current government is more effective in implementing and implementing the creditors-agreed than the respective governments agreed and applied from 2010 until 2015. Of course, the American Communist Government has liked to accept and even advertise the congratulations of the capitalists and neoliberals of Europe - its bosses, that is, in vain - but awaits the congratulations and gratitude of the Greek people. The Bolsheviks of the government have stirred winds and rightly will reap storms, because the adopted lennistic slogan "sold everything" does not sound good in the ears of the Greeks. This is in direct conflict with the so far rhetoric of the so-called left rebels, who hysterically cry out how germans sell everything to strangers. And finally, the reality of the rug is confronted with the novels of left resistance to capital and loan sharks. SYRIZA - ANEL government sought and finally found a story to tell, seeking to re-defraud the Greeks. This story is called “Exodus of Greece from the memorials in August 2018”. And while artificially this fairy tale is cultivated, at the same time at EUR 2,73 billion, the American Communist Government appreciates the revenues from the militarisations of 2018, which include the sale of USOAP, USOTH, PPC, DESFA, ELPE, as a follow-up to the sale of fourteen regional airports for for forty and ten years, completed in 2017 against a price of EUR 1,234 billion. For the concession of the airports, I would remind you that the so-called left-wing and Kammenos resistance, when it was in the Anti-Population, reported a sale, while as a government and granted them and prepared to pay compensation to its Germans "FRAPORT", since the latter, as they have known, had recourse to justice, claim that the facilities received had various damages and therefore did not meet the price of the original agreement. Furthermore, the tender for the sale of 67% of the shares of the Port Authority of Thessaloniki is in its final phase, at the corresponding price being estimated to be paid in the first months of the new year. In addition, the final processes of granting the right to use, operate, manage and operate the Chios, Pylos, Thessaloniki and Alimos marinas, as well as those of the long-term concession of the right to operate, maintain and operate the Egnatia Road motorway and the three vertical highways are in progress. No conflict, therefore, with neither the thieves in prison nor natural social justice, with which the Left has been falsifying the Greeks for more than forty years. Just selling everything. In simple terms, the "Novaya Egnatisseska Politika" of the American Communist Government Tsipras - Kammenos, spreading poverty and misery along its way and multiplying the sufferings that have caused our country and our people by the former governments of New Democracy and PASOK. For this reason, and by ending up, the Left in Greece fell into the pit she dug out. It became a government by deceiving the Greeks to whom it was presented as a solution to the problems. However, it has proved in just three years of governance that it is part of the problem. This is now visible to the majority of the Greek people. Partners of SYRIZA and their companions - so that we do not forget you - ANEL, you are a prank of history, a disgraceful Soviet joke that ends. With you, Bolshevikism is ending and you are left with nothing but what is left to unite with your people in New Democracy and PASOK to close the way to nationalism that is coming. No matter what you do. The nationalists will pass. Golden Dawn is the future! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u112	Thank you very much. I would ask Mr Athanasios Vardalis to come to Stepma for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u113	One thing was forgotten by the previous speaker of the fascist Golden Dawn in unbelievable, twisted, and I would say on one side and his stupid position: the Soviet Union became the second force worldwide and managed to crush fascism and Hitler, which is the idol of the fascist killers of the Golden Dawn. So the JRC and the communists. The Red Flag at Reichstag is the nightmare of Mr. Caracosta and the fascists, who are all the lads of capital! Ladies and gentlemen, since the 2018 budget, which we are debating today, it seems clear that the attack on the populace will continue unrelenting over the next few years, not only in 2018. It is a well-designed and organised attack not only by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, but also by the Greek Industrial Association itself, the European Union and the International Monetary Fund. It is an attack that the other anti-population parties are smiling in their way, pushing for faster rhythms, more effective steps through another mixture and saying. Why is that going on? Why all of you, but all of you, are fully in agreement with the objectives set by this budget. It does not go away, for example, from your point of view that budgetary targets should not be taken into account. You fully agree with achieving sustainable economic growth and consolidation, as you say, a climate of confidence to bring about long-term investments. Not only do you agree, but this is your only concern day-night. These objectives, however, are also objectives of capital. That is what industrialists, bankers, shipowners all the time demand. Measures to achieve these objectives are also proposed by the imperialist organisations such as the European Union, the International Monetary Fund and the European Central Bank. All of you, but all of you are thinking about how the economy will recover, how they will recover the profits and come investors. But this is where the problem is for the workers and the people. To achieve these goals, people's families live in this barbarity that they live in. Why? Because growth is based on the profits of business groups, the investors you are looking for around the world with a strong anti-grassroots policy, never, but will never benefit the people. For example, what does the people have to gain from selling 40% of PPC's lignite plants? Not only will it win nothing, instead will it have to face a new rally of rises in electricity prices. On the other hand, companies will live their myth - electricity providers. For example, the Revithousa and Alexandroupolis terminals, the agreements you have recently made in America, may increase the share of Greek logistics in the international maritime transport of LNG. The seamen, however, and the people, what do they have to gain from them? You say to us 'yes, but the current government in relation to the previous ones does its best'. Yes, sir. We will not disagree with that assessment. Indeed, you do what you can, but for whom? Do everything you can for the profits of business groups and even, in this direction, do much more than the previous ones. Here, some examples. Go to America and deepen the country in the United States' murder plans in the wider region and you are even among the most legitimate governments in terms of NATO and the United States of America. Reiterate the question of abolishing the right to strike, which has had to do since the age of Article 4 of Arsenis. You're doing it like once - in quotes - 'like the old PASOK'. Proceed privatisation in all sectors of the economy: energy, port of Thessaloniki, Ennatia Street, water. You see, here capital investments will have certain customers and guaranteed profits. You, like the previous ones, are thinking of keeping this profitable path open for accumulated funds. Really, what happened that movement "Save Water" in Thessaloniki? What happened? Did they swallow their tongue? Another example. Devastation occurred in West Attica and other parts of the country. It has been tragically demonstrated that the need for anti-military works and you are not doing anything here, at least at the last minute, to add some funds to the budget, to strengthen the sums for anti-military protection - nothing at all - when the studies you have done say that 2 billion are needed to make flooding projects only in the West Attica, what you are giving for the F-16. Then it's your fault of climate change! But what kind of climate change is it that only hits poor people's districts? You say to us: 'We are staying inside and fighting, but what to do is a negative relationship'. Really, if the connections change and are shaped exactly as you want them, your goals for capitalist development, fiscal discipline, restructuring to attract investment will change or remain the same? In this case, would you not seek the geostrategic upgrading of our country's bourgeoisie in the wider region? We're asking you, would you have any other goals? Of course not. But it is precisely these objectives that require cheaper labour power and less insurance and other rights. All of this about negative correlations, difficulties and others, one thing they want to hide, that for you capitalism seems to be more or less eternal. What you are trying to do is make him better and sustainable, how you will mitigate his contradictions, his inequality. In fact, you are looking for a fair, indestructible capitalism, which cannot exist. Is there a negative correlation? For the people and the people, yes, there is. But the SYRIZA Government is part of this negative correlation. Do what you can, as you say. But you're struggling with colors, fighting with the capital jersey, against the popular layers. This negative correlation will change. But it will only change from the people themselves. And under no circumstances will it, of course, change to the tables of the European Union's negotiations. It will change through the struggle to repulse the current anti-popular attack, to claim the modern, present-day people's needs, through the conflict with its capital and power, the release from the European Union, NATO and all the imperialist organisations. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget serves these objectives through all the codes. People's families will bleed to catch the primary surpluses of 2018 and the years ahead. You are loading on the backs of the people another 900 million, by increasing direct and indirect taxes. You are reducing by about 700 million state funding for insurance funds, EEAY, hospitals. You are taxing, cutting costs to spare hot money for subsidies and tax exemptions for entrepreneurs. The Public Investment Programme will be directed to business groups of 6.75 billion. The amounts to be allocated directly to them amount to 3.65% of GDP. There are a number of funds within the budget that are indirectly doing the same work. For example, funds are planned to strengthen entrepreneurship, to attract productive private investment, to improve the competitiveness of the economy, to develop and promote exports. The list isn't over. All this for capital gains. We see that this is not what you are wrong with. You know where to cut from, where to get and to whom to give them. In conclusion, I would like to say the following? Firstly, this barbarity is not imposed on you by the negative correlations, but it is necessary for you to "clean" out on the markets to come out to the clearing of capitalist development. Secondly, it can typically end the memorandum next summer. You, however, retain all the measures of all three Memorandums that have dropped the tartaric wages, pensions and rights. And that's not all, you add other measures. Thirdly, in order to leave investment and ensure the profits of business groups must be made within a framework of consensus with society. That's what you say. This is something that was not in all cases, at least in the past, and which you can ensure better than others. That's what SYRIZA is for today. That is why they admire you and do not miss a chance to express it, even by giving you prizes and congratulations. Finally, we know that you are ready to take other measures, no matter what it takes to get these budget objectives. After all, you are committed to both 2019 and 2020 and there is the automatic cutter. This is therefore not a temporary adventure to be relieved in August. That is why a first response to this mockery of the government must be the mass involvement of all workers in the pan-Hellenic totalitarian strike on 14 December to break this climate of waiting and tolerance, to give a response to the eruption of the strike right. Ladies and gentlemen, three years now, within this rotten system, those who have sought the new and hopeful have been denied and disappointed. The real news for the people will be born through the reconstructing of the labour movement, through the social alliance of workers and other people's blocks, which will fight against monopolies, against capital and power, will be born through the empowerment of the Communist Party of Greece. Development to the benefit of the people can exist, but only against capital and its allies.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u114	Thank you very much, Mr Vardalis, for keeping time. I would ask that the Special Rapporteur of the Independent Greeks, Mr Konstantinos Katsikis, should come to Stepma for 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr President. Madam and Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government by voting on the 2018 state budget takes Greece out of the end of the memoranda that we inherited from New Democracy and the PASOK. Since we took over power so far, we have remained committed to our mission, we have managed to catch the budgetary targets for the third consecutive year and now, the country is about to enter a new period, in a period of recovery of economic equilibrium. The country, after a ferocious course of economic derailment on the rails of which the previous governments have thrown it, returns to a stability orbit and draws a course for a better future. The primary surplus is projected to be 3.8% of Gross National Product for 2018, which is not only compatible with the objectives of the Financial Adjustment Programme, but also provides an additional margin of security. The growth of the economy over the period 2017-2018 results in a decline in the end of this year, after six years, in the rate of unemployment below the psychological limit of 20%, from 21.7% last year, with a tendency to deviate further in 2018, reaching 18.4%. The SYRIZA - ANEL Government, unlike the governments of the past, disproves malicious predictions, noting that the revenue target is exceeded. An important factor in overrun 2017 was the best result of the expected insurance funds, both on the revenue side and on the expenditure side, as well as the sound management of the costs of the regular budget. For this year, we have managed, through the rationalisation of the insurance funds, to have a surplus of EUR 90 million from where the funds owed a billion. At the same time, there is a success in the fight against tax evasion, while under the voluntary income disclosure provision, 6.6 billion euros have been declared, 598 million euros have been paid back and 208,000 euros have already been entered into the funds. Unlike the macroeconomic and budgetary performance of the previous governments, which were constantly below the institution's projections, the present government, not only does it get its predetermined objectives, but it also goes beyond them. The significant excess of the objectives already achieved in the previous two years, but also the 2.4% surplus for the current year, compared with a target of 1.75% of GDP, have contributed to restoring international credibility to Greek public finances and have created the conditions for the country's return to international capital markets, while completion of the third assessment is within the timescales. Indicative of this development is the recent positive attitude of our partners in establishing the social dividend bill. This year, for the second consecutive year, we give the social dividend to the Greek citizens who need it most. In fact, both the level of this year's dividend and its social dispersion is greater than last year. According to the latest available information of “Electronic Social Security Governance S.A.”, more than a million percent of fifty-seven thousand social dividend applications have already been approved and while the submission process is still under way by paying the amount to the beneficiaries' accounts for next Friday 15 December. In any case, the distribution of the social dividend is expected to work multiplierly, stimulate demand and contribute to the regeneration of the market. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the overwhelming difference between our policy and the policy that you have adopted in the past. The social policy of the previous governments on the people's layers was tolerant and vague provision of holidays, holidays, in order to replace the loss of continuously reducing purchasing power. PASOK and New Democracy have mismanaged the country for decades and led citizens to the 2009 economic crisis, without any institutionalised protection measure. After guaranteeing the rescue of the economic elites, they were content with releasing their own government responsibilities and carrying the burden of exclusive responsibility to the people themselves, underscoring the future of the country. This is your work, ladies and gentlemen, of counter-population, this is the case that you left to Greek citizens. You have brought the memorials, you have committed the country, you have promised the future of the new generation and you are now coming to criticise. The previous PASOK-New Democracy government was committed to surpluses of up to 4.5%. Our government has made a fairer distribution of burdens. We have inherited a specific tax system, a suffocating economic and social situation, and we have undertaken the task of keeping your agreeds. According to the forecasts up to May 2018, the alignment of objective real estate prices with market prices will be voted on. By May 2018, the tax rates will also change and the tax base of HICP will be extended to ensure the objective of real estate tax revenues. The Government will review the application of the capital gains tax by April 2018, and if necessary, adopt legislation within May 2018. I hear from the Opposition on new taxes all the time, and that is what we must finally make it clear once and for all. It is not a question of new taxes, it is about what the agreement with the institutions provides. In any case, the government takes all those initiatives that will form a stable tax framework for entrepreneurs and will lead to a 29% reduction in the tax to 26% for 2019. It would therefore be advisable for the New Democracy to stop undermining the country's European effort, with its only incentive to return to power. I would like to refer to the increase in direct taxes. We have a spectacular improvement in VAT revenues, which is largely due to the increase in business and professional compliance and not to the increase in tax rates, as incorrectly or intentionally claiming a Democratisation. The increase in the use of payment cards improved the value added tax revenue by EUR 900 million. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you say that you will reduce the tax rates. But you do not answer the critical question: What costs will you cut off to do that? Would you cut wages? Would you cut pensions? Would you cut off the schools and hospitals? You're gonna fire civil servants? At the level now limited State expenditure, tax rates can only be limited by increasing tax compliance, only by reducing tax evasion, only by reducing tax evasion. The primary surplus of 2018 is to be based on a balanced increase in direct taxes by EUR 478 million and indirect taxes by EUR 473 million, leading to the strengthening of the State's funds, with additional tax revenues of EUR 951 million compared to this year, as well as a drastic cut in expenditure. The revenue from the privatisations for 2018 is expected to reach EUR 2,736 billion, when in 2017 it reached EUR 1,656 billion. A key role in achieving these goals is the ICTD, which undertakes to ensure within 2018 that new projects of around 2 billion euros are provided. In addition, an amount of EUR 613 million from privatisations that ran in 2017, as well as a further EUR 112 million from previous years' programmes, will be provided in 2018. The Public Investment Programme is planned to be set up at EUR 6,750 billion for 2018 of which 55%, i.e. EUR 3,712 billion, comes from Community funding. The most important finding confirmed by the budget is that the NSRF for 2007-2013 closed without loose ends for major projects and thus avoided the risk of a return of more than EUR 4 billion to the Community funds. For the NRP for the period 2014-2020, calls for programmes totalling EUR 12,8 billion have been made public and actions amounting to EUR 3,94 billion have been activated. Projects amounting to EUR 2.28 billion for measures to combat unemployment and support the social economy, as well as EUR 6.1 billion for supporting small farms, fisheries and training for the primary sector. Growth this year is 1.6%, while in 2018 it will rise to 2.5%. In addition, the 2017 surplus will be closed to 2,44%, despite a dividend of 1,4 billion euros. The forecasts for faster growth in 2018 are based on the increase in private consumption of 1.2%, the impressive increase in fixed capital investment by 11.4% from 6.1% this year and 1.6% last year, due to the more favourable investment environment on the basis of the programme's reforms implemented, as well as the anticipated increased demand. These are steps forward, which the present government has managed to go through. They were made through painful sacrifices by the Greek people, through social conflicts, through painful efforts to negotiate and resist. We continue and the result seems to be justified. The present government with methodicity, consistency and negotiating power has given its signs of writing, made claims, won the lately lost grievance of credibility and established strategic alliances so that Greece today enjoys greater confidence both at European and international level. I would like to remind you of the most positive shift in the market climate and the recent recognition both from the point of view of the United States and the International Monetary Fund of the need to ease the debt burden. In conclusion, I will say that Greece is on the way out of the long period of economic suffocation and social paralysis, and this 2018 budget confirms it. The country is finally out of date with individual economic indicators moving towards the most positive ones in August 2018. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u116	Thank you very much, Mr Katsiki. I would ask the Vice-President and Member of the Central Association, Mr Mario Georgiadis, to take the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u117	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it really has not yet been possible to dry the ink from the FEK of the so-called "social dividend" and the SYRIZA - ANEL government is coming with the 2018 budget to get it twice and three times those 720 million of the so-called surplus it will be distributed. And not only that, but those who managed through the clipping software to apply, saw their hopes to wings, since the discards reached the rate of 58%. I will submit in the minutes the HICP press release, which appears to have been approved only 42% of applications. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Now let's go to the state budget. The former colleagues know that it was particularly important to discuss the budget within the House, because it really presided over the intentions of the government in the exercise of social, fiscal, investment, tax policy and the comparison was made by code. But now all these things have been wings. It now only counts the percentage that the government has agreed on the primary surplus with the lenders. The rest of the funds are automatically adjusted, without any logic, without any study. So we see that for the third consecutive year the budget is the best weapon to accelerate the plundering of incomes and poor populations. Even the so-called 'bad lenders' - as you say - and Mr Siomple himself - are your expressions - have stopped at 3.5% for the primary surplus. But you have not been content with it. You wanted to launch it at 3.82% or more than 7 billion euros. You will now tell me: 'Why would the government want to have this EUR 500 million cava?' Obviously, because you want to have frozen funds within the budget codes to meet requests from SYRIZA officials, and that is why every three and a little bit you are voting here on a new independent authority, a new general secretariat with dozens or hundreds of appointments. Definitely the only qualification for these assignments to you or to your executives has it that those grandparents have once been rebellious. In addition to this, I read: "The persistent pursuit of higher objectives and the commitments of the country of primary surpluses obviously entails excessive austerity, negatively affecting the development and impact of the country's negotiating margins. That's not what we say. This is included in the relevant report of the State Budget Office in Parliament along with other interests, such as: ‘The continuation of austerity policies, i.e. reductions in public spending and increases in taxes, does not help economic activity and liquidity in the real economy, i.e. it is an improper factor in achieving high growth rates’. It is therefore almost unlikely that the government's ultra-eestimating scenario for 2.5% will be achieved when the OECD has declared our country a champion in taxation policy, with a record of thirty-five years even in the taxation of non-nationals. The most important, in my opinion, is shown on page 6 of the report, which in a special table shows that the government imposed an unnecessary austerity of EUR 7.5 billion for the three years 2016-2018. This outrageous amount is the difference between the surplus demanded by the lenders and the excess that you bring through overtaxation by the "proud" negotiation. I am tabling this report in the Minutes, although a number of colleagues have been mentioned. It's good to be at your disposal. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So the "good year" by the government will tell us that, with a deep hand in the pocket of those who do not have pensioners, householders, enslaved EUR 2.5 billion more than in 2017. The feature of this budget is increases in contributions, reductions in pensions and significant reductions in government funding for insurance, care and allowances. EUR 1.15 billion will still be lost from an increase in taxes and EUR 1.4 billion from expenditure cuts. It is therefore abrogated that CSR will be a hundred thousand low pensioners in 2018 with a pension of only EUR 585 and upwards, and there is provision for a definitive abolition for everyone since the end of 2019. The total of the cuts will be EUR 238 million. The tax deduction for one million taxpayers and a total of EUR 121 million for their medical and pharmaceutical costs is abolished. The heating allowance is reduced by 50%, resulting in another 47 million euros lost and even more thousands of households frozen in winter. The deduction of 1.5% withholding tax - EUR 68 million in total - for another one and a half million taxpayers with an income of over 8.636 euros per year, as well as the special scheme reduced by 30% VAT rate for thirty-two Aegean islands, effectively punishing their inhabitants at a total cost of EUR 85 million, saying a ironic thank you for what they have suffered over the last two and a half years. At the same time, there is also a need to increase contributions to the free professions. The government, of course, claims that despite the reductions in pensions and wages, for all the rest of the carpets for compensation has triggered a redistributive mechanism - as you baptise it - a social veil of supposedly high-level protection. But that's what you're lying about. For example, in health, the shortages of all kinds of materials in the public system force Greeks to seek resentment in the private sector, despite the lack of wages and pensions. And we don't say that either. It is the conclusion of a recent sectoral study, which shows that Greeks pay the second largest percentage to the European Union for private health expenditure, about 40% of the total. I'm tabling the relevant report in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Now we are going to combat unemployment, where the government's performance is almost low, since we are running on top 10 of the global ranking, showing as a success the virtual decline in unemployment due to four hours, vouches and the wages of 200 and 300 euros. Young, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, do not seek charity through vouchers, nor subsidized work through OAS. What young people are asking for is real opportunities for permanent employment with a view to it. I will submit to the minutes and the relevant communication from ELSTAT dated 23 November 2017. After recognising ELSTAT as the most valid source, read and read the information it announces. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Is the government doing better in protecting the first home? A negative answer here too, of course, since international funds are already ante portas, in order to get from banks values below EUR 140,000. As for the auctions, unfortunately, there is no brave negotiation here. You gave it all away. Spain's model provides, where you will advertise that only villas with swimming pools are in the hammer, you will make five, ten, so for communication reasons and from below in tens and hundreds will leave the homes of all citizens. And this is reflected in the conclusions we have: From 1-1-2018 every informal agreement you have with the banks will collapse, because there is nothing in writing. We're on. No care for pensioners as well. According to the Single Network of Pensioners, eight out of ten have arrived at the desperation stage, they cannot pay their medicines, going through a regime of demolition of human dignity. I put forward a statement in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But again, all the speculations you have to stop tax evasion do not have the slightest effect. These are, in short, some of the achievements of the Government for which you are taking place. It is a normal 'black Bible', as would friend Antonis Panoutsos. Apart from the misguided economy, however, slow death is threatening businesses as well. According to BSE in its special issue of 21 November, 2/3 of the country's enterprises are in a border area and 1/3 in serious danger. Once again a voice of oxen in the wilderness! And when the government, with almost intent, disappears the middle class, next is not to hear a word from other operators of business and social life who are struggling, not to talk about the NSRF 2014-2020 that is probably an unknown word for these people. For the government, unfortunately, the public sector will be well and slowly, more jobs will be created, so that the next fans can be taken care of. And here I remember the viral slogan that had come out "The Olympiacos and the Aigleo to win all the...". So the government's going well and all the other citizens... I'm afraid so. We are therefore moving towards the fourth assessment in the spring, where the eighty two of every kind of prerequisites precede us for the additional financial and social consequences. Months ago there was a whole brain wash on the part of the Government that a trial exit at a rate of 4.6% went very well when the rest of the eurozone borrowed me less than 1%. And I'm trying to understand, when he criminalizes the business, how can he go out and ask for a loan, since even the government's own officials react to any form of private investment? And I will bring for example the thousand-year-old Greek, where after years, decades, they have discovered that there is forest in the runway! Even Portugal, ladies and gentlemen, has recently borrowed at a rate of only 1,94%, while it has already managed not only to come out of the memoranda but also to reach a steady growth rate, to make early repayments and to limit unemployment to 8.6%. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of Mr. I Vice-President of Parliament is ringing.]] I want two more minutes, Mr President, and I will finish. Thank you for your tolerance. In fact, its government, in its own budget for 2018, has already foreseen tax exemptions by recognising what has been suffered all these years. No relationship, that is to say, with your own government, that you only have an exit for communication purposes. Ladies and gentlemen, for three years the government has been unable or unwilling to understand why the increase in taxes has led to a reduction in revenue. So I should like to enlighten you once again with the following passage from the report of the Parliamentary Budget Office: 'In particular, the very high tax rates at work, but also in capital and consumption, lead to significant distortions in the market, i.e. reduced incentives for labour, consumption and investment, but also to an increase in tax evasion, which in turn lead to a vicious cycle of reduced growth rates and hence State budget revenues'. After the adventure and the amateurs on the part of the government - to remind you of the Baroufakis period and the Venezuelan encryption, the unnecessary referendum, the capital controls, which cost us tens of millions of euros - we do not have the slightest confidence in the government and in any capacity that any executive can claim. For these reasons, we will be at the 'present' in principle, we will vote against the entire state budget for 2018 for all ministries and for all codes, but perhaps some minimum exceptions concerning defence and education. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. Georgiadis. The special rapporteur from Potami, Mr Spyridon Dannelis, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Europe is moving forward. Martin Schultz targeted the creation of the United States of Europe the day before 2025 and went several steps further, as the French President Macron has been discussing at every opportunity. Everything shows that 2018 will probably be an important year of change for the European vision, for further economic and political integration. It seems that European leaders are gradually aware that only the development of the Union can make it strong towards the new challenges but also the increased uncertainties of globalisation. Apart from political intentions, however, economic elements show the way. Some time ago, the European Commission revised its growth assessments in 2017, from 1.7% to 22.2%. It is also estimated that the Eurozone will continue to grow at more than 2% in 2018. Everything shows that the European economy is just in the middle of another development cycle, speeding up. Even the Italian and French economies, which have been marked by slow growth for years, show signs of improvement. The former Memorandum economies, those of Ireland, Portugal, Cyprus or Spain's permanently problematic are now developing very well. As for Ireland, the figures are now impressive. In the second quarter of 2017, its economy ran at an annual rate of 5.8%. Unfortunately, we are on the opposite side. Greece was the country with the lowest growth in Europe. The Greek economy has been stable, but this is much smaller than the Eurozone average. The budget we are discussing today, the last Memorandum of Understanding, if everything goes well - we wish it and hope it - shows the next day. I would say that in an environment of European economic excellence, our own performance is eloquently described by a 'good'. It seems that we have not yet collectively understood the causes of the Greek crisis. We believe that the deficits in competitiveness and innovation are the dominant ones. It is precisely these indicators that Greece remains in the last place among the European states. However, this characteristic of the Greek economy is not due to the crisis. There was before it and it has made a decisive contribution to the creation of the huge foreign debt, a debt which in turn led us to the crisis and to the recession and, in turn, to the memorandums that have aggravated a number of things. The last budget for the memorandum period, we think, should have foreseen the treatment of these problems too. Instead of that, we have again a static, tax-center, a budget for the Greek economy, a budget based on a constantly reduced tax base. The figures show that 19% of citizens are called upon to contribute 83% of taxes, and that in a Greece all shows that they are constantly poor. More than 1% or more than one in five Greeks, 21.2%, 2016 is below the poverty line, while one third of the population, 35.6%, faces social exclusion conditions. It is from such a tax base that surpluses arise, for which the government celebrates. But is this sustainable in the medium term? Is a hard austerity policy, which is based on increased taxation, the freezing of public investment and the cutting of costs sustainable? Is the unthinkable primary surpluses of 3.82% viable instead of the 3.5% institution required, for which, of course, the government is being affected? The limits between sincereness and cynicism are indiscriminate, such as in the ministerial assumption that overtaxation of the middle strata is a conscious choice, in order to further strengthen vulnerable social groups. This simple exercise of class policy, however, exhausts precisely those who produce it, exhaustes the last microma of the Greek economy, defying those who can reverse the current bleak climate, those who create jobs, those who can produce real national wealth and get us out of the vicious circle of recession, because redistribution of wealth can be done after you have ensured its production. At the same time, the state is developing into the worst strategic mispaid of the average Greek company and one of the two entrepreneurs is saying that they would offer more jobs if they were paid in time. Let's go back to the figures of this year's budget. I think that a word is the budget as a whole: 'over-optimism'. In 2018, GDP is projected to increase by 2.5%. And in 2017, GDP was projected to rise by 2.7%, but it was only close to 1.6%. There is also provision for an increase in investment by 11.4%, when the preliminary draft budget a month and a half ago spoke of 12.6%. Where is this over-optimistic approach based? In real elements and estimates or simply in desire, in a sympathy? The immediate future will show it. We read that there is a large negative deviation of 5.6% or 2.9 billion euros in 2017 revenues in relation to estimates of the recent medium-term 2018-2021. The figures are from May 2017. In other words, the revenues of 2018 will be reduced by around EUR 800 million. Here I think the problem is emerging embodied. We have an increase in tax rates and a reduction in revenues, while at the same time a rise in tax dues. This means that the taxable income has been reduced and the tax rate has reached the ceiling. First Greek paradox: And the taxes for each citizen are increasing and we have no financial effect. Obviously we have a wrong policy mix, as we have a wrong ratio between indirect and direct taxes, and let everyone know that indirect taxes are proportionate and the most unfair. This brings us to the second Greek paradox, which the government's class sensitivity falls so far out of its estimates of direct taxation that the ratio of direct indirect taxes has spread to the worst levels of recent years. In 2017, indirect taxes accounted for 15.1% of GDP, the highest of at least the last decade. At the same time, direct taxes fell to 11.4% in 2017, the lowest in 2014. In addition, the unemployment rate remains high. And this, as we have explained before, is abrupt of the suffocating tax and tax environment. Of course, you say that unemployment has fallen. How has it been reduced, however, when the ratio between full-time and flexible forms of work increased in favour of the second at a worrying rate in recent years? This is a clear prevalence of part time in the overall structure of employment. Moreover, long-term unemployment, which is an indication of the structural nature of total unemployment, does not seem to be eliminated. The rate of long-term unemployed on total unemployment shows growth in the first half of 2017. And all this is nothing but bad news about insurance, an insurance that is supposed to have been reformed in a sustainable way. And this leads us to the third Greek paradox: a rise in contributions, a reduction in pensions, but also a constant need for the state grant of the ECA, and we have already anticipated this since we discussed the Katrugalos Act. The cooking that seems to be making nine out of ten professionals reporting incomes under EUR 10,000 per year is indicative of failed insurance reform, as are, for example, the hundreds of ten thousand blocks that closed in nineteen months, reducing the number of these professionals in 1/3. Of course, we're guessing that these people, most of them, are still working, just a lot more of them doing it with black. You are also saying - and it goes without saying - that in order to achieve 2.5% growth for 2018, it is a key investment. But what environment? Investments need a hospitable environment and stability. And here it is proven, that the larger the investment is, the more hostile it is to deal with the authorities. Investments show this - this has been said - in Greek or Eldorado Gold or in various other cases. The deep state and sometimes its formation by the deep party, unfortunately, seems to be stronger in the government's political choices. In this context it is unrealistic to expect an increase in investment by 11.4%, when 2016 was only 1.6% and 2017 was 5.1%. Regarding the public debt, it is understandable that the downward revision of GDP compared with the 2017 budget projections resulted in an increase in public debt. Especially for this year, the debt will reach 179.8% of GDP. It will be higher by EUR 13.7 billion than this year. This implies that the lending of the country from the markets, after the end of the memorandum, in August 2018, may not be an easy case. Ladies and gentlemen, I come to the good news. It is a pity this time that the agreement with the institutions for the third evaluation was completed within a timeframe. This does not mean, however, that the end of the memorial is here. What ends in August 2018 is the cheap funding packages. Because our commitments and obligations, as a set approved by the creditor politicians, as well as the supervision of their compliance, will continue for several years, even we have known that and we know that. It is impossible to maintain a dysfunctional and counterproductive state. We must all realise that fiscal and social policy complement each other in the context of a dynamic competitive and extroverting economy. Tax policy must support the production of wealth, which, of course, will create jobs and fuel the funds of the state and the insurance system that we so need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr. Dannelly. Ladies and gentlemen, because there is the time available for fifty more minutes by 12 o'clock, if we keep the time, as I see them, we will reach Mr Besiropoulos. Let me inform you that Mr. Maniotis and Mrs. Arabatzi will speak tomorrow. The floor is given by the Independent MEP, Mr. Harris Theocharis for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr President. The third budget submitted by the SYRIZA - ANEL government has a special feature. In the first eight months of its implementation it will be a Memorandum. The remaining four will be its first post-memorandum period for Greece. When we say 'the post-mortem period', we mean that a period of different supervision begins, because during this period our country must, firstly, prove that it can fulfil its obligations with own resources and, secondly, that it can manage with effective policies the new reality. I see you rejoice because we are on the markets and hope that the Europeans are bored and let us go. Did you explain, however, that exiting the markets means higher interest rates and therefore less money for the unemployed and the businessman? Did you realize the surveillance won't cease to exist, but will it be done in a different way? How will we be judged on the basis of rumors, indicators and news, as are the markets used to? How will you not be able to delay the prerequisites for 'hard' negotiation, as you did with the equation of objective values from the third in the fourth assessment? But the most important thing for everyone is that we don't have another chance. If we do not now draw up a plan for new jobs, if we do not now adopt development policies, if we do not now reshape the public sector, if we do not now stop charging the budget with recruitment and simulations, if we do not now support entrepreneurship, if we do not now take the responsibility for us, then in four to five years we will certainly ask for the help of the partners and then the door will be closed. I want to be clear. The responsibility for the possible failure lies with you and with the partners. If they are tired or bored with Greece's problems and freed from the memorandum without having the necessary supplies, then the humanitarian crisis will also be the result of their own decisions. That is why, if I were you, ladies and gentlemen, I would adopt a more conservative position rather than a celebration. The 2018 budget would say that it is forced maturity. He is less optimistic than last year - that is interesting - even though we are at the end of difficult memorial years, according to you. Last year you hoped for 2.7% growth. This year you're hoping for an increase of 2.5%, worse than last year. Since you won't catch the 1.6% you're writing us about coming this year, we all understand the reliability of your numbers. I shall avoid, ladies and gentlemen, the many numbers and indicators. I shall refer to what the figures tell us, the philosophy they serve, in your own philosophy, ladies and gentlemen of the conflict. You are telling us about the inequality of the Paradise Papers and you are claiming after all that something needs to be done to alleviate them. You talk to us about the many who need support from the social state. You are talking to us about the middle-class, which you have unjustly targeted it - but unwittingly - and now it must be supported. What are you serving? The answer is tough. Nothing. And this is another sign of your political dishonesty. What should a country's budget serve in crisis, such as our country today? You should clearly state your will to apply a policy of exiting the crisis faithfully. You're hiring. It should define the framework of a new production model. You rely on consumption by 89%. It should lay the foundations of a genuinely social state, which will heal the 'flammations' of a people devastated by overtaxation, unemployment, ruthless austerity. You're cutting off social costs. Ladies and gentlemen of the government coalition, the people voted for you because they believed in the pubic vision you presented to them. The people supported you because they believed that with today's bloody sacrifices they are buying for tomorrow's survival in terms of dignity, a social state for the elderly, a future for the next generation. He sacrificed jobs, businesses, dreams, personal goals, for the sake of the policies of accounting for the objectives you have imposed on him, promoting Greek honor for the sake of collective good. But now, with a view to exiting the memoranda, a pragmatic reward is awaiting. This people, our fellow citizens, all of us, are waiting for another treatment from the state. We demand to see the social person on the left, who had a banner in the election campaigns. We demand to see the fair growth that Mr Tsipras was evangelizing from the step of the Thessaloniki International Exhibition, just last September. We are demanding to see growth, investment, jobs, security, stability and not charity with election recruitment and a dividend to the detriment of real social benefits. Instead, you are bringing Parliament a budget that does not meet any of these requirements, while at the same time cutting social costs, deregulation of the social state. You continue to steal from the social funds, as you did from the dividend. When I proved this to you, from the Step forward, in my speech, you disproved me. A few days later, however, Mr. Costello confirmed me. In Greece of 2017, 21.2% of the population live in poverty and 35.6% in social exclusion. That is, over a third of our fellow citizens are trying to survive in conditions of lost dignity and ruined dreams. And you're reducing the total cost of insurance, care and social protection by 1.6 billion euros. And in this way, this expenditure becomes the main instrument of your own budget adjustment. You took the percentage of citizens living in conditions of social exclusion from 36% in 2014 and you reached it today at 35.6%. Here's your social sensitivity in practice! Here is the success of all these support programmes! Some numbers describe the collapse of the social state that you bring with this budget. The OAS programmes are drastically curtailed from 604 million in 2017 to 450 million in 2018. Pensions are reduced by 600 million. Preferential benefits of the Funds are reduced by 300 million. The Agency's sickness benefits are reduced by 160 million. The benefit of uninsured overtime from 80 million this year is reduced to 35 million in 2018. The costs of hospitals are reduced by 360 million. 260 million social cohesion expenditure is cut. It is limited to protecting the principal residence of overhead households at 50 million, from 100 million this year. At the same time, however, when the government brings profound cuts to the social budget, it plans policies that underpin customer management, as the 2018 budget is increasing the public wage budget by 440 million, staff salaries in the social budget by 75 million, fees in the ATTs by 70 million, while the wage bill increased by 50 million in 2017, compared to the same year's budget. In short, every poor, indebted, unemployed, young person needs to know that money for the social state that would support him, the government makes them payrolls, hires, simulations of relatives, friends and party officials. Ladies and gentlemen, liberalism has increased the speed of changes in our lives by stepping up insecurity. Social democracy accepted the domination of markets and lost its soul. The Right calls for border closures and a reduction in people's flows and goods in a desperate attempt to return to the good times. The left what's goin' on? So far it has only given birth to totalitarianism. Why would it be different now? Your authoritarian tendencies are obvious. One day we hear Mr. Erdogan tell us how to manipulate our justice, the previous day Mr. Paulakis swears, and the next day Mr. Contonis attacks her. Your solutions to inequality are to ban the second car and the second house, because you are extremists and extremists have never given any viable solutions. Ladies and gentlemen, the Centre has stopped solving the problems of the ordinary citizen, which is why we have reached this point. We are living in a transitional period during which extremes rise. Transitional because solutions and progress have always come from the Centre in the history of humanity. Gramsey, often invoked by the Prime Minister, talked about monster times, when the old world dies and the new one strives to be born. That's what we're living in the monster age. Who are the monsters? I think you know the answer very well within. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u122	Thank you very much Mr. Theocharis. My colleague, Mr Christos Beyalas, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I sincerely go to the Rapid Rapid Confusal by the last speaker, by my dear colleague, Mr Theochari, who scanned everything. So no one could figure out what after all? Right nothing. Liberal? I thought you were liberal, dear Harry, but I don't know how you got out of us. Neither to the right nor to the left nor to the center. Now where?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u124	Not even downtown.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u125	Apparently you've found the seventh road to development. Because the reading you've done in the budget - I'm sorry to talk to you in the first person, but I think we have a common element, the economy - and what you've been telling us, frankly, has really messed me up again. Until you told us the social state was destroyed. Obviously the increase in family allowances expenditure, which has a very nice provision, the increase in expenditure at all levels of the social state, beyond dividends and beyond last year, obviously you haven't seen them. However, ladies and gentlemen, in discussing the third budget of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, some questions have again been raised, since I am only two years in this Parliament. Can the budget be presented, questions asked by the opposition, answered by the government, asked questions, but all the answers with information are not taken into account from discussions in committee and in plenary to listen to the same reason? I really can't understand that. Because it is true that dialogue is taking place in here to make arguments for everyone, to ask questions to get the answers and to go further than that. I don't see that happening. That is, from the committee to the House, four days of the committee, and now that we have started in plenary, the recommendations were the same pattern. Whether evidence has been said or explained by the ministers or by MPs, they have not affected anyone. It is clear that this budget is the last Memorandum of Understanding. In any case, they say so, apart from the government officials and MPs and domestic people who have been engaged in the economy and all others who have had the commission of this country for eight years and all those who have imposed these Memorandums on us with your consent, gentlemen of the Opposition and the signatures in the previous two Memorandums. And you have nothing to say about it. There have been very few words from speakers here about what will happen after August 2018. Dollar for that thing. Even people like Mr. Diaselblum, whom you used to say, "Geebloom strong and weighty Sibble", now that he went out and said some things, such as that the first and second memorandum was made to save foreign banks, you did not say a word, you spoke of the island. Don't you want to place yourself there? Don't you have anything to say? Something, if you like, that we as SYRIZA then said "children, the Memorandum and the Memorandum are made for other purposes". You blamed us. But you're not saying anything about it. It is the last Memorandum of Understanding and this time again this government will have drawn up the first Memorandum of Understanding. Well, then you will say the same thing, but we will move forward. But it is a budget, which indeed requires a fight on the part of the government and the whole of society to be executed and implemented in the best way, because both previous budgets we executed as a government were completed with the best achievements. They achieved the goals, and that is why we saw the third assessment yesterday close very quickly. Why? Because trust has been restored. This is the key issue, which has existed for years in Greek economic life within the memoranda, that they did not believe that what we promised will be implemented. The budget - and everyone knows - has three objectives. It must be of a development nature, settle public finances and be redistributive. These three objectives are achieved by this budget. Clearly, they are achieved within this framework that we are living, within the tight committee, which ends with this budget. Public finances are being carried out in the same way as we must and we have the commitment of 3.5% surplus, which budgets 3.8, given that we have had the 2017 budget and that we have had the surplus to be paid over to 1.75, which we have had, over-recitals that have given us the right to give a dividend of 1.4 billion euros. The second objective is developmental. Clearly it is developmental, because it places growth of 2.5% and is growth, which is also firmly based on the changes that have been made and also on the fact that it has a stable budgetary function. It is redistributive - I think this is sunnyer - as well as the issues it gives the social state, having already guaranteed 2.5 million uninsured who can and care for them, having already implemented the 2019 measures to increase family allowances through 2018, gives redistribution of income. Why are you accusing us of taxing and having taxed medium and high incomes to make them poorer? We don't make poorer. The redistribution of wealth cannot be made directly. It has to be done through taxation. I think it is a basic economic term - is it not, Professor? - that you should take from the owners and occupants to give them, who are economically weaker or small and medium-sized enterprises, or are people who fight and fight to cope with the needs of the times. It is an objective which it is best suited to. It also seems that, for the second time with the objectives that have been achieved, we are giving the social dividend, which you have not mentioned today. I already think that about a million two thousand approved household applications have been closed. Are you aware of this? What are the social groups who take this dividend? They are economically weaker groups, but also small and medium-sized social groups. Clearly, it is an amount that comes from both tax evasion and the misappropriation of expenditure. Regarding what is often said about what is going on and where the Greek economy goes: Ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition, you accuse us of destroying everything. You didn't find a good reason to say. However, everything you say is in complete contrast with what all international organisations, rating agencies, our lenders. I don't understand how you don't see all those messages. Let's remember that two years ago, whatever they said, a sneeze to do, you did it in the country huge mountain, like what each Dieselblum or any Shoeble or any foreign official said. I read what was mentioned and what message the ambassadors, Mr Season, and Mr Jeffrey Piatt sent from the Step of the International Conference on Investments in Greece to New York. Messages for investment in Greece. These messages you don't want to hear, you don't want to see them. What has ESS spokesman Nikola Javaroli just said today? "The trend for Greece is positive and will be further improved". Gentlemen, you're becoming graphic, considering everything is being destroyed. But what you see as a disaster, what you think will happen, is not going to happen. Because the country is moving forward and moving forward with a plan and firm steps. I referred to the beginning of my speech in saying things, giving answers, and it was said again today about where the New Democracy is going to spend. I read exactly what Mr Dendias has not mentioned today. He had, however, mentioned it in committee with regard to the officials. You added seventeen thousand contractors' seats to the OTAs and forced the mayors to take staff they do not want. So, in other words, it is a direct confession that the New Democracy will resolve this issue of expenditure by dismissing people. Because it is in its ideological direction, less state, private education, private health, everything in the private sector, so that only those who have and have to accept their services, and the rest of the people, it doesn't matter, for them they are not in their interests anyway. They referred to unemployment. The unemployment rate in Greece has reported it to us in the general figures and not with the elements of the "ERGANI". From 1-1-2017 to 31-12-2017 per cent thirty-seven thousand three hundred fifty-one extra net unemployment. Of these seventy-seven thousand are full-time and ninety-one are part-time. These seventy-six thousand are full-time and I am reading ELSTAT's data from 7 September. In 2012 the unemployed were one million two hundred and seventy - two thousand four hundred three. In 2014 it was a million two hundred and fifty - five thousand eight hundred forty - six unemployed. And in 2017, nine hundred eighty-one thousand twenty-six. I put it in the Minutes to see it, since you cannot convince yourself that unemployment, whatever it may be, has fallen, but you still fall the same way. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Beyalas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You said the same last October that unemployment increased by eighty-two thousand eighty ten. The Minutes of Mr Brutsis, which were also the rapporteur, were drawn up. Ladies and gentlemen, in my report to the committees I have read you all three memorandums, which you have voted on. You're talking about overtax. I have at the moment the total burden, the 2017 table, with GDP. Greece is around the European Union's average, below Austria, below Italy, below Finland, below Sweden, below Denmark, below Belgium, below France and just above Germany. Percentages of GDP. I put this in the Minutes too. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Beyalas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] One more element, because you're telling us a lot of things. The additional revenues from the arrangements for voluntary disclosure of incomes are EUR 711,000 000. Additional tax revenues amounting to EUR 711,000 have been paid to the public by the arrangements for voluntary disclosure of income. This announced the commander of the Independent Public Income Authority in his speech at the 19th investment conference for Greece held by "CAPITAL LINK" in New York, Mr. Pittsili. If you are questioning this, I put it in the Minutes, so that you can see it and stop saying what you're saying. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Beyalas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the next day after August 2018 is the clear exit and is a clean exit, because the program provides for safe pillow, which can lead us out of the memoranda so that we can be on the markets safely and stand as a country on our feet without the need for lenders. What we have been told by the New Democracy, however, is that if they come to power, they will incur funds and investment will be made. I'd like to believe them. Honestly, that is, you may bring funds, get the money from offshore and get them to invest in Greece. It would be a very good solution to invest. But that, when you were in power, you did not. Then you preferred to take them to offshore, paradise islands and to various paradise regions. Unless you think you can solve the issue of development. Why did Mr. Dendias refer to the painting of a well-known painter - I did not keep his name - and I wonder, is it the one who sold 850,000 euros? It would be a very good investment! In closing, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you are accused of this case called Greece of 2010 until 2018 and you are not prosecutors. You're accused, because you went bankrupt and you should be more wise. That's why you're gonna drink the bitter glass of counterpopulation for several more years. And you'll drink it because you went bankrupt. It's time you got serious. Three years that's the sterile opposition you've been making. The place, apart from a responsible government, which will take the country out of the memorials, needs a serious opposition, an opposition that is not confused, which can give political reason, a strategy and not just swear. Your opposition speech is just an irresistible populism of micropolitical amoralism. Gentlemen of counterpopulation, come to your senses! Happy holidays and the time we will be here and discuss the first non-mortem budget now, you will say the same, but we will proceed ahead with the citizens and the country standing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr. Beyla. Apostolos Veyropoulos, a special rapporteur from New Democracy, has the floor for 12 minutes and will be the last speaker of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the SYRIZA - ANEL government's record that the country is coming out of the memorials in the summer of 2018 is another story of what Mr Tsipras has used to us. Except the Prime Minister can't deceive and mislead anyone anymore. The only thing that succeeds, now dependent on the chair of power, is to accumulate ruins in the real economy. To lead to a dead end of thousands of citizens, households and businesses. To cause damage to the country, as demonstrated by unprecedented improvisations with the Erdogan visit, which violated every diplomatic rule and framework. The Government of Taxes and Auctions reaches the end of its life. It is now the whole of society. It is against all those who have deceived, those who have promised to abolish the ENPIA and "science" in red loans, those who have promised an increase in tax at EUR 12,000, and since then it has brought two reductions and downloaded the tax to EUR 5,681. Not only do we leave the memorandum, as the government says, but Mr. Tsipras has drunken the future of the country to prolong his stay in power. Why else would the primary surpluses of 3.5% by 2022 and the primary surpluses of 2% by 2060, which remove oxygen from the economy and society itself? Ladies and gentlemen, the 2018 budget is not read on the basis of the figures contained in it, it is read on the basis of the figures and forecasts available in the previous budgets and has been misled. It is read on the basis of the forward commitments and charges undertaken by this government, without having democratic legitimacy and in there the whole truth is reflected. What's the truth? The truth is that while you were predicting a growth rate of 2.7% last year, at the end of the day these forecasts were disproved and you had to revise them. The growth rate will move to about 1.5%. Full denial of your predictions! Of course, a discussion that diligently avoids the government is how from the growth with which it closed in 2014, led us to two years of new recession in 2015 and 2016. Doesn't he have any responsibility for that? Is the country alone in recession? The Capital Controls alone were imposed? The money from the banks alone left? Did the bank's elapsing automatically occur? The EUR 14.5 billion measures you have taken, the twenty-seven new taxes that you have imposed and the twenty-one reduction in pensions and social benefits of another government, and not yours? Second denial for the government is the growth rate of investment forecasting to fluctuate at 9.1%. Even half of it has not arrived, when all international conditions and circumstances are favourable. What investor will trust a government that has proven itself to hamper investment initiatives? Who will come to invest in a country with such high tax rates? The economy is human, households and businesses, which are at a dead end to overtaxation, with the difference that overtaxation now leads to an increase in tax evasion and a reduction in public revenue. The evidence is revealing. Direct taxes have a reduction of EUR 1,237 billion. In the 2017 budget you calculate revenues of EUR 21,525 billion and will eventually receive EUR 20,288 billion. Income taxes on natural persons are reduced by EUR 1 billion. In the 2017 budget you calculate revenues of EUR 9,265 billion and will eventually receive EUR 8,269 billion. What do all these evidences show? That incomes are falling and will fall further while you insist on the choice of overtaxation. That is why you have reduced the tax limit from EUR 9,545 to EUR 5,681, which is a new tax burden. Such a reduction in revenues against the objective is in the form of indirect taxes. Overall, the delay in the 2017 target reached EUR 3 billion, when measures such as the reduction of the tax rate, the increase in the tax advance, the permanentisation and the specific contribution of solidarity, but also a number of tax burdens on fuel, alcohol, wine, mobile telephony, pay-TV and new charges on other indirect taxes, have been introduced this year. Obviously, the government and the Minister of Finance does not say anything about the fact that citizens' late tax debts touch 100 billion euros and citizens leave unpaid taxes of one billion euro on average this month. There is nothing to tell him about the four million sixty-seven thousand four hundred eight Greek citizens who owe tax, which is equivalent to 50% of the Greeks. The number of nine hundred ninety-one thousand three hundred ninety-two citizens who have been confiscated tell him nothing. He's about to move on to confiscations and against the rest. He is about to break the record of seizures created and held by this government, with twenty thousand seizures per month. You're the government of taxes, confiscations and auctions. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2018 budget is moving into the logic of taxes, which this government has submitted over the last two years. Direct taxes will be set at EUR 20,766 billion, increased by EUR 478 million compared with 2017 and reduced by EUR 687 million compared to the medium-term budgetary strategy objective. We are talking about the extreme irrationality of a government, which does not realize that citizens' tax capacity has been exhausted, which was confirmed in 2017. The personal income tax is set at EUR 8,725 billion. In other words, we have an increase of EUR 456 million compared with 2017. This and only the element, but also the reduction recorded in 2017 in income tax revenues of natural persons, brings closer to the activation of the new tax reduction. The property tax, i.e. ENVIA, is expected to reach EUR 3,379 billion, with an increase of EUR 179 million compared with 2017. It is another "success" of this government, which had promised to abolish HNVO and finally increased charges by increasing the rates of additional HNVO and reducing the tax rate from EUR 300,000 to EUR 200,000. The most unfair indirect taxes, after affecting the economically weaker, are planned to be set at EUR 27,390 billion, an increase of EUR 473 million compared with 2017 and a reduction of EUR 112 million against the medium-term fiscal strategy objective. Another "effect" of this government is that the budgetary balance between direct and indirect taxes has been reversed and there is no longer the necessary balance. Indirect taxes, those affecting the economically weaker, now account for 52% of regular public revenue and direct taxes account for 39%. The 2018 budget includes EUR 1.9 billion new measures. In particular, insurance contributions for freelance professionals and professionals shall be increased, as the contributions will be calculated on the net profits of the professional or the undertaking, increased by the insurance contributions paid during 2017. In other words, we have as a country the paradox to pay insurance contributions for the insurance contributions it has already paid, without being deducted from net income, as was the case to this day. The deduction to the withholding tax of 1.5% currently in force for over three million employees and pensioners to clear their tax returns is abolished, a measure of EUR 68 million. The ETUC is reduced and definitively abolished with the signature of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. Another hundred and forty thousand pensioners are lost and added to the thirty - five thousand who have already lost it. For those who forget it, I have to remind you that the previous Samara government had EUR 900 million for the CSCE. You will only make 80m euros available in 2018 and in 2019 the CSCE is permanently abolished, with your signature. Reductions and cuts are being imposed in the single wage, in particular for the 50 000 members of the Armed Forces and the Security Corps. The 10% deduction from the personal income tax on medical expenses incurred in 2017 is abolished, which means an additional tax burden of EUR 121 million for two million taxpayers and especially for pensioners in the year 2018 when the income tax is being cleared. A new tax on stays in hotels and rooms is imposed. A tax of up to 45% is levied on short-term leases. It cuts the heating allowance by 50%, a measure which will particularly affect the economically weakest in mountain areas, especially in northern Greece. Reduced VAT rates are abolished in the remaining thirty two Aegean islands, despite the promises and lionism of the government, in the islands that the government itself has loaded the management of immigration, dismantling the local economy and tourism. Two weeks ago New Democracy tabled an amendment to extend the scope of reduced VAT rates on these islands. Why didn't you agree to bring her to the vote? You did not do so and so to stop the fairy tale that they imposed on you their abolition or the even bigger tale that the New Democracy Government had agreed to abolish them. The Government of New Democracy had also received pressure, but never accepted the abolition of reduced VAT rates. It was your choice. He's got your signature. One more thing. Does anyone remember the announcements made by the Government and the Minister for Rural Development that they would abolish the excise duty on wine they imposed? It turns out that this government is capable of just one thing to increase and not reduce taxes. Ladies and gentlemen, I come to the issue of controlling and restricting tax evasion. Only as a joke is the assurance and announcement of the Prime Minister and government officials that the SYRIZA - ANLE Government would receive EUR 2 or 3 billion a year from tax evasion control. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Two minutes, Mr. President. I'm done. The evidence presented together with the budget for combating tax evasion serves the government's lies and purposes, which is trying to produce results in an area in which it ranks well below the base. The lists you made public on tax evasion and smuggling do not refer to the amounts collected from taxes and fines that have been established, but also to the number of cases that fall within the decisions of the Council of State, which has decided that retroactive controls and their results have been invalid, setting the limit of the five-year limitation. Everyone knows that at the end of the year, on 31 December, there is a limitation on thousands of cases of tax evasion and, in fact, a high level, when they are charged to the audit centres on the Lagard list a month before the limitation. Who's this government making fun of? When we told you as of August 2015 that the course of the checks and the results that were in existence in the ILO, you were indifferent to the controls in a sector where smuggling was blossoming and that there were losses of billions of euros. It's about smuggling into fuel, where the 2015 and 2016 controls collapsed. You received ready and established by the Government of New Democracy the inflow-out system at the liquid-fuel stations, but which your Government has not succeeded three years later. You have neither implemented the installation of a similar input-output system in the refineries and in the liquid fuel trading companies, but also a GPS system in tankers and waterways, so that there can be control over the entire chain of traffic. As far as the controls were concerned, the controls in offshore companies were sixty-five in 2015 and thirty-four in 2016. In other words, for two years you have done fewer checks than 2014, when there had been a hundred twelve controls. The amounts collected from controls to combat fuel infringement amounted to EUR 26 million in 2014, decreased to EUR 8,800,000 in the period 2015-2016, only EUR 1,300000 in the first half of 2017. It is obvious that the government has nothing to do with anything but fierce results when it closes the eye to tax evasion. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2018 budget is another anti-development budget, a tax budget without end and without logic. It is impressive, ladies and gentlemen, that this government's addiction to lies, but even more impressive evidence is the cynicism that emerges from the government's party. Those who said 'no house in the hands of a banker' are now coming and accuse New Democracy of having legislated to protect the first home and could not be auctioned. We are talking about absolute cynicism along with lies that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government will protect the first residence, because there is no longer any protection for the first residence nor any limit. Stop lying, because very soon we'll be in uncontrolled situations. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy will vote against the budget. Mr Tsipras' government has already been judged by the citizens. Her disapproval will be strong. The country, as much as this government does not want, will make a new start with a serious, coherent and credible government and with a serious and reliable new Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. Besiropoulos. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-11-S1-commons.u129	With the agreement of the House at 23.58 p.m. the meeting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday 12 December 2017 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's work: legislative work, continuation of the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Structuring the State Budget for the financial year 2018’.
