ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u1	Good morning, all colleagues, all colleagues and our chosen guests. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval of 6-3-2017, the minutes of its PRACTICAL sessions of Monday, 6 March 2017, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: ‘Statification of the Agreement on cooperation in the tourism sector between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the State of Kuwait’.]] We enter the SPECIFIC FACILITY ORGANIZATION Parliament's special session on the subject: 'Requests and priorities for gender equality in a changing world: Health, Labour and Civilian Violence'. I shall now speak on behalf of the Bureau. The Government will then speak on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Efi Ahtsoglou, for ten minutes and will be followed by the ladies and gentlemen who have been appointed by the Parliamentary Groups of all the parties in this House with their position for six minutes and those Heads who want it for ten minutes. That's the process. Today we are calling and we welcome Mrs Vassilios Thanos - Christophilos, President of the Ice Bay and former Prime Minister, Mrs Anna Psarouda - Benaki, former President of the Greek Parliament, Mrs Happiness Fountoulaki, General Committee of regular Administrative Courts, Mrs Styliani Vrakas, Secretary-General of Social Security, Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mrs Maria Vlazaki, Secretary-General of the Ministry of Culture and Sport, Mrs Eurydiki Kurnetta, Secretary-General of the Ministry of Tourism, Ms Maria Papaspyrou, General Inspector of Public Administration, Ms Nikol Raptis, Special Inspectorate of Public Administration, Calliopis, Ms. So we will begin today's debate. As every year, Parliament organises this special session for Women's Day, on the 8th anniversary of March. We all know or ought to know and remember women workers at the textile factories in New York, who were hit during a demonstration in which they claimed their rights to equal opportunities and equal pay to men's workers, by the police, and this demonstration was blood-painted. Much later, of course, since 1857, in 1910, this day was set as an anniversary for Women’s Day, especially the working woman. Colleagues and fellow guests, the era we live in, is a time of rapid changes, generalized insecurity and uncertainty, wars, violence and refugee. So we are used to calling it the monster age at this time. People either return to the darkness of the past or lose hope to change their lives. The old one is late to die and the new one is struggling to be born against the powerful of this earth and international order, who leave nothing new to be born. In this gloomy atmosphere and against the obstacles that exist, people also have positive examples of resistance and solidarity. The examples may be few, in order to prophesy that the spring of the change in our lives will come, but there are and we expect positive surprises every time to change the lives of all people and actually be able to talk about a better life on the planet. I will try to talk about today's subject through two recent examples, which I think illustrate the subject of today's special session. One is the legislative initiative taken by the Erdogan government in Turkey to decriminate the crime of rape against minors, since the perpetrators of this vile crime marry their victims. There has been a great deal of noise in both Turkey and outside it and the famous Article 49 has been withdrawn. Of course, it has been withdrawn, but in nine countries this legislation applies, and therefore this crime is decriminating, and it is from an instantly time when it becomes permanent, in a marriage of oppression, indifference and inhumanity. So in these nine countries that are the Philippines, Iraq, Bahrain, Tajikistan and Tunisia, there are still minor women who are raped and married to their rapists. I think this is an extreme example of the racial violence that is a reality throughout the planet, regardless of how developed countries, regardless of the customs, customs and traditions that exist in each country, because racial violence is ultimately a phenomenon of unbelievable historical endurance. Violence, rape are as old as patriarchy. At the same time, I would like to say a second example that has recently been made. An extreme right-wing Polish MEP, on March 3, 2017, in the European Parliament, took the floor and claimed that women should be paid and paid less than men, because they are “less intelligent, weaker and smaller”. I think that what the Polish extreme right has dared to say to the European Parliament - with the courage that far right in the world and in Europe in general - is what the majority of men throughout the world think and, at the same time, the states that refuse to legislate on equal work. These two examples I think it is worth once again today, in today's era of uncertainty and insecurity, and to say really that what we're told is what some feminist movements are saying for today 'Today we are not celebrating and we are not receiving any visits', because the image of the woman today continues to be black. I would therefore like to try to highlight what we are trying to do as women and what we cannot do, and we need to unite all our voices together. Colleagues and colleagues, Greece is in the twenty-nineth place for equal opportunities for men and women if we calculate that the United States of America is in the fifty-fifth place and the United Kingdom in the thirty-nine. With this indicator alone - I am not saying any more - there seems to be a relatively good situation for our country's women in Greece. Of course, it is not possible for women in our country to be in a different situation than women in a period of generalised unemployment, because it is women who are first condensing the ranks of the unemployed, the ranks of black uninsured work, the black work that is generalized and above normal, legal, legal, and insured work. That's the big problem. It is women who first return home who are there to welcome their adult children, who are unemployed returning to children's rooms to hide their unemployment. It is there to encourage the husband who lives in a precariousness and is forced into compromises. It is there to encourage older parents, who all together are also trying to survive with the pension of these parents. Women - heroines, these invisible women of everyday life, give a real fight to survive themselves, defend their choices, while at the same time they are victims of others' choices. I therefore believe that we must respect these women, we must really honour them today, whether they are workers or unemployed, and every time we show the anniversary of 8 March in the specific circumstances which - even in introductory terms - are celebrated. Beyond all this, I believe that, apart from how each woman experiences the issue of work, social security and everyday life, what we cannot know is that any legislation which enables women to have dignity, can have children in infant and child stations, can have access to health, which is one of the greatest goods, whether they are insured or not, regardless of whether they are working or not, and can actually have the opportunity to have a basic social self-esteem and pride. However, apart from the fact that in every country, every culture, on every continent, there are the particular problems that we all know - and I will not go into them - I would like to stress that, apart from the economic situation, what runs across all countries is civil violence. It is this issue of violence that we really need to show, because it is very serious, because it is the greatest violation of human rights. Discrimination, humiliation, physical violence because of women's gender is a raw violation of human rights. I think we are all involved in the tragic figures that exist throughout the world in relation to violence against women. Violence has neither class nor political preferences. Violence is everywhere. There's on the way to work, university, school, there's everywhere. It is expressed in a variety of ways: verbal violence, psychological, economic, sexual harassment, forced labour, trafficking, the ban on labour, in other cases, the dissemination of negative rumours, the use of women as an object. So this overall violence, which is unleashed every day against women, is a phenomenon that needs to be eliminated and we need to force our countries and our governments to sign the Istanbul Convention on the Elimination of Violence Against Women and Adult Girls. It is an obligation, because, if this convention is ratified, all governments will then be forced to adopt legislative measures to protect women against violence and punish all those who practice violence by any means at the expense of women or when we have gender-based discrimination and sexual orientation. So I think that at this crucial point that humanity, which is all uncertain, we cannot tolerate the issue of violence being dominated everywhere. Racial violence is the most degraded form men use against women. It's not just criminal. There is never a healthy motive in the exercise of violence. Love never kills. Love never immoralizes. Love never leaves disabilities to people. All this, which men invoke, in various cases, is a product of jealousy, a product of love, a product of claiming violence, is lies and myths. It's the contempt against women's sex, it's the exploitation of women's weakness when they violence her. And as violence is a means of manipulation and social discipline, when powers exercise it, so do men, when violence is carried out, because they want to discipline the other sex and manipulate it for a certain purpose. So we need this phenomenon of unprecedented historical endurance to take it out. First of all, women must, before even the criminal punishment, destroy the men who are abrupt to any form of violence against women. That's our debt. Women's weapon is women's solidarity. Women's solidarity is the means to be truly proud of our gender, so that we can feel that there is a case, a possibility and a path for women's emancipation. We need to talk about those who have no voice. We must fight for those who cannot fight. We must complain about those who do not have the opportunity to protest, because customs and customs in their countries do not allow them to do so. That means women's solidarity. Women who are integrated, conscious, cannot build competitive relationships between them. They must be women who build partnerships, who can actually build tomorrow's relations through freedom, respect and reciprocity, because these are the elements that link the free people and can be equal members of a democratic and free society. That is why I call for us, as women's privileges, who are in Parliament, who are in public office, that we have exceeded the anonymity, to use this power to speak of those women who are invisible, voiceless, unspeakable, women of the margin. That corresponds to us on such a day. This is our obligation. Thank you. [[Applause]] Now the Minister for Labour has the floor, Mrs. Efi Ahtsioglu, for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, with a similar motto I shall begin. "We don't celebrate and accept visits," said the motto of Greek feminists a few years ago, wanting to remind you that March 8, the Women's Day, is not another anniversary, it is not another formal celebration of what the orderly society has established to wash away its guilt often, demonstrating hypocritical respect for what it oppresses. Today is a day of memory of the great strike on March 8, 1857, in New York, where the workers' protests at the rhetoric and the textile industry called for an equilibrium of wages with men workers, human working conditions and a reduction in working hours. These demonstrations were drowned in blood. It is a day of honor in the struggles of all women of every age to remove the inequalities between men and women in economic, social and political life. It is a day of special honor to those leading women, from Margaret Fuller to Simon de Bovour, from Callirroe Parren to Elektra Apostle, who, in their words and in their actions, showed that the limits exist to overcome. It is the day when our thoughts and our hearts are found in women refugees and immigrants, whose odyssey starts from their countries, where they often fall victim to discrimination, and continue during their journey to Europe, where they are faced with slavery, fornication and sexual exploitation. It is, however, a day of promise, of vigilance and solidarity with women all over the world who have fought and fought against the exploitation of human beings and the multiple manifestations of this exploitation, as expressed on women, from production to family, motherhood, sexual relations, every time its place in the communities of exploitation. It is a day that highlights the daily and necessary struggle for equality, emancipation and the lifting of this conservative concept of weak sex, the fight against sexism, racial discrimination, violence against women. All that may sound like slogans or hollow words are demands that are raised and made urgently, because in the end none of this is a given, much less at a juncture defined by the expression of extreme fascist and racist voices in the up to now progressive, democratic and western, so-called world. A few days ago - the President said - we attended the European Parliament the extreme right-wing Polish MEP Yanus Corvin - Mikke saying that women are weak, small, and less intelligent than men, and that they should be paid less. At the same time in the United States of America the election of Trump has made sexism dominated by public spheres and political speech, a phenomenon which - not to forget - is also in our country. Today, all over the world, women's equal access to health, education, work is neither guaranteed nor self-evident. The elements of the World Economic Forum report are relentless: Economic inequality between men and women is growing and will need, he says, more than a hundred seventy years to bridge. According to the World Bank, only 50% of women now have access to the labour market. Women are paid on average 24% less than men. In a hundred countries, women are having problems in accessing the labour market on the grounds of sex, while in eighteen countries men have a legal right to allow their women not to work. It is well-known and well-known that women, especially younger women, are at the forefront of the crisis in Greece and the data we have from the OAED are characteristic: Of all registered unemployed the percentage of men is 39% and women are 61%. We cannot overlook the fact that in the last two years there has been a reduction in unemployment by three percentage points. It is certainly a reduction that does not allow us to celebrate, but it is worth showing that this government is struggling day after day to reduce unemployment, to find young people and new jobs again. The Government's insistence on restoring working normality also arises from this undeniable need for no employer to be able to dismiss a worker as a result of pregnancy, no worker being paid less than money, no worker being exploited as a result of their gender. And in this battle we want women workers, women's organisations, trade unions. Ladies and gentlemen, six years of crisis have had dramatic repercussions on women's lives. It is not just unemployment, it is not just the deregulation of the institutional framework of work and the dramatic decline in pay. The decline in the social state has reinstated women's shoulders to take care of dependent members. At the same time, the footstep of the crisis had a dramatic impact on health and thus on life itself. Access to health services, says the General Secretariat of Equality, is dramatically reduced for women of the medium and low economic and social level. A first and crucial step is the introduction of the right to free access to all public health structures, to provide health care to uninsured people, which our Government has moved forward. But the road is long. The way we are going to deal with the issues of racial discrimination in the field of work, unemployment, social exclusion, education is a long way away. And that is what we are determined to do. For many and many, the demand for equality between men and women in the midst of an economic crisis is secondary. For us the struggle for social emancipation cannot exist without the struggle for women's emancipation. Social rights, women's rights are ultimately those conditions that judge the real development of our country, the real social and political development of our country, because in the end, the powerful relations, the profoundly rooted concepts associated with the social sexes, men and women, constitute the deep democratic deficit. But it is not just a government's case to protect and promote social rights, it is a matter of society as a whole, a society that must claim, control, propose, a society to be vigilant and a combat movement that will turn individual discontent into a collective reaction and a force of overthrowing. And history itself shows us that women can be in the front line and change the course of history: from the pioneer workers of the trade union movement and the fighters of EAM against fascism to the refugee mothers who have not feared death to live a free life. Today we honor all these women in our country and around the world and send a message that no woman is alone. We continue to fight for genuine equality between men and women, a struggle which is a struggle for democracy, a struggle for freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u3	The President of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Dimitrios Koutsoubas has the floor. Mr. Kutsuba, you've got ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u4	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The Communist Party of Greece, on the occasion of the International Women's Day, is mainly addressed to the wage-earning woman, the working worker, the self-employed worker, the rural woman, the unemployed, the retired woman, especially the young woman, and calls on them to continue the racing message of March 8, the textile workers and the tailor-winners of New York in 1857, who fought for elementarily better working conditions, to compare their own will, action on the labour movements today, in the radical women's movement, against the mockery of the alleged involvement of women in the so-called 'decided decision-making centres'. The organisation of popular action, as effectively as possible, really needs new forces in the fight today. We call on them to be inspired by the existing outbreaks of resistance, radical, communist creation, thought, action, which opens the way even within the ruins and disasters, injustices, suffering, which is caused by the intensity of class exploitation, under conditions of economic crisis and the real decline of the movement. On the occasion of the International Women's Day, we are sure that many hypocritical messages will be heard about the so-called 'Gender Equality' and here, in the House, as well as the representatives of the institutions, the European Union, the International Monetary Fund, other transnational organisations, from the Greek Industrialists Association in Greece, the other representatives of the monopolistic groups. In particular, you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, who are here today - because the gentlemen are completely absent from what I can see from the government benches - with the famous National Gender Equality Action Plan 2016-2020, are trying to dress up with a progressive cloak the literal implementation of anti-grass policy, when you have taken the ballot out of the previous governments, the faithful implementation of the current programme, which you have voted with your other colleagues, the third memorandum. And the new round of negotiation between the government and the "quartet" will result in a further barbaric package of anti-grassroots measures. And, of course, it does not redeem you for all of this in an anniversary, unfortunately, to women fighting, communists, since you are perpetuating their ideals, values, visions and practical action, that is, all that they have given with their racing presence, even reaching their own lives. That's why we're saying that in the art of deception you get excellent. At the time of "meta- austerity", along with other anti-grass fairy tales, they come to cover the burden of the place of the hirer, the professional, the farmer, the pensioner, the new mother, the student, the immigrant. When you refer to rights such as women's work, you mean the most decisive support of the demands of capitalist employers for exploitation and women's tensions. The so-called'reconciliation of women's family and occupational obligations', which has been permanently on the EU's agenda since the 1990s, has been linked to the promotion of flexible labour relations. At the same time, the state is relieved of the responsibility of social policy, almost exclusively by putting the burden of caring for children, the elderly, the disabled, the household. It is no coincidence that in Greece 60% of parttime workers are women. What does the current government say, as does the other management parties of this exploiting system, of course also loyally follow the directions of the European Union? That women's unemployment rates are very high and that we need to find ways of strengthening women's employment. It is no coincidence that you are talking in general and abstract terms about employment and not specifically about permanent, stable work with full employment and insurance rights. Women working with flexible employment relationships are deprived of a number of benefits, which require a certain number of days' wages, such as marriage allowance, hostage, sickness, unemployment and so on. You say that the skills of women in poorly paid and insecure jobs can be exploited in local social care services, in various non-governmental organisations. The so-called solidarity economy is being exploited on this territory as an instrument for managing unemployment, as an area where the price of the labour force is even lower, income, wages and wages, while at the same time exerting overall pressure to reduce it and in all sectors of the economy. With a "sbaro" you are trying to achieve "two birds", further reduce State responsibility and funding to social services and health, education and welfare infrastructures and charge the burden of increased payments for them to the people's households. In the position of collective labour and social rights, it is allegedly a maximum democratic right to individual or family responsibility - it says - and responsibility. Who, however, is most burdened with the context of the people's family? The woman. Of course, you are not making the job jungle faced by the majority of women who are employed, especially those who work for mothers. They deal with the employer's aggression that reaches out to pregnant women's redundancies, the blackmailing to sign a statement that he won't have a family, that he won't have children. Recently, the example of the cleaners at the "PAGNI" Hospital of Heraklion Crete under the contract scheme. Apart from working eight hours and very intensively, while their contract is for an hour, there are even basic rights to the protection of maternity. A worker has had to return to work a few weeks after giving birth, since neither the leave granted to permanent hospital employees nor the six-month leave granted by the OAED to private workers is entitled. It is the hard reality for mercenary scientists, for those working with a "block", but also for those working in the voucher programs, which are mutually beneficial. That's not enough. Monopolies are demanding more, more. They seek to replace with a state grant the status of a worker absent because of birth or maternity, temporarily exploiting an unemployed person who they call a deputy for that time, i.e. they will not be entitled to compensation or anything. This means'supporting maternity' in the dialect of major business groups! For the capitalist state and employers, maternity is a cost. And then, of course, you're whining about fertility! Accordingly, from this strategic point of view of health, which is even devastated at the time of work, it is considered to be costs for large capital and a negative element - it says - competitiveness. In this sense, all measures taken for health, prevention, treatment and rehabilitation are taken using the logic of cost-benefit. Criterion is not to meet the current needs of the entire people's family, of course, with emphasis on the particular needs of women arising from their role and the reproductive process. Criterion is whether the benefit of treatment costs cheaper in capital if it serves the competitiveness of major business groups. Everything around motherhood, that is, it's a merchandise. Prenatal control and childbirth are a commodity, and even extremely expensive, delivered to private health figures. Here you do not hesitate to urge women to give birth at home as a prerequisite to receiving the childbirth allowance. It is no coincidence that birth at home reduces the cost for the state by 60%. This logic in the context of this urban management opens up every aspect of the women's social, economic, political and cultural life, as well as the issue of violence against women. In the context of this rotten society, individualism, competition, selfish lifestyles, which permeate and smuggle social relations, relations between the sexes, the personality of the woman and the man, are exaggerated. All of this reflects and exacerbates the incidents of violence against women as an extreme racial distinction between class exploitation societies. Based on data from 2015, the Centre for Equality Research, seven out of ten women addressing structures for abused women are unemployed mothers. These are women who are trapped in an authoritarian, violent marital relationship because of the economic conditions of their lives, particularly in conjunction with the lack of public and free provision of social services. As an existing social issue you are entrusted with managing this problem to municipalities, to other institutions, but mainly to NGOs, with funding from European programmes of a short duration. This demonstrates the limitation of state responsibility to degraded and inadequate free services for abused women and their children. Capitalism has always found ways to reproduce the inequality of women in the working class, because it is a source of additional gain. The formal recognition of women's rights in modern society has not actually relieved it from a life-style - 'ladder'. Much more - and that is the decisive one - did not relieve it of capitalist exploitation. Whatever kind of burger you wear in urban modernizations, so-called gender equality is another vehicle to eliminate positive regulations in favour of women. The Communist Party of Greece gives, gave and will continue to give all its powers to reconstruct the labour movement, the popular movement, the construction of the social alliance. On this road it is possible to block new measures, to claim the withdrawal of losses we have had in recent years, to defend labour, popular conquests and rights - what is still there - and to organize the popular attack, with the rise of female participation in the struggle, in a break and overthrow with its capital and power. The world can change in the interests of the people's majority, which is being tortured today. This road can be opened today, in our view, with a stronger JRC, in the struggle for society that can satisfy the modern needs of the working class woman, our people, which will relieve her of labour wandering, unemployment, labour intensification, stress, life with obligations but without rights. The hard and pioneering struggle by women and men of the working class, the populaces, who have seen before the previous century, since the previous century, throughout the 20th century, from the great resistance of EAM-ELAS, EPAON, where hundreds of thousands of women of Greek women participated, then in the Democratic Army of Greece, the great democratic struggles until today, which have seen in front and which have opened the way for some specific conquests, show today's way to total female emancipation, equality, side by side, hand, men and women of work in a society with the working class, the people, really to power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u5	The speaker of Corfu Law, Mr Fotini Vaki, has the floor on behalf of SYRIZA for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, my dear guests are invited: 'Today we are not celebrating and we are not receiving any visits'. This saying by Greek feminists suggests that the anniversarys are not customary events or celebrations for the realisation of rights in the field of history, but reminders of their constant wrestling. If the history of rights is the story of their claims, the story of small and large emancipation racing, anonymous grief and sacrifices, destruction and bloodthirsty days of history, the anniversarys must include them on the agenda, saving them from oblivion. The anniversary of the International Women's Day must be a crack in the continuation of a history of oppression and an interruption in a great chain of domination, starting from the gender of ancient Athenian democracy, whose citizen is a genus of males. The emblem “eternal of lights” leaves women in darkness, and even though the concept of human rights, born by the great new inner revolutions, is based on the equality of all people under their own nature, one of their inspirations, Concorde, underlines the irony of the French Revolution, which guarantees the right to equality for men, ignoring 12 million women. "Whoever denies his fellowman's rights because of his religion, race or sex..." writes "...in essence denies his own rights." The selfish and arrogant linear time of history, written by and for winners, broke some resistance fragments. The historic acidity of human rights, which, from their triumphant declarations, has taunted women, embodies Olympia de Güz, who in the Declaration of Women's Rights and Citizens, writes: "Woman has the right to rise to the scaffolding. It should also have the right to take the step.' The misuse and commercialisation of the anniversary that tended to become a synonym of evenings of women's expenses, of wish exchanges and roses, emptys in the literal of oblivion some other roses not accompanied by chocolates and sparkling smiles. This is the motto of "Psalm and Roses" that vibrated the streets of New York in 1908 by a female protest organized by the textile craft workers and became the crossroads that met the female and labour movement, showing that the lifting of racial inequality is a lifting of labour exploitation and a manifestation of the lifting of human exploitation. The fate of Olympia de Gouse was the guillotine and the New York workers, prison, violence and hunger. Two years later, in 1910, at the Second Conference of Socialists in Copenhagen, Clara Chetkin will propose March 8 as Women's Day, to honor not only the workers of 1908 but also the tailors and weavers who organized the first female protest on the same day in the same city, March 8, 1857. The first decades of the 20th century were sealed by grand demonstrations claiming equal rights at work and voting, while in our time, the day of the woman survived in the exiles of the silk dictatorship, in the EAM, in the mountains, in the free Greece. It refers to the Panhellenic Women's Association, the PGC, which was dismantled by anti-communist L.509 of 1947 in junta's stone years, with the rain girls writing their own resistance story. Hegel claimed that history progressed through negative, through pain, violence, blood. Violence is the heavy price, the ransom that history should pay for the realization of the right word in history. Our century, hemorrhaging and indebtedness, found us women now to be able to participate actively in politics, work evenly, and to fill CVs with circumstantial qualifications and posts. But is that so? Female births disobedience and resistance, but female gender and judgment. Female generation and violence. The weavings and tailors of the 19th century, the workers of the beginning of the 20th century, became Greek cleaners of the Ministry of Finance, recalling that emancipation from the yoke of male rule is inextricably synonymous with the demand for emancipation by a man-in-hearted capitalism, while in the testimony of the 21st century's labour movement Constantina Kuneva, which incorporates the most vulnerable and vulnerable group, women's immigrants. The crisis has shown that women are the first victims of redundancies, the most vulnerable group in insecure and flexible working relationships. In addition, the right of maternity is being circumvented in practice, although regulated in labour legislation, provided that there is a prejudice against women mothers in recruitment. Finally, forced prostitution, as the racial aspect of traficking, this post-new slave trade, which annuls all the neo-dominant formulation of the rights of freedom, equality and dignity, victims of domestic violence, spouses, domestic rape, genital mutilation, sexual harassment at the workplace, as well as the imprisonment of positive women and compulsory exploratory gynecological examinations in female prisons, become undisputed witnesses of the undisputed promise of equality and a story repeated as a tragedy. Women's Day, today, let's give voice to the buzzers and invisible, to the defeated not even monasteries, to the dark ones, to the housewife of the next door, who, although cooking, nursing and nursing, was only rewarded with gifts, roses at Mother's Day, and that conscientious 'bravo' for devotion to the sacred mission of bringing up her children, to the unemployed, to the immigrant with life on the unclaimed, to the refugee who rewrited an Odyssey without Itha, to women who protested against the ban on abortion in women's bodies that became marketable items and fields of power. And all of the land may remind us that "our right to have rights", as a woman, Hannah Arent, said, "is not engraved in modern memory, but field of struggles and agony and constant confrontation with relationships of power". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-one students and students and two educational attendants from the 2nd General High Thevas. We welcome you to the House, which honors Women's Day. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Olga Kefalayannis, Member of the Parliament of Athens from New Democracy for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u8	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would like to say that it is very pleasant that the Secretary-General of the Communist Party spoke today. I would expect more men to speak to be able to understand how and those issues of gender equality in a day like 8 March, which should be a day of reflection and a day of self-criticism for issues relating to gender equality in both Greece and the rest of the world. The only thing for sure is that it is not another celebration. It is a day of reminding women's important struggles for an equal and productive place in society. Ladies and gentlemen, the dramatic developments marked by the 20th century are changing rapidly and to the best the basic functions and institutions of global civil society. Changes, tensions, value and economic crisis, war and migration, increasing violence are dramatically changing the lives of millions of citizens in the east and west. The post-war model of prosperity and lasting progress, the model of respect for the values of democracy and freedom is being shaken. The world we are living today no longer has much in common with the world we met a few years ago. Today that populism is on the rise and the expressions of the expression of society are unfortunately the subject of a woman being particularly precarious. No conquest from the past, no victory small or large should be considered as secured. Just a few days ago, the President also referred to this, an extreme MEP told the European Parliament that women should be paid less because they are weaker, smaller and less intelligent. It wasn't the first time that he was expressing himself like this, and, unfortunately, he's not the only one. Of course, everyone will talk about marginal extremist voices that have no resonance, but the bell is ringing. And in defending individual freedoms, in claiming human rights, we should never underestimate a single and marginal voice, because we know how deeply rooted there are attitudes and perceptions that want women in a second role, that nothing should be seen as self-evident and secure. Women still have to be in a position of battle, defence and vindication. Ladies and gentlemen, the health sector is particularly important for gender equality. Health is directly related not only to personal, social and economic prosperity, but also to human dignity and physical integrity. If we observe the fertility indicators, according to ELSTAT, from 1974 to 2016 have a downward trend. In the year 1975 the total fertility index was 2.3%, followed by a decline with some minor variations and the year 2014 reached 1.30%. In conclusion, the index is lower than the replacement level of generations that is 2.1%, thus underlining low fertility. At the same time, we also have an increase in mother's average age during her first child, resulting in a reduction in the number of children who will have a woman during her life. All of this comes as a result of both the multiple roles that women have over the years of development and the small institutionalised aid they have in these roles. Women's health examinations are particularly interesting. This is a little better. In 2009, we notice that 52.8% of women had never done mammography, while in 2014 this figure fell to 38.4%. In 2009, 31.2% of women had never performed PPP tests, while in 2014 this rate fell to 21.3%. We see improvement in both cases. However, there is still much to be done to reduce these rates even more. We must not lose sight of the fact that the total mortality of malignant neoplasms in women is directly and strongly related to the low socio-economic level, the chronic social burden and the unfavourable situations, such as unemployment. In the area of work now, unfortunately, things are not so pleasant. First of all, let us see the general European environment. According to the European Union, the gender equality index shows that marginal progress has been made. Gender equality in the field of work tends to improve, although there is still a significant gender gap in employment, income and earnings. On the other hand, despite the fact that the increase in the number of women in positions at the top of the hierarchical scale has been recorded since 2005, this progress has not been sufficient to reverse the enormous overrepresentation of men. In Greece, however, it is particularly unpleasant, mainly because of the unemployment which is plagued by the female population. According to OAED figures from the unemployed in November 2016 men amount to 37.6% and women 62.3%. It is obvious that women are much more affected by unemployment than men, with lower wages, precarious working conditions, a principle of resurgence in the hierarchy. The question of the economic crisis, therefore, in Greece is not only a financial one, it is also a question of gender equality, it is also a question of rights, and the state must intervene immediately and effectively here. Ladies and gentlemen, in Greece the claim for gender equality has been delayed, so that the steps to be taken are many and important. Today, women must at all costs understand their powers and values, which remain strong in persuasiveness of every foreign treaty. Today, here in Greece of the crisis, the public debate on the position of women in the social and political area must be relaunched, so that Greek women can participate in the public at all levels without obstacles, without prejudice, with a view to the reconstruction of the Greek society. All the political forces must stand up to the circumstances, all of which believe in gender equality, we must be together, in order to break the anachronistic stereotypes that shape this unfair gender correlation, not to allow inequality to be maintained within the unstable, fluid and uncertain environment of the crisis, not to allow steps backwards in what we would have achieved on the road to equality. We must strengthen the position of Greece, which in spite of the difficulties, gives battles, goes beyond its limits, makes sacrifices, does not contract, claims. This woman needs Greek society, strong, fighting, optimistic, confident. In this battle, not only is the position of Greece at stake, the vision of a healthy and coherent society of equal rights and opportunities for all is at stake. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the educational program "Workery Democracy" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-six students and students and three educational attendants from the 6th Pullini Municipal School. We welcome you to the House that honors the Women's Day today. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ms Eve Christophilopoulou, Member of the Attica Party of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Madam President. I would say that it is also a day of decision that we are invited, ladies and gentlemen, because 8 March is not a day of celebration, but a day of remembrance and remembrance. And I'm not going to give a solemn speech, but I'm going to try and see if some stereotypes have fallen and changed, because it all starts with stereotypes. And the stereotype that has been achieved seems to be that the right political reason is a reason for equality, that in our discussions, ladies and gentlemen, we all say that we believe in gender equality, that gender equality is necessary for democracy, and that decisions taken by gender balance bodies are substantiated by better decisions, better decisions, better decisions, fairer decisions. So equality between men and women in decision-making bodies is a good thing. But there is also the other side of the coin. There are women and men out there in our society, and many times and foretold women, who wonder: 'We are still well talking about equality'. This issue has been resolved by constitutional law. There is no question of equality. You're all ahead, you're studying, you're going better to universities, you're adoring. To the persuasiveness of those who do not want excellence, women do. So what's the matter? Is there a problem? They wonder about these voices in society. The issue, ladies and gentlemen, has been resolved, legislated, voted, financed but not resolved. He was judged, but it wasn't solved. Because constitutional provisions which actually guarantee equal pay for equal work exist. In fact, the 2001 review allows the Greek state to make positive discrimination in order to alleviate the gender gap. So the Greek legal order is complete or almost complete. Most of the directives on sexual harassment and violence have been incorporated, too, at the level of actions on violence against women. But where are we today? I will add a few numbers to what has already been heard, but it is important. Let us see a European indicator, in relation to stereotypes, for racial violence. There is, therefore, the following positive effect on the Eurobarometer. 96% of European citizens think sexual harassment is an act and an act that is unacceptable. In this 96%, however, there is a 27%, keep the number of respondents, who say that sexual activity between married or cowardly partners can also be done without consent. So there is a 27% of citizens who say: 'It's okay if we're married, let there be violence.' This shows that there is still a long way to read. As also shows the fact that despite the institutionalised today in Greece and in Europe, we are paid for equal work of 15% less than men. This figure rises to 20% many times. For all kinds of work, every form of work, we have less pay for women than men. So those 1857 tailors and weavings we spoke about - and we did well, because we must not forget - that were literally hung up and working on the machine 15 hours, when their men and women worked ten hours - look at the ten hours compared to 15 hours - they have nothing to do with the struggles of the 1980s in our country which fought and conquered several institutional safeguards. The course, therefore, and the evolution of women's claims and women's struggles has a positive look, but it also has a negative one. It has the negative look that we are even under-represented at all today. And if we look at it - I will not talk about unemployment, because there are many percentages, I will only give a further percentage of what has been said about unemployment - in the fact that even the workers with a university degree, who are presumptionally better placed on the labour market than those who do not have, are 21% the rate of women's unemployment today in Greece, compared to 12%, which is the equivalent of male graduates. It shows, however, the evidence of the possibility for women to have access to prevention. Data from the prefix on breast cancer have already been heard. I want to come back. Only 6% of Greek women are looking for breast cancer prevention compared with 60% of European women. This is not only about us women, who often neglect ourselves - because this is a stereotype, ladies and gentlemen, and that is something we need to take down - but it has to do with the ability of the state to provide timely information, awareness and, of course, the possibility. But there are free opportunities today, which women must go to mastography, but there must be more and we must work together on it. On the other hand, I will return to the closure of my speech, which is why after giving the data for the PPP test, 30% of the Greeks are doing the Papanikolaou test regularly, and that is as compared to 85% of the Scandinavian countries and 0% of the third countries. Are we happy? Of course not. So what are the obstacles? What do we have in front of us? And because institutional safeguards, as I have said, are not enough, the obstacles are twice as heavy. I agree with Mrs Ahtsoglou about double weights, with the difference that these burdens have become more of the times of the crisis, but there have been even before in our grandmothers a lot more. We've always had double weights. Those rural women who were working and caring for the house. The woman's double obligation exists and exists. Gloria Steiner, a prominent American feminist fighter, wondered, and let's ask ourselves here. Have we ever seen any man ask for advice on how he's going to combine marriage and career, marriage and working life, marriage and part-time? Of course not. So what we have in front of us is those childcare structures, those care structures for the elderly to raise them, to increase them. They began to grow in the late 1990s. We need to have a lot more, our goal is 90% of infants to get covered. In conclusion, I would like to make a proposal. Perhaps it is good - and I am addressing the Bureau - for these anniversary events that are taking place, there are some conclusions to be drawn. For our part, as Democratic Integration, we are proposing to work together on all parties, with the aim of increasing childcare and child care structures, increasing the protection structures of the elderly and, thirdly, of raising the awareness of women on prevention issues. I think that, within the Committee on Social Affairs and the Committee on Gender Equality, we can have joint conclusions and joint action. The problems are many, the women's issue is not a gender issue, but it is a matter of humanity and every place separately. In conclusion, I would like to convey the greeting of the leader of the Democratic Incorporation, Mr Fofis Gennimata, who is currently in Brussels at the head of the Socialist leaders. There is a battle for the issue of austerity. Among many men, she also fights. And I would like to say that it is very important that women who are in power do not display male standards, but that we keep the female model as an alternative to power, which has little to do with sterile controversy and much to do with the substance of social cohesion, the possibility of recovery not as men mean, but as we women mean. So we need both sexes in politically balanced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u11	Please respect the time, because at 12.30 p.m. it begins in the Senate Hall and another event. The floor is from the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mrs Eleni Zarulia, MP for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u12	Madam President, I want time like the previous one. Thank you. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] And because there was talk of right-wing racism, I have to say that. There is also left-wing, progressive, liberal racism and even to the detriment of Greek women by the coexistence of SYRIZA with the ANELs. We read that Greek women who are taxed fiercely and especially if they are multiples must pay for the topography, at the same time as foreign - Islamists mostly - this examination is free of charge. You're gentlemen, anti-racist professionally, inexorably paid! And I'm going to submit this report on the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Eleni Zaroulia, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Really how oxime it sounds, by an Islamist struggling is supposed to better the woman in society, when you themselves wear the handkerchief, which we all know very well what that means! All the Greek people have seen you do this! Today's speech is not to honour World Women's Day, which has been set - as in all the world days - to create a manipulation cloak on the altar of profit and ideological exploitation. The world days are - as we all understand - one of the aids of the isopodist society, which promotes false values, away from any national, traditional and authentic ones. On the contrary, in the philosophy of the International Women's Day promoted by the new order of things, today we will analyse from this step, the reasons why the woman from the guardian of national traditional societies has lost her physical role and is brought along by a modern model, which is in no way consistent with its true physical status. It is well known to all of us that the mentors of capitalist development have managed to alter the role of women in Western national societies already from the industrial revolution, a revolution in which the feminist movement has been incubated and developed, through which women are emancipated through their work and her rights. Maybe someone's gonna ask what's wrong with all this. The bad promotion of the woman in claiming a right to work has to do with the fact that her guides wanted to get the woman out of her natural role, which was to raise the children and exploit her on the altar of profit as a cheap workforce. It was a deliberate and advantageous move for the almighty capitalist interests, while at the same time the Marxist ideological manifes pushed the woman into her supposed liberation through work and the dislocation of the marital yoke, after rights were promoted, who made her move away from her traditional position in society to seek new emancipation paths. Capitalism, then, and Marxism at the time, hit a crucial blow to nature's role in women. And as a result, this blow has had a correspondingly harmful effect on the main institution supported by a national state, the family. The family and the role of the woman - mother within it was for traditional societies the guardian of the right rearing of children. This upbringing was carried out without pressure in the family home according to the ideals, traditions and moral values of the nation and the popular community. It should be stressed that ancient Greek women were not unwritten at all, as it is likely to be implied by the rajadian type of propaganda of many modern historians. On the contrary, they lived with dignity and respect as wives and mothers, taking knowledge of writing and reading, lyric and epic poetry until the twelfth year of their age, while until the 20th they received education from their mothers in home management, textiles, crafts and decoration, while the girls of the most prosperous families studied music, guitar and orgy. There was also a multitude of schools that accepted women as students, such as the mathematical school of Pythagora in which Theanos, Theoclesia, Asclipilia, Melissa and many others were found. Also, in medical schools, Agnodiki, Hermione, Fimila and Cleopatra were distinguished as a student of Galen. The University of Epicuros had students, the most famous being Anthy and Leonti, while the Platonic Academy saved the names of Lasthea and Athea. What has also been little projected in history for the woman’s prominent role in antiquity is her participation in the worshiping ceremonies and even in duties of priesthood, prestige, mysterious and priesthood. Also today we know little about women's celebrations, some of which were Anthesforos, Heraia, the women's Olympic Games, Mysia, Thyia, Karyateia and many others. Women in ancient Greece, in contrast to the prevailing impression given by a portion of historians, had social and adorable rights to civil life, with the exception of the right to vote, the conquest of which is relatively recent and the result of social and economic reclassifications in the history of modern societies. In this journey to the high offer of Greece in the history of our country, we must not omit the contribution of women during the Turkish occupation and the Revolution of 1821 in various ways either personally or through the offer of their property. Excellent forms such as Lascarina Bubulinna, Mandus Mavrogenous, Domna Vizvis and Sulliotiss with Javelina and Heido to fight on the side of their men have passed to the pantheon of heroines of history. At the same time, we cannot forget the sacrifice of women in Zalongos Suli and Arapitsa Naoussa, who, in their efforts to avoid disgrace from the Turks, have built the tree of freedom. After this journey to the value and the offer of the Greek woman, we arrive at the present time. The modern Greek worker or unemployed is trying to respond to the hard laws of the labour market, while if he has created a family, he is in an uninterrupted race with time and family obligations. The standards of modern life want her to be educated, not just to use her culture to upgrade her spiritual level but, above all, to claim better place and familiarity on the labour market, where she is confronted with competition, which has as a result the placement of careers as a result of the family and child rearing. In this context and while the years flow, Greek women are trapped in other priorities, are slow to create a family and childbirth. And when they do, they usually fail to offer the time required and the mood for the proper upbringing of children. The result of this removal of Greece from its primary role is one of the causes of demographic marism, where the birth balance against deaths has been dramatically raised in favour of deaths, making Greece a country of old age, which cannot guarantee its future biological continuity. We chrysanzees are struggling, so that our natural condition that comes through the depths of the ages, has watered the tree of the tribe and maintained the continuity of the Greek nation. We are not touched by the sirens of the worldised days, but we are touched by love for our country, which through its proud history has given us the opportunity to live in a blessed place, which, however much as they try to harm him and destroy him, is the essence of our existence. In these grim times, we chrysanzees must highlight our nature and the value of motherhood and preserve the institution of the family as it has come from natural evolution and is one of the foundations of civilization and the nation. We must be convinced of the extremist neo-pheminist isogradism to confirm the diversity of our sex that leads us to the sanctity of motherhood, and it is a pillar on which the future upbringing of our children according to national ideals and values will be based. We are proud that we are Greek women and that should not remain in the words, but it is necessary to become the source that will give our nation new impetus. We must not let the demographic turbulence and the flooding of the Muslim populations that have flooded our country to destroy us. We must correct, strong and with a sense of duty to awaken other Greek women and awaken their sleeping national reflexes. This struggle is difficult, but it is worth our effort to be worthy of our glorious history, of the nation that it once grew up, and now it is dragging a chariot of unworthy ceremonies on a path of cultural, spiritual, moral and biological surfing. We Hellenides of Golden Dawn resist the levelling, continue the struggle for the survival and uplift of our nation, we are proud of our origin, we vision a better tomorrow for our children and we will fight for it with all our powers. Because tomorrow belongs to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u13	Mr Konstantinos Katsikis has the floor from the Independent Greeks, MP at Attica.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u14	The JRC won't talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u15	The second round, you two. I repeat the request for time. Men are a little bit of a talk, I guess.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u16	As far as I am concerned, what you said, Madam President, is true. Minister, with your presence in the ministerial seats, ladies and gentlemen, I will repeat that 8 March is the day of the woman's worldwide celebration, one day dedicated to her personality and struggles. The day of the woman is an honor to her multiple roles as a mother, a worker, a wife, an active member of our society, as well as to her contribution to the family and society as a whole. This day is an anniversary - a symbol of the struggles, institutions and the conquests of women throughout the world. It is celebrated every year this day in memory of a great protest, as the previous colleagues have said, on 8 March 1857 by textile workers in New York, who were calling for better working conditions. The first international day of the woman was celebrated in 1909 in the United States of America, where fifteen thousand women were paralyzed in New York, demanding a better wage, less working hours, voting rights, and the abolition of child labour for children who work as workers. Women's rights are seen as the requirements for women and girls of many societies around the world and are the basis for the women's movement. Gender equality is recognised as a fundamental human right. Women's rights are part of human rights. Equality policy must enlighten all individual policies. Gender equality is a necessary treaty, so that we can talk about society with more humanity. The 20th century was positively marked by the struggles for equality of women in developed countries. Equality between men and women was surrounded by the prestige of the constitutional provision, as was the equal pay for equal work, while recognition of women's civil rights became a norm, thus allowing women to become a visible and quantifiable political force. Issues commonly linked to the concepts of women's rights are included in the right to physical integrity and autonomy, protection against sexual violence, right to vote, the possibility of taking up public office, the conclusion of legal contracts, equal treatment for family law, fair and proportionate remuneration for the work they provide. Over time, the image of women now has substantial changes. The woman previously understood herself as less dynamic and autonomous, mainly because she had to stay at home, not to work, mostly to feed children, but also to work in the house, and as a result of her personal needs coming in second place. Meerah, it was the man who had the greatest power in the family in economic terms and not just. The modern woman managed to respond to her multiple roles, the role of the wife, the mother, the worker and the householder. Confirm the website position that the woman is capable of doing everything. It is our male obligation to point out that the woman has managed to keep the delicate balances that are required between her obligations as a mother and a householder on the one hand and as a worker on the other. Modern Greek woman is considered an equal member of the family and is not in any area of her life by her husband. She reclaims her rights, works on equal terms by showing her abilities, has conquered many male-dominated positions and made promises of a better tomorrow. As far as education is concerned, it is shaped by the same rules as a man. All levels of education are accessible to it and are not very few of those that exist in universities in Greece and abroad. Therefore, the role of Greek women in today's society is complex and multidimensional, since it successfully meets the role of mother, wife, housewife and employee. It gives a lot of struggles in the family environment, in the workplace, in society, and it makes it worthwhile. Today’s work is undoubtedly more difficult than previous times. The complex role he has taken requires a lot of effort and inexhaustible powers. In closing my speech, I would like to stress that even in today's era, women are facing very serious problems. And of course I am referring to cases of violence within and outside the family, abuse, expulsion of prostitution, exploitation, unemployment, problems that are open wounds, and, unfortunately, no global day can heal them. These phenomena of shame must be stopped. And this is what we all have to contribute, but everyone, from the position that each one of us holds. It is an obligation for every society and every human being alone to honor and respect the woman, who gives every day's struggle. In expressing our gratitude and respect, we recognize the women's contribution to democracy, but also to life itself, knowing that it is at the beginning of all the great things. Happy birthday, then, to all the women in the world! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u17	The floor is now from the Centro Association, Ms Theodora Megalocon, MP for Piraeus. Mrs. Big Economics, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that the Greek Parliament is honouring the Women's Day at its Special Session on the subject: 'Requests and priorities for gender equality in a world that changes: Health, Work and Civilian Violence'. The world is changing. The position of women in all that have been conquered with so much effort and so many struggles is unfortunately being called into question directly or indirectly. And. Of course. I am not referring only to what is happening in the deeps of the East and in third world countries, where women are treated as beings without rights. I am thinking primarily of the so-called Western world, where the so-called antisystemic speech and hate rhetoric against women is becoming increasingly widespread. And we are getting to the point of somehow being a strange fashion of our time. This rhetorical hatred must be strongly disproved and with all our powers. We must leave no room, not even for alleged policing, when one refers to one person because of his gender. As paradoxical as that is what we are asking, it is a time when nothing, or almost nothing, is absolutely not self-evident. Ladies and gentlemen, in today's debate I would like to present the position of the Central Association and my personal capacity, since it happens to be the only Member of the party. It must be our priority as a Parliament and as Members of Parliament that all gender inequality should be completely eliminated in all areas, but above all in matters of health, work, access to education and employment. In fact, I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, which one of us has not dealt with this dishonest behavior because we are women? Who does not know that in the working environment the superiors in the hierarchy are men, who often treat their females under-represented, while the subordinates in the hierarchy consider them incapable of work? I've been dealing with this derogatory behavior, and I've been dealing with it as a businessman because of my sex. Of course, great improvements have been made over time in the culture and education of Greek society. Now, however, even today, it is reluctant that women are treated differently, while the unfortunate thing is that underestimating women's personality is a fact at every opportunity. Of course, the most common thing is to avoid an employer hiring a woman of childbearing age in fear that a possible pregnancy will keep her away from her professional obligations. It is unacceptable that we still have such illegal and criminal behaviour. Of course, a great and absolutely real problem today is civil violence. Women face a problem many times, even in their own homes. Although criminalized, domestic violence has room for improvements. The whole social system of protection for abused women is also open to improvements. But today must be a day of remembrance for women who have fought and a day of optimism, I think, for women today and for the future. I would like to remind everyone and all of us in memory that in Greece for the first time, women gained the full right to vote and to stand as a candidate in 1952, a date of milestone since they were even formally equalized to men in one of the last rights of democracy. Finally, at the level of optimism, we must not forget that we are the actors of every new life and thus the actors of change. Any difficulties that don't hurt us, since we're born strugglings. I would like to remind you that since antiquity the Spartan mothers have been telling their sons "or tan or on them", while the Suliotis did not hesitate to die for their homeland. The women of unforgettable homes, refugees, took all the weights of the family. The women of the Resistance fought for freedom and for desecration of the conqueror. And I would like to refer to a woman who started the fight for the return of the Parthenon marbles to Melina Mercouri. So we're born strugglings. Every woman, from any point of view, can achieve what she believes and loves. Finally, I would like to wish strength, striving and optimism for all women, because modern, multifaceted and dynamic Greek women are making everything possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, too, for the accuracy of time. The last speaker on the first cycle, Mr Spyridon Danellis from the river, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the finest "bread and roses" invited ten thousand women in 1908 in the streets of New York, seeking economic security, better quality of life with fewer hours of work, better wages and, of course, the right to vote. At least eight years later, on March 8, 2017, celebrating World Women's Day, many will argue that those demands have been won and satisfied, at least in developed countries. But if the future of the man is the woman, as Louis Aragon said, then I have to admit that reality in the modern world, not only does not confirm this naive view, but requires many more struggles so that this future will take the place it really deserves. Gender equality is a fundamental human right and a fundamental objective of every modern democratic state. And that means that every democratic country must work in the direction where men and women equally share the obligations and rights at work, in politics, in power, in free time, in family care and in personal life. Today, however, unequal conditions of life and work for men and women seem to deteriorate. However, the principle of gender equality should not be a luxury, but rather a key axis of the development, social, cultural and political development of a society. In the unregulated globalised environment, it is known that the weakest groups of the population are being affected more and, unfortunately, women are being overrepresented. At the bottom of the social chain is still the homosexual, unemployed immigrant. In other words, gender discrimination is interdependent and is made stronger by forms of social inequality which are related to social order, ethnic origin, disability, age, sexual preferences, etc. It is precisely these women who are more vulnerable, not only to the consequences of the circles of the economy, but also to the exercise of male violence in all its forms. And with regard to the protection of these groups of women, I fear that we have not done much, and that of course does not concern only Greek society. In the area of women's employment and entrepreneurship in a hundred and fifty-five per cent of the world's seventy-three economies are recorded in at least one legislation. The pattern of racial discrimination, which continues to exist especially in the workplace, and even in the 21st century in all the countries of the world, is reflected in the economic gap, the wage gap between women and men for equal value, the markedly reduced female presence in the labour force, professional segregation, and the inequality of working conditions. In addition, the value of women's work at home, as well as in caring for people in the family, children, children, parents, even though statistics speak about between 10% and 35% of GDP, that is to say, far above the construction, trade or transport sectors. In addition, there are examples of companies that force candidates to commit that for a long time they will not have a child. Our societies, although hypocritically acknowledging the right to maternity, ignore a number of real events. A structural right to the nature and health of women, such as motherhood, encounters exceptional problems that do not appear. But when women of developed countries get to have a child at a high age, most of the times lead to the medical unreasonable choice of Cesarean, since natural birth is not promoted through targeted state policies. Our country is a typical bad example. Women with incomplete information, mafia ballasts - because this is the term - practical term, clothed with pseudo-scientific cloaks, are led to the obligation of a caesarean choice. When the European average of Cesareans stands at 25%, our country assumes that it is going through 50%, as we do not even bother keeping official statistics on births, although this is also our international obligation, Minister. Let's not be fooled. No conquest seems solid in time. Nothing is given. It was only yesterday that it was heard many times, but it was particularly shocking, in the European Parliament, a extreme right-wing Polish MEP who fanatically supported the so-called minority of women. And she did it in the same place that a few years ago we had the special privilege of those who were there listening, before being awarded the Nobel Peace Prize, to Pakistani Malala Yousafzai with passion for supporting the right of women to education and this soon after the almost deadly injury from the Taliban, because she insisted that she had the right to learning and education. As far as racial violence is concerned, no form of violence can be accepted by a civilised society. Its most appalling forms, however, have to do with racial violence, a blatant violation of human rights with many people: sexual harassment, domestic violence, rape, feeding, female genital mutilation. The evidence is relentless. 35% of women worldwide have suffered physical or sexual violence by their partner or sexual violence by non-partners. This is a figure which does not show the scale of the problem, since few women are getting to the point of denounce the violence they are experiencing. Ladies and gentlemen, daylight is not only burning vampires, but also every form of racial violence. All in light, then, without fear, without hypocrisy and hallucinations. I do not stop reminding my teenage daughters at all times that the slightest tolerance to racial violence, fatality and mathematics will lead to her repetition. As for us, Parliament, the further institutional shield of the victim and the awareness of society through education is a one-way path. Because we are constantly forgetting Parliament's educational role in society, in our cohorts and divisions, ladies and gentlemen, we should start to control our testosterone. I close by pointing out another of Mao's many mistakes: Woman is not "half of heaven", it is the heavens whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, thirty-six students and students and two educational sessions from the 2nd General High School of Thevas (Second Chamber). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Now begins the second circle of speakers. Mr Leonidas Gregorakos, Member of the Laconia Prefecture, has the floor. Mr. Gregorakos, in the second cycle, I'll be stricter in times.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u22	You're never strict. Why would you be today?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u23	What can we do, though? We won't be dawn here. He's tired of the audience - you see he's gone - and our guests.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u24	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are pleased that you are here today. It is customary when we celebrate an anniversary, generally resorting to verbalism, in fine words, to rhetoric. For today, however, modern studies have shown that women are a leader recognised and with effective abilities. She is a born woman, by the nature of the food, she is talented, she has a ability to offer, love, support, organize, care, raise her children, her family, society. In the past, the woman had the role of an unscathed hero. Especially in an area I used to live in, in Mani, we still hold it. But today the woman's out front. He's the obvious hero of life. It cannot be overlooked, of course, that today there are millions of women in 2017 who are struggling alone under hard and inconvenient conditions to earn a living, wage, survival, access to the basic health care of the female entity, to ensure the financial soundness, comfort for their children, to participate in opportunities that should be available to every individual in Europe, in the world and in Greece of the crisis. It is our duty as ever to draw attention as a society to the real challenges faced by the modern woman and especially the Greek woman, the woman of low income, the woman of pain, poverty, the woman of the economic crisis who lives in poverty, who struggles for her principles, for her children, for her family, for her survival, for her profession, for her education. The European Union and our national policy must change their attitude to address the challenges and problems faced by modern Greek women. As a society we all have to commit, and more so, politicians and Parliament with an incentive, firstly, to restoring and raising the role of the Greek woman in the European Community and secondly, to the struggle and the right for all women to enjoy equal opportunities and opportunities in modern European society. In a fair and safe world, power and ability should not be restricted by sex, race, class, religion, eye color, skin color, nationality, disability, age, sexual orientation. In all societies and cultures, all citizens of independent sex should enjoy the same opportunities and opportunities for development, development, education, security, education, health and protection. This is, moreover, the cornerstone of real democracy, in which the value and dignity of each individual is appreciated. Ladies and gentlemen, the introduction of the Women's Day is an anniversary that has become 'done' - and I say this very respectfully - to remind us today of the imbalance in the parity that occurs in many developed and underdeveloped countries. In modern societies, the degree of gender equality is an indicator of culture, progress and development. It's a humanization criterion of quality and living conditions. It is a measure of democracy and respect for human existence. In fact, it shows us the modernisation of a state and the deep social, economic and even political delay. After the Transmigration - in ours - the Greeks have won important rights at the purely institutional level. Let me remind you - why we must not forget that, because we must also live with our history - only the change made by the governments after 1980, modernising an anachronistic and phantomical family law at the beginning of 1980. It was a great intersection that protected the female situation, restored the dignity of the female sex, created conditions for equal participation in the private and public sphere. I mention this because in today's atmosphere, in the atmosphere of the crisis, there are few people who are leveling the great conquests that we have achieved as a country and as a society in post-government years. Between the past and the future there is, ladies and gentlemen, the present. [[At this point, the Honourable Member's speech bell is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. Hence, we are always obliged to stand in this, to face up to the problems that exist, to look for choices and solutions that will strengthen the role of women, to ease the distance between the two sexes, and above all, to enable men and women to move at the same speed. The general statements are no longer in response to today, nor are they offered to create a specific policy, which will give women a vital place, in all the manifestations of her life, in her family, in motherhood, in her personal life, in employment, in her social and political action. Therefore, speaking today on an anniversary day, we must be specific, putting forward positions and proposals on the major problem of gender equality. In Greece of the crisis, women experience its consequences in the most intense way. Women's unemployment is growing happily. The new job seekers find closed doors. Many, in fact, with considerable university studies, resort to immigration, while others are forced to work under extreme conditions. For example, the wage disparities between the two sexes in the private sector in Greece have taken acute proportions. The Polish MEP - and I am ending my speech - Janus Korvin - Mique, a right-wing politician and writer, in a position recently taken by the European Parliament he has said in a unstable and perfectly normal manner - that our colleagues have accepted it from below - that of course women should not be paid the same as men in their work, in the European Union of cultures. "They are weaker, smaller and less intelligent and they must win less. That's all". Then sit back in his place smiling and willing, without anyone speaking to him. The sexist MEP based his opinion on the fact that there is no woman among the hundred best chessers in the world. That was the excuse. During my term of office at the Ministry of Interior I was honoured - and I thank many of the ladies, who are here today - to be responsible for the General Secretariat of Gender Equality. I had an excellent collaboration with them, with all the resources of the Ministry and we tried together to highlight the wage inequalities that existed and exist in Greece. Unfortunately, we did not have time to do what we wanted to do. We've done enough. Ladies and gentlemen, we all have to realise the deficit in parity, which is strong in our country, and it is vital to tackle it. Good and beautiful are all we say and the demonstration of sensitivity from all of us for women. However, we are all judged in practice and above all by harmony of words and works. Happy birthday to you!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u25	Mrs Antoniou, Member of the Kastoria Prefecture, from New Democracy, has the floor now. Mrs. Antoniou, you have six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Madam President, for many years! Ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of the heroic uprising of women who worked at the textile factories in New York on 8 March 1857, the UN declared 8 March 1977 as World Women's Rights Day. The woman may be the “half of heaven”, but she is also the vehicle of life. So added another day of celebration to the calendar. Allost, uh, there are so many more, we often celebrate them two or two. It is another "hard" day of celebration, which brings society out of "commitment" and at the same time rather comes to cover the existing inequality and still problems. The World Day for Women and their Rights, as established by the UN, but cannot be a holiday day. It must be a day of memory and honor for the struggles that have taken place so far and at the same time, it must be a day of grief and thought about what women are still suffering today, at all the lengths and backs of the earth. Over time, the female sex certainly won and won battles. With many sacrifices, he proclaimed and achieved better working conditions, equal rights for men, even this self-evident right to vote. Today, of course, 1857 is far away. Many things have improved. The circumstances have changed. After all, many women who are Heads of State today, the many women who are in top positions - today we have the honour of having some of them in Parliament's Chamber - public and private bodies, private enterprises, the same ones, which we can speak today in the Greek Parliament. But all this, ladies and gentlemen, is not enough to be the 8th day of the celebration, since gender equality is still more typical than essential. Even today, often the fate of the woman is determined by the world’s fate to be born. Even today, there are girls in some countries who are subjected to genital mutilation - it was said by many colleagues - girls who are being prostituted from an early age, with the aid of drugs and then sold as pleasure utensils in so-called 'cultural' countries. Violence against women - particularly domestic - is still a global phenomenon nowadays, which is often encouraged. In workplaces, women are getting worse, at risk of dismissal, if they want to give birth, and at times they face strange appetites of men's sex. The same figures, ladies and gentlemen, are relentless. According to the UN, about 70% of the poor and illiterate adults are women, images that in many seem very distant, but believe me, happen next door, at our door. Of course, we must not forget the position of women in many Islamic countries. In our country, Greece over 60% of the new Greek women have been left unworked, with official figures, while those who work, receive at least 20% less than men. Especially today, in view of the deep economic crisis, women are the most vulnerable part of the population. The new Greek women are either unemployed or underemployed and often uninsured. All the above suggests that March 8th must be a vindication day to make much more left to do. No commemoration, no law can oblige anyone to respect women, like men, to realize that women cannot be the same as men, but must be equal. There are many prejudices and any social and economic interests and stereotypes that need to be defeated. It is, however, first and foremost, a matter of our own women's own, which, in our passive attitude, often put water on the mill of prejudice and inequality and which, obviously, the establishment or functioning of a General Secretariat of Equality is not enough to solve the problems. Ladies and gentlemen, for all of us women, particularly in today's difficult and demanding era, it is more necessary than ever to unite and claim. The struggles and victories of all women over the centuries, workers or scientists, educated or amortized, workers or unemployed, but who have always been the mothers who have had the advantage of life, these struggles and victories of previous generations must be our example and guide. To these victories and to these women, I would like to dedicate the few words of Kostis Palamas: "Those who fear that if women are manipulated and put into the fight of life, the woman will lose her grace and poetry, they will remind me of the arguments of some people that nature will lose beauty with the railways and culture. And what is the turn and passage of a railroad to the ends of the natural world around it? I let one say that a train also enriches nature with beauty. Analogous to the fears of the handmade woman, they look romantic to me. Even though women are restored, in all equals to the man, the woman, the eternal “female” of the poet, is not lost. He will always live, live and shave." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u27	Mrs Vlachos, Member of the Golden Dawn from the Halkidiki Prefecture, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u28	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, 8 March today and we celebrate the day of the woman, a celebration which was institutionalised in a so-called left-wing memory. But no one thought that Greece and the Greek nation need such neo-liberal celebrations, because they are in our culture, in our blood, in our understanding of life, respect and daily pricing in the face of women. This comes from our ancestor tradition. In no other city of the known ancient world women enjoyed the same freedom and social status as Sparta women. Only in Sparta had economic power and influence. Sports and education was a priority, contrary to other cities, where most women were completely unwritten. They were dynamic, on a public basis, which they did not hesitate to express, even when it was contrary to the opinion of their spouses. The authorities had a key role in society and it was that of the wife and mother. They enjoyed privileges that were scandalous for the entire ancient world. These must be an example of all future generations. The same approach is being taken by women in the nationalist nations in Europe much later, and as much as some are trying to distort the truth, history disguises them. The neotaxites, in order to alter the institution of the family as a foundation for the maintenance of the nations, turn against traditional institutions and present another picture of the woman, supposedly independent and self-defense. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] The first necessary strong foundations for maintaining and guaranteeing the future existence of a nation are built through the family, through the roles of parents, especially women - mother. Corrosion by so-called progressive current, the role of the two sexes is one of the most effective weapons of these strategic designs, a weapon of demolition of everything. In all nationalist societies, women have a unique place. They are the driving force, the mother of the nation, who assumes a leading role in teaching and creating social responsibility and national consciousness, giving over to the new generations of Greeks. It undertakes to overthrow the modern decay status quo and its place to establish a new lifestyle, a new biotheory. Its most important task is to improve its personality so that it can offer the whole. Thus, cultivating her own philosophy and feeling of the nation’s reasoning through her empire, she establishes her role as a radical and revolutionary, as she opposes all forms of spiritual sepsis and physical decline, which is evident in modern society. Discrimination in all areas of women's social and personal life shows even more contrast with women in the past. Women were the Spartans who farewell to their men in the words "or tan or on" before they left for the battles, wanting to highlight their national debt. This shows the courage with which the ancient Greek women, as husbands or mothers, faced the prospect of losing their husband or son for the sake of the patron. Women were also Sulliotis, who, beyond the household, took part in war operations, and when the circumstances demanded it, without second thought, were thrown into battle. Zaloggos' dance is an eternal symbol for the woman who prefers death to dishonesty and misery, the heroine woman, sacrificed for herself and her children, and farewell to sweet life. Women were Pindu's women at the patron war against the enemy. They gave theirs present on the front line. Their offer is countless, spontaneous and self-indulgence. They formed endless whales loaded with ammunition, weapons and food and carrying wounded. Women and husbands, mothers and sisters of missing persons in Cyprus, who so far expect to know what happened to their loved ones. However, nowadays, I'm afraid we're going back to days when societies treated women as things. The very equilibrium and feminist concept may have to worry about whether and whether or not it negatively affects the position of women, whether or not it leads to the collapse of society. They crush the working and social rights of citizens and women in particular. They are curtailed wages, maternity allowances. Thousands of women work daily, while those still working, are subject to exhaustive hours and are sometimes mistreated by employers. Young people and young people are being driven into immigration. Depression prevails. Women are deprived of the possibility of creating a family, and in a few years' time Greece will be a country of old age. Nowadays, therefore, women must start from the beginning, claiming equality, equality, work, life, under human conditions. Because the recognition of women as an equal member of society enshrines it, not full-fledged laws, but continuous struggles at work, at home, at home, at home, in religion, in time values, which shielded their struggles. So, keeping in mind and in our hearts the great social role played by the woman in Greece, in all the moments of her history, let us also stand up, let us continue to work with courage and boldness for a free and better Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Vlacho. We move on to Mrs Diamanto Manolakou, Parliamentary of the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u30	Since its establishment about a hundred years ago, the Communist Party of Greece, throughout its activities, has always had the focus of women's equality - and it is proud of it - when the other political forces remember her every 8 of March and the rest of the time promote legislation, in the name of equality, working relationships "lady", increased retirement years, difficulties, until the abolition of maternity benefits, even tolerance to redundancies of pregnant women for profit. This shows that the fight for women's equality is a struggle for the elimination of human exploitation. That is why we identify him with the struggle for total liberation from the exploitation of men and women. This is confirmed by the historical experience of the international labour movement, such as tailor-made workers in New York, as well as by the class movement in our country. The examples of pioneering women, who have conflicted with anachronistic views of the position of women in society, many. From the struggles for participation of women in the labour and rural movement in the 1920s and 1930s, with peaks in May 1936 and later in the EAM-ELAS, in the Republican Army of Greece. However, the road that opened wide for equality and emancipation of women was socialist power. And her position was incomparably superior to the most developed capitalist society today. Social infrastructure, with free state nurseries, health services, education, camps, restaurants in factories and schools and so many others, relieved the woman from the heavy and indifferent jobs of the individual household, created conditions of equal participation, exploiting women's work productively and beneficially in social and economic activity, together with measures to protect motherhood and the female organisation. We mention them, because this experience needs to be exploited specifically today, a period of capitalist economic crisis, where new forms of women's inequality are exacerbated, regressive, conservative views of its role in society and its rights are reproduced and strengthened. They were heard today in this Chamber too. New irrational, unscientific theories are developed for the causes of female inequality, invested in the cloak of progression. Moreover, the broken working hours and flexible working relationships, which exist here in the House, in women working in cleanliness and today, as in the previous days, came in the morning and left, to return this afternoon, contribute to the intensification of work for the employees, burdening the women's organization and embracing the working organisation, as well as the non-working time, which mothers usually devote to the family. Although the great increase in labour productivity makes it realistic to reduce working time, guaranteeing all permanent and stable jobs, increasing wages, improving working and living conditions, raising living standards, but is hampered by the dominant economic, social, political, relations, since the conquest of women's equality requires only state, free social services of education, health, welfare, with emphasis on women's particular biological needs, due to its role in the reproductive process. In practice, the social protection of maternity and the possibilities for creative exploitation of its free time in all its fields of action and relationships with the child must be ensured. The motherhood and participation of women in social reproduction, as an employed worker, are practically in contrast to capitalism. As long as collective, social rights are an individual, family assumption, as long as the working people's needs are crushed in the millstones of capitalist competition, the maximum capitalist profit, the double suppression of women in every area of social, economic and cultural life will remain. Therefore, women of the land's populaces are organized and united with the class labor movement, ruptured and overthrowded capitalist barbarism. Thus, there is a hope to get rid of unemployment, misery, labour misleading, intensification of work, stress, life with obligations, but without rights. So you give way to your expectations.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u31	Thank you to Mrs Diamanto Manolakos, Parliamentary 2nd Piraeus Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Greece. MEP II of the Greek Parliamentary Group of Independent Greeks Mrs Athanasios Papachristopoulos has the floor. Here, Mr. Papachristopoulos, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. I'd like to relax a little bit today. There is overcapacity of hard controversy, analyses, etc. I would like to say that years ago, I was surprised when a group of doctors from Kentucky fought - and I would like to remind you that in many African countries they are members of AIDS - an investigation that has been made about an alternative proposal to the prevention of AIDS, which is the condom - is not my issue now - and we need a large number of women to work together on chemical microbicides - which is not deterrent to a man who has no education, that he can get his wife stuck in - that we have found a terriblely good ground for women who have no education. But it was so instinctively important that they participated in reproduction, which, in fact, the doctors, whom I belonged to, found the right ground for black women, who I don't know what discipline they had. There, first of all, let me tell you that they have nothing to eat, they have nothing to eat. Not only do they buy a condom, they have nothing. Our research has been to prove that the alternative proposal was a chemical microbicide, which is already being used in several states of America, in Denmark, etc. and to do an in vivo investigation, that is, a live example, to see if the relapses to AIDS institutions were the same as the condom or this. So we found fertile ground in women very serious, very good, that their men dived, put them down and nursed. A second example, I've lived as a doctor is when I went to see a man who had a stroke and for twelve years he was almost paralyzed and swinging only his eyes. I found an elderly woman, about seventy-five, with a smile on her lips, who said to me: 'My doctor, we're good.' She knew almost everything, like how her husband wouldn't get flooded, etc. That's a great impression. I was looking at a woman who, for twelve years, did this thing and hadn't been bored. I asked her and she said, "You didn't understand well. With this man I have four children." He was living it, that is, what he did. I am referring to them as examples, because I do not believe that we need to look at the role of women now. I believe that, within the word 'human rights', the woman is loaded, she does not have a few more. So what a poor man has, an unemployed person - I'm sorry to say it - doesn't have a woman anymore. But I want to get a little out of this. I could remind you of what happens every day in the trash cans in the provinces of China. For those who don't know about it, they have a right to have a child. If the child is born a girl, I'm sorry to say it, there's something terrible going on. There are criminal acts, and we find girls, because they don't offer the country's economy. In the villages, the father's still bragging because he gave birth to a boy. I want to believe that we are living in a country, in Greece, which is really progressing and I think that the woman has largely escaped. He's gone away, and I say positive. I want to see another side, though. I remember when we were schoolchildren, the best class student was a very nice girl. The whole class was almost in love with her. We never succeeded in conquering it, but it was an incentive to read from morning to night. And at a graduate party, I told her "you saved us". It was the first time that we felt rejection. We've learned that it's not just the family who gets to pet your ass, etc. There's a hard factor there, big. I'm saying this and it's not too much, because I think the world would be much worse, criminally worse if it wasn't for the female sex. What can we do? That's the reality. I think that's beyond parties, ideologies. He's over it. I think for those of us who really live, it's an incentive for us to have a relationship with the other sex. Whether it's qualitatively uploaded or not, let's see it. However, even the most certainly is, let us say, an untrained citizen, somewhere he invests in the other sex, in the woman, namely, in this case, which concerns us, and I think this is very helpful. I worked in the Evangelism for thirty - seven years and was rocky when we knew we would have women. I'm telling you, honestly. No, it's not right. It's not right! So, what's the woman in pregnancy? You're throwing her away? Of course not! I think there is still a great deal to be done in these areas. We saw the women half-eyed. Oh, no. I don't want to say any more. I'm finishing up and saying I don't think the woman needs special protection. I've known women who I consider to be my superior spiritually and have earned too much of them, and I've already said it. I think, however, that it is time-consuming - not one day a year - the effort we need to make. I still think it'd be a lot worse for the world if what's called a woman wasn't there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr. Papachristopoulos. Members of the Athens Parliamentary Group, Mr Marios Georgiadis, speak for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u34	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, even today, as unbelievable as it may sound, the role of women has not been fully restored and the so-called remnants of so many centuries of discrimination and oppression have not been eliminated. In many countries, we see that women's participation in politics, public life, but even in business, is relatively limited. In so-called decision-making centres, it is extremely small. In fact, these days it has been reported that, according to some data from the World Economic Forum, it is likely that another hundred and seventy years will take until there is an absolute economic equality between men and women. As for our country, I had the impression that, despite the many problems that have been - and perhaps still exist today - the wages for work and the procedures for the elimination of inequalities have been much faster, and our society has shown for decades the necessary maturity. I cannot explain, however, how, in the 2016 Global Gap relative ranking of the 2016 Global Gap index, Greece is at very low positions in all individual indicators. I am referring to economic participation, I am referring to opportunities, to education, health and political strengthening of women. We are now pre-elected in Europe and ninety-seconds in the world and even much less than third-world countries such as Burundi, Zimbabwe or Lesotho, and most importantly, we are much lower than where we were ten years ago in 2006. It is also necessary to remember the darkest times of bias and devaluation of female sex. And you see that in time it is not too far from today. Only on May 28, 1952, n. 2159 ensures the right of women to vote in municipal elections. A few months later in Thessaloniki, the first female MP will be elected in the history of Greece, the legalist Helen Scoura, with the order of the Greek Alarm. To reach the point of achieving equality, long-term adventures of women's rights have taken precedence. In 1844 during the first National Assembly and the vote of the first Greek Constitution, Article 3 said that Greeks are equal before the law, without any reference being made to Greek women. In fact, the right to vote was considered necessary for several decades later, where in 1921 the then Prime Minister Dimitris Gounaris proposed that Parliament should have the right to vote and that was guaranteed after nine years, in 1930, by a presidential decree. Again then there were restrictions and age-olds, but also educators, so that only a few hundred women come to the polls. Equality, however, does not mean that the two sexes are completely equalised. The woman continues to be the timeless driving force of culture with its own special features leading humanity to the greatest achievements. Let's look back a little further in the history of human creation. For the woman the most beautiful poems are still written, to paint the most beautiful paintings, to speak the most excellent sculptures. Good Helen will continue to trigger conflicts and conflicts in all areas, in all branches, at all times. Men will continue to seek their confirmation after the conquest of a beautiful and intelligent woman. These differences are not inequality. It's natural and cosmic harmony. The woman will still be the individualization of the genetic creators of nature, those creators who invite Hades to grab Persephone to bring the winter into the world of the living, those forces that lead Poseidon to grab the priesthood of Athena, Medusa, into its beauty. But beware, the court of the gods must no longer be indebted to Poseidon and condemn Medusa to eternal isolation and disgusting, as was then, in the mythology of the time. Then we had gods and heroes. Today, the secular power of the Greek Parliament must lift any pathogens due to the unjust treatment of women, restore order and organize a state of equality. What we are called upon to do as politicians in this Chamber is to legislate taking into account man, regardless of sex, sexual orientation or any other intrinsic trait. That means culture, that means anthropocentricism. When we get out of this Chamber and look at the Parthenon, we will imagine him integer, shine there proud, symbolizing the supreme glamour of Athenian democracy. We all know Ikino and Kallikratis who designed him, we all know Phidia with his imposing statue, Pericles who gave the order of erect. But what we always have to remember is that behind all of this is an Inspiracy. British scholar Lawrence Darrell reminds us that a woman can either love her or suffer for her sake or turn her into literature. As a whole, culture is based on women, beauty, innate skills and their emotional world. When we find it difficult for a woman to live in the modern world, we put obstacles to the whole culture. Ladies and gentlemen, infinite words have been spoken about women and rightly so. I, too, will rightly be tempted to repeat - and I will close with this - the words of Mark Twain, who I believe fully describe this beautiful creature: 'Save lies where Eve is.' Happy birthday, then, to all women, especially to those who have birthdays today, and thank you for being here and looking after our lives! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u35	Thank you for Mr Mario Georgiadis. The last speaker for today's sitting is the Attica MEP of the Parliamentary Group Potami Georgios Mavrotas. Mr. Black, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u36	Thank you very much, Mr President. Today is Women's Day, to remind us of what we should not forget in the remaining sixty-four days of the year. Today we see women almost everywhere, even in the last male fortresses, whether in politics, business or even in the Armed Forces. But it wasn't always like that. They have not always been able to work, to be sported, to vote, to be domiciled, to participate in the decision-making centres. They needed races to conquer it. Their work and their lives were at home to raise children. Now, without abandoning these duties, they have been charged with much more. They have more freedom in their lives, but much more trouble to pursue their expectations. So there, where the woman had a criterion, a life goal, the family, now has multiple and conflicting goals: careers, family, personal integration. They are criteria which must be balanced and that is not easy at all. Even more so, if we give the basis to the various standards that flood us in televisions and magazines, showing the beautiful, happy housewife, mother, wife, businesswoman. All of this in one’s packaging, building an imaginary model, a fantastic model that has little to do with the reality experienced by each one, often leading them to wonder inconveniently what they don’t do well. The ideal, as far as so many criteria are concerned, is not always feasible and fortunately, because perfection often hides itself in imperfections. Centuries have been written on human genes and there it is not easy to catch the guma and the blue. They are the stereotypes that make it harder for those who choose something that does not go hand in hand with them. Career - no, it's not cholera - for a woman is most often more difficult than a man. Equal opportunities, equal pay for the same job, are still the case in many areas today. Approximately 17% is lower the average hourly pay for women than for men. Where? In the European Union in 2014. The participation of women in decision-making centres is also weak, even here in the House, which we are talking about. Look at the composition of the House. Only 18% are women, fifty-three in three hundred seats in the House. In the European Union, the average is 23%. Why? Because patriarchal stereotypes say leadership is a male case, of course, overlooking the sides of leadership where female performance is clearly superior, such as emotional intelligence, intuition, care, empathy. I wish the men had a little more than the female brain! It'd be better for us all. Let me close by saying a few words about the presence of women in places where I have passed. In the field of sport and in the academic area I have seen very dynamic women, women who dominate in their homes many times through more difficult routes than their male colleagues. I start from the field of sport where women now have an almost equal share of men: from young girls doing sport to their mothers or grandmas flooding their gyms and bravos. With regard to sports successes, just take a look at the Olympic medals that have come to our country in recent years or the recent successes we had at the Pan-European Closet Championship: Women, girls who are proud to bring the Greek flag up to Rio and to the ends of the world. For those who use extremism by saying that women and especially Greek women cannot cooperate with each other, I can remind them that the only Olympic medal we have in a team sport is from the Women's Pole National Team in 2004, the silver medal. We have no more Olympic group medal. In the academic area I met and met women of brilliant teachers, as well as researchers. Most of these, however, women who did not hesitate to put them in stateless and savage situations, which were accepted bullying for their views, but who insisted, defended them to the end. Thank you for the lessons they gave me. Apart from this, however, there is the worker who has no working hours because, apart from work, there are households and children, a job of twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week, three hundred and sixty-five days a year, overtime and overtime. There's the retired, grandma, who serves her second term in society by raising her grandchildren, because mom can't catch up with them all. There's the farmer who helps the earth stay alive. There is the refugee and immigrant who passed the Aegean Sea with her child tightened in the chest. They say that behind every successful man lies a smart woman. I would say that behind a successful society many skilled women hide in critical posts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr. George Mavrotas, MP from the river. Ladies and gentlemen, the special sitting of the House on the subject was concluded: 'Requests and priorities for gender equality in a changing world: Health, Work and Civil Violence'. I would like to inform you at this point that the Senate Hall is already holding an event under the organization of the Parliamentary Foundation for Parliamentarianism and Democracy and in the presence of the President of the Parliament, Nicholas Voutsis, dedicated to Ellie Lambridis, the education, writer and philosopher who has been the protagonists of women's rights. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent debate on Thursday 9 March 2017. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 553/3-2017 by MP Heraklion, New Democracy, Eleftherios Aygenakis, Minister for the Interior, on the problem of road accidents, the strengthening of traffic education and the better implementation of the Road Traffic Code (K.O.K.) 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The current question by MP Attica of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, about the unprecedented delay in the awarding of new pensions. 3. The question asked by MP Kilkis of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Hadjisavvas to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport about the irrational divestment of the profitable Egnatia Road SA. 4. The 550/1-3-2017 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport about the existence of only four (4) speed radars in the country's national network. 5. The Question No 552/3-2017 by Z' Vice President of the Parliament and Mr Spyridon Lykoudis to the Minister of Health about the degraded state of health. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 554/3-2017 by MP Kilkis of New Democracy Mr Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgiodas to the Minister of Culture and Sport on the design for the abolition of the Antiquities Literature Kilkis. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under No 557/6-3-2017, a topical question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMARK KEGEROLOU to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the intentions of the Ministry to amend Article 20 of Law No.4387/2016 on the reduction of pensions even for minimum agricultural income and suspension of pension payments for hereditary self-government. 3. The Question No 556-6-3-2017 by Congressman of Athens, Mr. Georgios Amyras, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the taking over by the Greek State of the outstanding loan contract of the Athens Concert Hall (OMMA). 4. The 527/24-2-2017 topical question by MP Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Stavros Tassos to the Minister of Health, about Tilos' Polypowerful Regional Medicine. 5. - The 525/24-2-2017 topical question by MP Ioannina of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Christos Mantas to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, about the recognitions of the Interdisciplinary Organisation for the Recognition of Academic and Information Titles (IDATAP) to graduates from private universities in Cyprus and Italy and the partnerships with our Country's Higher Education Institutions. 6. The current question by MP Elias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Finance, concerning the silence of Mr. Tsakalotos and the government's commitments. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question asked by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn by Helen Zarulia to the Minister of the Interior about the terrorist attack with kalashnikov against men of MS. 8. The question asked by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy about the transfer of PPC's users to companies of alternative electricity providers. 9. The Question No 467/10-2-2017 by Evia MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Michou to the Minister of Health, concerning the deliberate improper fulfilment of a covenant that provides for the establishment of an oncological clinic in Chalkida. 10. The question asked by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panagiotarou to the Minister of the Interior about the resurrected action of Turkish agents and their representatives in Thrace. 11. The Question No 435/2-2-2017 by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Helen Zarulia to the Minister of Finance regarding the appointment of a judge to the administration of the Supreme Treasury. 12. The 367/20-1-2017 topical question by MP Evia of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Michou to the Minister of the Interior, on the unacceptable displacement of thirty-six thousand seven hundred sixty-sixty-sixteen Greek children from day-care stations. 13. Observations of the Court of Justice Under number 338/13-1-2017, a topical question by MP I Piraeus of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the prospects for the residence of the twenty-eight islands that upgrades Greek sovereignty and strengthens the sovereign rights of the country. 14. Observed. The question by No 430/31-1-2017 of the Greek Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Georgios Arvanitidis to the Minister of the Interior about the significant reduction of firepower in the Regional Unit of Thessaloniki. 15. The Question No 333/12-1-2017 by MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information on the financing of journalists and websites. 16. Observations of the Committee of the Regions The 439/6-2-2017 topical question by MP V' Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance regarding the transfer of PPC's users to companies of alternative electricity providers. 17. The question raised by Mr Georgios Amyras at number 498/20-2-2017 about the 'SIEMENS' case. 18. The question asked by MP Attica of the Democratic Integration PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the suspension of the insurance law on blocks, until the injustices caused by its distorting application have been lifted. 19. The question by No. 402/27-1-2017, by MEP I Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Health, concerning the reduction of the cost of diagnostic tests for breast cancer. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No. 1481/24-11-2016 question by MP II of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Georgios Diaras to the Minister of Health, concerning the complaints of high rates of Cesarean in Greece without medical justification. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Question No 2787/23-1-2017 by Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, Vice-President of Parliament, and Member of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the management and exploitation of the real estate of the Ministries of Health and Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity. 3. The question by No 446/18-10-2016 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassiliou Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the serious problems faced by farmers. 4. The question asked by MP Laconia of New Democracy Mr Athanasios Davakis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy about the flooding of the Laconia Prefecture. Ladies and gentlemen, we will be adjourning the sitting for a few minutes, and then we will continue with legislative work.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK A sole debate and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food: 'Under the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on cooperation in agriculture'. The draft was adopted by a majority in the Standing Committee. It is introduced to the House under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure. In other words, those who object to the ratification of this agreement may take the floor. However, because four amendments have been tabled, one ministerial, one with number 947/62 and three with three MEPs, 943/60 and 944/61 with the same content, as well as 948/63, I propose that Mrs Zaroulia be put at the start of the agreement by the People's Association - Golden Dawn, as the Golden Dawn had voted against the agreement, and Mr Moraite from the JRC, for the same reason, and then the Minister responsible for five minutes. After this process, I propose that the amendments be discussed together and that the Parliamentary representatives, the rapporteurs and the special speakers - those who wish to speak - and the Minister responsible, each for five minutes, should speak. In addition, to those who have signed amendments, they will be given the opportunity to be placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u39	Will we know what amendments are accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u40	Yes, we will hear that from the Minister. As soon as Mrs Zaroulia and Mr Moraitis are placed, the Minister will say which amendments are accepted. Does the House agree with the procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u41	The House therefore agreed. Mrs Zaroulia has the floor for five minutes to place herself at the beginning of the agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr President. Bilateral relations between the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Azerbaijan have been officially initiated since 1992. In 2014, the President of the Republic of Azerbaijan was accompanied by the Foreign Minister of the country, who signed with the then Minister of Foreign Affairs Evangelos Venizelos a memorandum of cooperation on European Union matters and a cooperation agreement in the field of agriculture and youth. However, it is not the only agreements signed on the coexistence of a new Republic - PASOK. On the contrary, agreements were signed that did not guarantee the maximum benefit for the Greek people and the Greek nation. So today, three years later, we are considering the ratification of the agricultural cooperation agreement. Before I refer to ratification, I would like to dwell on the introductory note both in the explanatory statement and in the ratification. Why is it that a bilateral cooperation agreement particularly concerned with the fulfilment of Greece's obligations towards the European Union? Has there been any recommendation from the European Commission that calls for or is there any interest at stake in Greece, and this note is a bell reminding us of the obligations imposed on us with regard to the European Union? It is a given and accepted what the Minister said at the committee meeting. We are part of the European Union, and it makes sense for ourselves and for the countries with which we agree to respect the procedures followed in the European Union. But it's the second penalty in a few days that comes with this note and puts us in thought. With regard to ratification for the content of the agreement, we have been detailed in committee. Some remarks: Greece's foreign policy is known to be based on respect for international law and on commitment to the principles of good neighbourliness. This must be achieved over a period of time and not by chance or selective, always in the national interest. The European Union has established the European Neighbourhood Policy. On the basis of this policy development, bilateral partnership and cooperation agreements have been concluded between the countries concerned and the European Union, on the basis of which they have undertaken to defend common values and promote the market economy, sustainable development and reduce poverty. The European Union, for its part, provides financial technical and macroeconomic assistance and provides a package of measures contributing to the development of these countries. In this way, then, the financial resources of the European Union will be found for a country that does not belong to it. From there on, who are the international organisations which will ensure funding? What are the specific programmes through which the instruments for implementing cooperation will be financed? If a candidate is the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, then we must say that this bank had expressed its concerns about the lack of democracy in Azerbaijan and is one of the reasons why TAP funding may be interrupted. Azerbaijan is a dynamically developing country in the southern Caucasus region. It is important that the President himself decides on the development of, among other things, the rural economy, where opportunities are sought by the relevant bodies and links for the exchange of know-how with foreign countries. This search is obviously coming to cover the present agreement with our country. The area where the Azeri want to work with us may be justified, as domestic production does not meet the needs of the population and therefore imports mainly of cereals, rice and sugar are being made, while attempting to modernise olive crops, to disseminate on the domestic market olive and olive oil products, which are currently very little involved in the food habits of the Azerbaijani population. Greece is not a major trading partner in Azerbaijan, despite the fact that its exportable products would then allow systematic efforts to enter the Azerbaijan market. At this point I would like to stress that we cannot overlook the fact that this agreement concerns only the exchange of know-how, training programmes, education and the exchange of experiences on agri-environment, land management and mapping. The only reference to the development of entrepreneurship is to encourage joint ventures between the cooperative and private sector in the two countries. The cooperation therefore concerns, as I said before, the exchange of information and know-how and not investments in the region of the Contracting Party. This is because the property regime in Azerbaijan is not allowed to buy foreign land. Therefore, cultivation is only possible through mixed enterprises with on-the-spot partners. On the other hand, this does not prevent the operators operating in Azerbaijan from using it as a gateway to Greece and from establishing their own annexes or concluding agreements. It should be noted here that 36% of the enterprises active in Azerbaijan are Turkish and even by investing $2.1 billion. So how can this agreement contribute to opening up the market, to the extroversion of agriculture-related enterprises? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. Let us now see the ambitious 'Azerbaijan 2020: Perspectives for the Future' of President Ilham Aliev. According to this, the country's financial self-sufficiency is being attempted through the development of agricultural production, the service sector, tourism, construction, new technologies, etc. Such a national plan does not seem to exist in Greece. How can there be anyway? With excessive taxation, with the forest maps that make most of the country as a forest and cancel agricultural land, with the lack of incentive to cultivate the land? Should our issues not have been resolved primarily and the agricultural sector strengthened in our country, as the primary sector is undoubtedly the real basis for the economy and then help the other country develop their respective sectors? Clearly, this agreement was geostrategically selected by the previous government, whose anti-national work continues today. But to remind you that at that time SYRIZA opposed and denounced such agreements, while accusing the government at that time of a pro-American attitude, contrary to the national interest. The fact is that Azerbaijan maintains close relations with Ankara and is an extension of Turkey. The policy of the Azerbaijani is very friendly with Turkey and in fact its state is on its satellite. We must not forget that this is a country with the attitude of a Muslim in the majority of the world, and therefore we have a negative attitude to the development of closer business relations with our country, when it is questionable whether there will be a mutual benefit from this agreement. Greece is not treated as an equal partner of Europeans, let alone the Azerbaijans. We cannot allow Turkey to enter the country by the side road. In this sense, we cannot sign any agreements and no memorandum of cooperation. That is why we are voting against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theory, since they have previously participated in the educational programme for Kapodistrias, organised by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-six students and students and two educational attendants from the 1st Eleusis High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] To inform students and students as well as teachers that they are following a debate and a bill by the Ministry of Rural Development. We shall proceed and then, after you have placed them, we shall have the vote. Mr. Nikolaos Moraitis from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. We also stressed to the committee that ratification of the Agreement between Greece and Azerbaijan is an agreement between two capitalist countries and it is an attempt to promote agriculture, particularly in the food industry, but also in other areas of plant production, such as greenhouse gases, breeding seeds, animal husbandry and animal feed. In short, this agreement opens the way for the infiltration of Greek business groups involved in food processing, in the food chain in that country. There is, of course, a friendly environment in business groups, through small energy costs, because of natural gas. Mostly, this will favour greenhouse gases, but not only. Of course, this agreement is moving in the direction of the European Union to open up markets in the wider Caspian region, aiming at markets beyond Azerbaijan. In this direction, in order to achieve the interests of capitalist enterprises operating in the country of agricultural and livestock production, they will play a crucial role, as referred to in Article 4, and the two ministries of the countries. And then you promise them that you will fight to ensure warm, free money from undoing peoples, through Europeans and other funds, as referred to in Article 3. Of course, it is revealing that Article 1 on the intentions and objectives of this agreement, since it speaks clearly about encouraging private enterprises between the two countries. You're good followers. You took the baton from the previous governments and continue the policy of serving the interests of capital. In this regard, with this agreement you implement decisions of the New Democracy and PASOK rulings, which formed this agreement in 2014, with the former Deputy Prime Minister Evangelos Venizelos. Then, of course, SYRIZA disagreed with these agreements. Now, gentlemen of the government, you call them development and extroversion agreements. This agreement, of course, also follows on from the agreement reached in 1994 aimed at promoting Azerbaijan's capitalisation, following the overturns and dismantling of the Soviet Union. In our view, such agreements between capitalist countries deepen exploitation. They are tools to pass on policies that serve the interests of monopolistic groups. The model of strengthening capitalist agricultural production is being promoted. This is the successful model by you, but also by the European Union of monopolies. For all these reasons, we are voting against the agreement between Greece and Azerbaijan. Because it is far from the interests of the poor, medium-sized farmers and, in our view, serves the capitalist rural enterprises of the two countries.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr. Moraite. The Minister for Rural Development, Mr Apostolos, has the floor to talk about the amendments, the Minister for Agriculture and Parliamentary Affairs.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u46	First of all, I will say that the Convention is being ratified. All these conventions are wishes, indeed, which, in order to be implemented, needs an effort. In this particular case, it is the transnational committee that is set up to take on a great deal of it and, if it is able to walk it, it will be for the benefit of both peoples. All the rest that has been heard is out of reality, how much more at a time when the main concern for our country is to find new outlets in its quality agricultural production. As far as the amendments are concerned, Mr President, there is one amendment tabled to the committee. I have made it clear that I cannot accept it, let alone the Ministry responsible and the Minister responsible can answer it. A number of amendments have also been tabled by Members of the New Democracy. I want to make one thing clear to you, ladies and gentlemen. Those who are talking about forest maps, the forms and uses of land should take into account Article 117 of the Constitution as a reference point. The article expressly states: "Extensions that have been disintegrated or burned, evacuated and lost their forest form are automatically declared resurrectable". So if we are talking today about how to relieve many of these areas of their compulsory forestry character, that is where they are now starting and coming up with the question of whether these areas were eligible for aid, whether these areas can offer rural activity. However, I would like to make one thing clear: we in the rural area will not allow the land to be used as a pretext, which the rural area really needs, to get behind this loophole. And you all know that since the time it is characterized as agricultural land, it means that it is free to use any use, which means very simply rewarding the trespassers. I stress it once again. From there, of course, there is the Minister to whom you can table proposals. This is a matter which concerns us, which concerns the government in this particular matter. Because it is not the obligation, I would say, against the institutions as much as the necessity at last in this country to have forest maps, that the register should go ahead. Because we cannot talk about land use unless this process is completed. For the amendment, which my colleague, Minister, is here, there is no question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We are giving the floor to the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Papanatsiou, for the ministerial amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. In view of the amendment, 947, the conditions for reimbursement of the amounts paid by the successful tenderers in the tendering procedure for television licences have been laid down following the withdrawal of the relevant notice in accordance with the decision of the Council of State. The amendment reads as follows: ‘However, after the withdrawal of the declaration of 1/2016 by the Minister of State for the grant of licences for the holders of digital television broadcasts free of charge for the transmission of national general information programme for the transmission of high-definition transmissions, it is returned to the successful tenderers of the tender as paid for the first instalment of the price, withholding or offsetting automatically only with dues to tax administration or debts to social security institutions which have not been subject to a regulated programme, provided that the debtor complies with it and has not been suspended. Withholding or automatically offsetting other debts shall not be permitted. Amounts that have not been subject to a adjustment programme until the date of issue of this account have been retained or netted out by default, provided that the debtor complies with this, and have not been suspended, are not repaid. Remaining amounts after the application of the first subparagraph, as well as amounts withheld or offset by debts not meeting the conditions set out in the preceding subparagraph, shall be reimbursed to the beneficiaries. The recovery of the amounts repaid shall not require the presentation of proof of tax information. Debt settlement programmes, which shall revive as a result of the repayment of the amounts referred to in the first subparagraph, shall continue to apply where the debtor complies with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mrs. Undersecretary. We are now moving on to the debate on the amendments as we have said at the beginning of the procedure. We'll move on with the parliamentary class. It has the floor for five minutes, and I would ask that we respect the time, Mr Constantine Katsafad, rapporteur of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u50	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, the reason that the New Democracy Parliamentary Group tabled this amendment to the forestry maps, knowing that they are not the responsibility of your Ministry, is because too many farmers are dealing with this issue together with almost all Greek society. You know the monstrous mistakes that have been made with regard to the suspension of forest maps, and I would like to inform you that since the beginning of the General Assembly members of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group have tabled not one, but two questions to the Minister responsible, Mr Famelos, who has not answered us yet. We are therefore coming, Minister, and we are tabling this amendment in the belief that we can give a solution to several of the problems that we are facing. And this amendment says nothing more, Minister, than that people who have been involved in livestock farming, with concessions since 1975 and who are now regarded as forest land, should only be objected to and excluded from the forestry maps process. No one disputes that the forestry maps process is necessary both for growth and for the environment and for society. From there on, however, we cannot have a tax-supporting logic in this measure, which is developmental and protects the environment. It is huge the sums they have to pay, unjustly, Minister, too many citizens for the property they really own. The second paragraph we have tabled, where we would like a change to take place, is also for those whose use has not been changed, in either of the two periods of aerial photography, the plot or real estate they have, to be able to put their objections free of charge and to be justified through the opposition committees. Thirdly, and very importantly, Mr Famelos - unfortunately, you are listening to them, although he is of course employing a very large part of all the farmers and the farmers, but it would be well if Mr Famelos were also to be here - it is that until the procedure of suspension and ratification of all the forest maps, which are until 2019, we consider that the imposition and collection of fines stemming from the provisions of forestry legislation should be suspended. What's fairer and simpler? You know what? We are going into a process, unfortunately, we are afflicting the world, we are creating very serious problems for something that is necessary, for something that helps the economy, for something that protects the environment, but you are doing so wrong. And that is what we need to fix. We do not come with a logic of opposition here, but with a logic that will be of benefit to both the state and the citizen and we would like you to take this seriously. As far as the second amendment is concerned, we are voting on it, Mr President, although it is late, and we vote on it because the New Democracy has a clear attitude, that the Greek state must be consistent with its obligations not only to the successful ones - who are no longer successful - but to the entire Greek society and to all Greek citizens. It is clear that the efforts that New Democracy made during the period 2012 to 2015 to reduce the public debts. Of course, we cannot stand by the fact that this is the latest act of Waterlo that the government has experienced in the process of television licences. We cannot forget all the effort made by a particular minister of the canalarch when we were all telling him that the law is unconstitutional, we cannot forget the fight against the decision taken by the supreme court in the country which has postponed and the efforts made to prevent this decision from coming out, defying the independence of justice. Clearly, however, we are in favour of the state being consistent with its obligations towards the citizens. Just one comment, Minister, on the part that you say that the recovery of the amounts returned does not require proof of tax information to be provided, we would like further clarification. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u51	We thank Mr Konstantinos Katsafados, rapporteur of the New Democracy. Mr Nikolaos Papadopoulos, rapporteur of SYRIZA, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u52	As far as the amendment from the Ministry of Finance is concerned, we agree. I'd like to say something about the forests. It is very serious what the government is going to do and there is no need for opposition corpses, because so many years we have been on the road without a road map. Today, what the government is going to do is a huge task and we need to help to correct any problems. Of course, I would like to say that they are right. We'll fix all this. SYRIZA also happened to fix this. All these years, we haven't had a forest map. Now all the mother-in-laws get out of the air? We also know what the problems are and must be corrected, but the opposition must also have limits. That's it, that's it! What needs to be discussed and discussed is the issue of forest maps, because if you want to make agricultural policy, you need to know what you have, what your grasslands are, what private properties are etc. If you don't know what to plan? How did they plan for all these years? These must be answered and the opposition must not move the finger all the time to the government. Of course, what we are going to do is serious things and concerns the real development of the primary sector and I am closing the matter. Finally, Mr President, I would like to say that we have had many anniversaries. Today, March 8, this is the woman's anniversary. Two days ago we had the anniversary for Killer, for the rebellion of Killer's peasants. One hundred and seven years have passed since Killer's heroic uprising. We didn't do anything specific here in the House. Of course, in the parties, everyone does what they think. What we must stress is the only agricultural mobilisation worldwide, made by pure farmers for the land, for who owns the land, for who grows the land. You will not find anywhere else such an uprising of peasants against the neoliberals who were at that time. And if we want to see what we've celebrated today, what we said about the woman in those years, then you can imagine the farmer's destiny at what he was, at the applause of cojabase and all that. I think that we need honor and glory, because farmers have put the issue of possession of the land in history for the first time, and that is why it is commendable then for all the farmers who have fallen to be able to cultivate the land, so that the land may belong to those who cultivate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr. Papadopoulos. Mr Jellonis has the floor, a special speaker from the PASOK - DIMAR.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President. Since we are discussing forest maps, I should like to refer to that as well and say that it is nothing new. This issue, in fact, was initiated with regard to its treatment with Law 4280/2014. Where was the problem today? The problem was created today, because this law was not implemented and it did not go through with anything very simple, that is, a symbolic take-over price per acre of all areas that are included in the IACC and are classified as forest farming. In addition, care must be taken for areas which are rural and which have been 'consumed' along the way. What happened instead? There was a ministerial decision by Mr Tsironi, which for each of them provided for the sustainability of agricultural farming. What is the cost if a farmer has three, four or five parcels in such a region? It says that the price will be about as much as it is for tourist uses. In other words, for these studies the farmer would pay much more than the value of these parcels actually is. We expect to see from the relevant Ministry, in cooperation with the Ministry of Rural Development, a definitive solution which must be given - and it must be given, because there is a great disturbance in the agricultural world - for forest maps. I take the floor from my previous colleague, since he referred to Killere and the land that farmers were fighting at the time, to say that today we are seeing matchings from farmers, so that they can live in their villages, in the Greek region, from agricultural income. We have repeatedly stressed this in this House that the policies of this government which have come to the detriment of the rural world for two years, as the Minister himself said before becoming a government, will be the gravestone of the rural world. Since farmers come to claim this right to live in the Greek region, what are they facing, seeking to highlight their problems, seeking to start a dialogue? They deal with the MATs and tear gas on the one hand and extreme expressions and characterizations on the part of the minister, telling them tramps. No, it is not the farmers who claim their right to live in the Greek region of trumpets. Trumpooks are your policies that are inhibiting them and we have said this repeatedly in this Chamber. And you do not mean to understand that you are driving the rural order today outside production, and that is equal to national crime, because the primary sector as economic development and social policy also retains social cohesion in the Greek region. All the others, about '90% don't pay taxes or insurance contributions will pay less', farmers have experienced them now by taking the billet every day and they already began to realize where they are driving, that they are coming out of production. We, even at the last minute, propose here. Instead of putting the MATs and chemicals to farmers to convene the Committee on Production and Trade to see the policies that this government has brought today's agricultural order, to call on the farmers' institutions, and to have a debate on a zero basis on how to compete in the agricultural sector. We cannot discuss the agreement with the Republic of Azerbaijan today, where the main object of the agreement is to export our agricultural products to that country, when we will not have agricultural products for domestic consumption, not export. In conclusion, I would like to mention a little on the amendment to return the 85 million from the bidders who obtained the television licences. Is the government now aware that after having troubled Parliament, the Greek society, for more than one year, with Mr Papapa's tactics, it is politically and institutionally exposed to the Greek people today? That all of this was terminology and even stood up to Greek justice, revealing pastures and tramps who were going to set up the SYRIZA - media system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u55	Thank you very much, Mr. Jelloney. Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr Shahinides, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. It is a constant tactic of the Golden Dawn - we have said it repeatedly - that especially sanctions when an amendment comes - there is no way - to vote in favour of it. It does not mean that there should be an amendment to the draft legislation which we too should be voting in favour of. We are just sitting here and being absolute, but we need to analyse them a little. We have heard too much about what has to do with forest maps. We are listening here today to the special speakers and to the rapporteurs, but also to Parliament's representatives, that they are burning and cutting up for forest maps. Since you really have such an eloquence, you were given an opportunity last week down here in Syntagma Square when the Maniattan farmers had come to protest precisely about this, for forest maps. No one dared to go down from the constitutional arch to talk to them. Since you did not catch up with them, gentlemen, today the same people on Bubulinna Street and the Ministry of Culture have come to protest again on forest products. However, since you did not catch up with them, you could go and meet the farmers from Crete too, to see how truly democrats you are and humiliate their problems. The common demand for all this - because we have been in contact with them - was one and only: the total withdrawal not only of the amendments but also of the draft law on forest maps. At some point Mr. Tsironis had said, "We are proud that we are moving fast on the forest maps". As he had told us then, we were at 20%. Apparently, they went a lot further. They had reached 40 percent. So, today, no one complains that they have found a situation which existed before previous governments. But there is another issue here. We've heard of bully farmers. Some forget the broken tires from their own governments to farmers, some forget the 'green' MATs, some forget the 'blue' MATs and some forgot the CNATs, which protected this whole situation. There is another very serious issue here, therefore. Some of these farmers have houses on the forest maps. These people have paid and HISPIA. Their homes are integrated into the forest maps. The amendments and the draft law must be completely withdrawn. However, let us go to the other amendment with a general number of 947 and a special 62 on television licences. Willy and passionate, Minister! Like you did, you got out of it. When you brought the law to the House, you had heard from almost all of the Greek Parliament the opposition to the way you tried to settle the licence. However, after you have taken the money, after you have already shared it, before you even take it, into social care - and social care for you means illegal immigrants - since you have spent it, you are now coming and bringing us an amendment where it says that only due to tax debts or social security debts will be retained. Why don't you fill in the banks, which, with the recapitalisation, have taken the money from the Greek people? Why don't you keep the money of all these gentlemen, the canals, who owe the sea loans? Furthermore, for the recovery of the amounts reimbursed, no evidence of tax information is required. Not only must the presentation of tax information be required, but the presentation of insurance information must also be required. That's all I had to say. We are voting against the amendments, although they are accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr. Shahinides. The special speaker of the Greek Communist Party, Mr Moraitis, has the floor. Mr Mauritius, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. As far as the legislative amendments are concerned, there is, in our view, a real problem with the forest maps that have been created over the years by all the urban governments, mainly affecting poor and medium-sized farmers and having a huge impact on agricultural income. Of course this issue needs to be resolved. Of course, such amendments, such regulations in fact open up umbrellas to legalise all infringements, infringements that have taken place over the years. In our view, it does not serve poor medium-sized farms. We need to make arrangements to respond to the big problems. As the representative of SYRIZA referred here to the uprooting of the columns of the Thessaly camp, we must recall - although they have spent a hundred years from that uproar of farmers - that the demands and messages of that race are also topical today, because what the poor medium-sized farmers have earned from the struggles all these years are today questioning by the urban governments, the urban parties, from the European Union itself, from the capitalist way of production. As far as the Ministerial Amendment is concerned, we had also voted against the TV licence law. We said at the time that it was also handed over with the seal of the ruling left to inform the people of capitalists. Of course, once the law has been removed, it is a point of order for all of this to be paid. However, we are asking ourselves: of course we are voting 'yes', for this money to be retained. We call it clear. However, other workers must also see this: if workers were to owe all these years - because they have obviously accumulated debts from insurance contributions here - then we would have confiscations of wages, pensions and even benefits. And another thing: All those who have paid insurance contributions are waiting to get their pensions for years. That is why we call on the workers to draw conclusions and see clearly who is serving this system. We are voting in favour of the Ministerial Amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr. Moraite. The reason is the special speaker of the Independent Greeks, George Lazarides.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President. Society outside, Minister, has been upset by the matter of forest maps. You see, what we are all agreed on here, whether by the Coupling or by the Reconciliation, is precisely on this issue of drawing up forest maps, in other words that some things must be taken seriously into account. We also tabled a specific amendment. Instead, I have listened with regret, Minister, to speak of forests that have been burnt and of the need to reafforest the forests. But we didn't say that the forests would not be resurrected. If you read our amendment, it speaks of parcels. For those who were commissioned to draw up the forest maps question ownership of agricultural parcels, question the legacy, question the old property. They do not, in other words, take any account of them. I will speak more specifically and more simply to be understood by everyone and the world, who is watching us. Let us say that a fire occurred in a region, in a prefecture of our country, burning four thousand acres, declaring resurrectable and no one was going to consider that of these four thousand acres, the two and a half thousand acres were indeed a forest land, but the remaining five hundred were parcels, rural areas which were simply bound up with the land. They were drawing a line from the officials to whom this work was assigned, taking a map on a scale of one to twenty thousand - which means that it has absolutely no possibility of analysis - they preached the entire area resurrected and put into adventure all the owners of the parcels who were going to court, because they were not allowed to enter their fields. You know, the law says the burden of proof had to be borne by the owner, the farmer. When they were entitled to the courts, the officials did not give up the prosecution. Note: the farmer was entitled to the private court and the court said, after all this suffering, that the costs are offset. In other words, the man who was wrongly dragged into the courts was also subjected to excessive costs. That is what we are trying to do with our amendment. On the other hand, because in Macedonia we have a very refugee world, we have too many helmets, which are being questioned. What does that mean? If a legacy can be described as forest land, it means that the Greek public has deceived the refugees. Because when the refugees came to our country in 1922, what did they do? They were the exchanges. We left our properties in our homeland - and I am a refugee, of Pontian origin - and we came here and gave us fields to survive. Do they now come and characterise these fields as 'forest land' or question property? These are unacceptable phenomena. We are now talking about decisions by the Committees on Expropriations in 1929 and protocols drawn up in 1932. Some come and question them all that was filed in the mortgage room normally, as property, with what is foreseen by the law. We put all these farmers in all this suffering. This is what we Independent Greeks are asking for. If you read the amendment, Minister, we say in the second point: 'If the forest map shows agricultural land as forest or reforestation, objections are not required. The relevant acts of characterisation or reafforestation shall be revoked by the administration of a house, except in cases where a judicial decision on the legality of the acts has been adopted.’ So where are we talking about smuggling forest land or puncture? Instead, we are in this way trying to restore an injustice. Do you want me to tell you something? When the private or owner feels right and face the farmer as we have to deal with him, he becomes an unpaid forest guard. Indeed, the content of our amendment has been altered. And if you wish, I will read to you a part of the amendment which we say: "This initiative was absolutely necessary because the distorting situation created in 2014 by the unsatisfactory instructions...". It's something that comes from the past. I mean, he's wrong, and he's on his way. That's what we're trying to do, the Independent Greeks, to fix it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u61	Good, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u62	I would like to see your tolerance for half a minute, Mr President, because it is a matter that has really raised Macedonia and not just. The Maniottans came and one colleague said earlier that no one in the House saw the Maniots. Wrong. We sat down, we discussed the Independent Greeks with the Maniotians. We saw that people are right. What I wanted to say is that, apart from the parcels, the legacy, there are the old property, where the expropriations, when they took place, were settled in 1929. They've solved this whole situation. They arranged which property they had to register with the old owners and what had to go through to the new owners.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u63	All right, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u64	I'll be in less than half a minute, Mr. President. You know, because of this way the parcels and all of them have been treated for so many years, it has led to the whole of our country being viewed as farmable only 20%. This is nowhere in any other European country. I am not just talking about Central Europe. I will tell you: in the Mediterranean countries, namely the southern countries, which we say, Europe, the country that is closest to us has twice as much. I mean, it's about 40 percent of the country's entire surface. We have confined it here because of these policies. This government wants to relive the primary sector. So we must see with soberness and seriousness this issue, which is very important. We didn't talk about the other dimension, because you said something about the Constitution, Minister. In another article the Constitution protects the right to property, which is important and essential for the functioning of democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u65	Thank you very much, too. Mr Marios Georgiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u66	I will not go into the amendments as amendments. We are positive about the contents of those that will substantially help the productive sector and will certainly not be sceptical. We do not vote for them and we never support them. What I would like to draw attention to in my turn and did not mention from previous speakers, but we have mentioned it too many times, is when this process will finally change with the last-minute amendments during plenary session. At some point, that is, we must respect parliamentarianism and not deceive it. We have discussed the amendments in Parliament's Rules of Procedure and will be implemented. However, it would be advisable to do so faster, to discuss the amendments during the committees and not to bring them back at the last minute. Those amendments that have come - if they are accepted - did we not know them before? Did we hear them today? Yesterday? Can't we know them two or three days ago? I would like to draw attention to this once again not only to the Minister, but also to the Bureau of Parliament and, more generally, to the services and the Rules of Procedure of the House. Finally, we must stop at some point with the urgent and urgent and the serial amendments that come unstoppable and continue at all plenary sessions. We must respect it at last and help us to read them, discuss them and legislate properly. As far as the amendments and content are concerned, we will also be in the course of the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr. Georgiadis. The Parliamentary Representative from Potami, Mr Spyridon Dannelis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr President. On forest maps, this painful story that follows us years and which, of course, must be completed in the short term and completed properly, there are issues that need to be addressed. But these, Minister, I think that if you judge them, they must come as a proposal for legislation. These are not issues whose seriousness allows them to deal with in the form of amendments, because - I agree with you - the issue of rhetoric is open to an extremely diverse case of the existence, protection and exploitation of the country's forest wealth. I remember you twenty years ago, in our joint parliamentary activity, mentioning very often and saying 'ever forest for ever'. No one should ignore that rational management and the effective protection of forest wealth does not exclude parallel economicly compatible activities which are extremely exploited and followed in Central and Northern Europe. So let's separate these from the conception of society and the world and from our own. So I think that this is how we should deal with any problems that exist in this case. Because it has been heard, I think it is inconsistent to link and confuse Killer's fighters with today's agricultural trade unionists and the forms that they choose to claim fair or unfair, reasonable or unreasonable problems faced by the industry or parts of the industry. Once we have to be serious, because if we want to get out of this multi-level bankruptcy crisis, I think we should reconvene with reality, with realism, on the basis of principles and adopt certain codes that will lead us to get out of this crisis, so that we can make our country a sustainable country. It is also the right to produce agricultural wealth and agricultural income, which will bring solid jobs in the sector and will give us one of the main sectors - pillars of the sustainable production model that the country needs - and we must, Mr Minister, discuss on what terms and under what conditions we will help the rural world produce income and leave the absolute dependence of subsidies - and it is another matter, of course, that we should follow all these fragmentary efforts to tackle - I say - existing problems again. Finally, we do not go hand in hand with this obligation, which we too have, but also with the adoption of acts of violence and authoritarianism. Mrs Papanatsiou's amendment we will vote in favour of it, because obviously the state must appear and be consistent with its obligations towards the citizens if it claims the right of citizens to be in line with the state. Of course, that is not your methodology. Today we are debating the ratification of an international agreement. We've said it. I know that a voodoo voice in the desert will also be my position. We should finally follow the vigour of legislation. We have been late to make this arrangement. I accept it. We would not lose anything, however, to come, as this regulation should have come and not as a last-minute amendment to an international convention. However, I must point out that this vote on the repayment of advances, of sums wrongly paid, is the end of a ruthless persecution which the government, unfortunately, has chosen, I think, blinded by arrogance and ruthlessness. We sincerely hope that the government has drawn its conclusions from how it managed a privileged, otherwise, field for it. And that will be good for both the government and, of course, for the place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr. Dannelly. As Mr Davakis has, of course, spoken on the amendment - if you wish, Mr Davakis, for a short time, to add something beyond what Mr Katsafadas said, you can do so. But for a little while.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u70	Yes, Mr President, and thank you for the opportunity. As signatories to the New Democracy amendment on forest maps, I would like to express my regret and concern about the reply of the Minister for Agriculture. The Minister has been called upon to take Article 117 of the Constitution, on his clear prediction of forest protection. However, the situation in which the New Democracy, like the Independent Greeks, tabled this amendment, concerns another article, Minister. It is Article 17 of the Constitution, which expressly refers to the protection of property. I am also surprised that you, too, as a representative of a provincial region, such as Evia, have not become a socialist of the huge problem facing the rural world of the country - and not only - regarding the great outcry that exists with regard to the suspension of forest maps. It is one case that has become 'priced field' glorious for anyone who is in a state and opposing logic, but also the right measure, as are the forest maps, so that there can finally be a solution to the issue of sustainability, etc. But this is not what this is all about. This is where we have huge mistakes. And the question I believe you will answer me is whether the forestry service also contributed to the printing of forest maps, because I have other information. We are talking about huge mistakes, with the result that the owners are called upon - which is why I mentioned Article 17 of the Constitution - to prove self-evident about their ownership. We all know - and they are not opposition krone, as Mr Papadopoulos said - that the Greek region is currently in turmoil and turmoil. We are talking about a lot of things that we are unable to answer. And I would like, on the one hand, to see the New Democracy amendment accepted - and, on the other, I wonder why the responsible and responsible Minister, Mr Famelos, is not here, because it is entirely about him, but about you, because it is about people who are involved with the earth and who you are responsible for political leadership - and on the other hand, to understand the enormous inconvenience you have caused, since you have called on the country's rural world to come, paying a heavy price, to prove the self-evident price which, if it is justified, will not take away from you, Minister and you who are listening to me. I understand, therefore, that today, at this moment in time, we are confronted with logic. We are opposed to approaches of your own type - you know that I appreciate you - that 'all right, nothing is wrong, Article 117 etc.'. Take a walk to the Greek district, take a walk to the Greek villages, get in touch with the Greek farmers and farmers, to get what we all collect here in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u71	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u72	He said - and I close, Mr President - and thank you - the speaker from the ANELs, Mr Lazarides, the following: 'Society out there...'. Society's in here. We are making it out and against such legislative choices and initiatives, which make us apologise for correct measures on the substance, in terms of the management and placement of certain issues with regard to logic. We call, Minister, for you to take back or suspend this case which has been very confusing and for forest services with the least officials who have and for us to see it again on a different basis, because you have sown winds and you will reap storms because of forest maps. I would ask for a more substantial and political response from you. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr. Davaki. The Parliamentary Representative of SYRIZA Mr Xydakis, if he wishes, may now or later take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u74	For Mr Kefaliannis to be preceded by Mr. Kefaliannis, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u75	Would you like to precede, Mr. Kefaliannis?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u76	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u77	Mr Ioannis Kefaloyannis, Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr President. I shall start with today's events and say that the New Democracy's attitude to agricultural mobilisation is always stable. What is changing, unfortunately, is the stance of the SYRIZA Government, which, as an opposition at that time, characterised the farmers - and the farmers of Crete in particular - as angered and the Minister comes today and calls them trumpets. We, as New Democracy, say that what we are seeing today from the facts is that the then opposition, SYRIZA, in fact, actually could have a movement of supposedly indignant, as it characterised it, and of course it is now coming to reap the storms it had sowed at the time. So, Minister, do you decide that the farmers of Crete are trumpets or indignant? You cannot then call them indignant and today when you are in the government to call them trumpets. We, as New Democracy, say this: there are serious issues in the agricultural and livestock world. We are against, of course, when we look awkwardly, when we see such images. From there on, however, you must have the bravery to do a self - criticism and say that perhaps two or three years ago you were exaggerating or delusional. Do not, however, retrospectively come to the same people you were saying at the time that they claimed their rights today, in fact, to be insulting them. I come to the amendment to the forest maps, which our rapporteur, and of course our dear colleague, Mr Davakis, have analysed. Indeed, as a New Democracy, we have a sense of responsibility to deal with a real problem. I am amazed to hear the Minister say: 'Look, the Minister responsible is missing and I am not responsible. Therefore, I cannot take a position." Let me take it. But Mr Katsafandos, our rapporteur, said that we have tabled, as parliamentarians, two questions, and the Minister is missing. And I would also like to ask the Minister and, of course, his fellow Members: How does the government deal with this matter? When we ask questions, we don't get any answers. We are tabling an amendment, which I think we all agree is in the right direction, and it is not accepted. And it is unfair, Minister, to say that we are tabling an amendment supposedly to legitimise some woodlands to make them agricultural. That's not the point. A solution must be found. But even when we table an amendment in the right direction, the issue is actually referred to another Minister of the same government. Let me not say that at the same time, you are certainly emptied of the co-chairmen of the Independent Greeks who have tabled an amendment which I will not say is similar, but also concerns this issue. I also come to the amendment tabled by Mr Pappas on the reimbursement of the money for television licences. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that today there is actually a gravestone in the famous Pappa law. As a New Democracy, we were the first party - and the rest of the opposition parties then followed - which we had said from the outset that this law is unconstitutional, will be suppressed at the Council of State and we are certainly entitled to the developments. It goes without saying that it is an invalid tender, so in fact an unexistent tender, which never produced legal results. And today the government comes to restore its own mistakes, of course, but also the rule of law, so that it returns the money to the television stations. Let us once again emphasise the permanent position of the New Democracy, that we want to regulate the television scenery. However, it must be regulated in a way which is in line with the Constitution and, of course, in no way in the way that Mr Papapas and Mr Tsipras then attempted to have personal political responsibility. Of course, the Council of State has thankfully restored the legal order. We have - and I myself, Minister - the same question I should like to ask you, namely why the proof of tax information is not required. You know, this is how you raise a lot of questions and it would be nice to clarify them, so that there are no shadows at all, that is, of what you are returning, why the rest of the money is not required by the Canadians to produce the proof of tax information. I think that should be answered to the House. And I will conclude, Mr President, with one last: I still remember the celebrations of colleagues from the Communism who said that they took the money from the Canadians and will now give it back to social dividends or possibly to some sensitive social groups. I would like to hear the same colleagues today, who, of course, have had the famous Pappa law to tell us this money finally from where to give it, in what way and in what social groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr Kefaliannis, Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy. Mr Nikolaos Xydakis, Parliamentary Representative of SYRIZA, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I think that in relation to the amendments tabled by fellow Members from both parties, the Minister for Rural Development, who is well aware of this issue, has responded quite thoroughly. I would like to say to the House and to colleagues that, on behalf of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy, which is responsible for forest maps, we have the assurance that it will soon bring in a set of arrangements to facilitate citizens when drawing up and validating forest maps. Let us wait for this debate to be carried out in detail, in detail, without study and without the risk with these amendments, of having horizontal risks of breaches, inequalities and imbalances.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u81	But the deadline is running.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u82	It was decades ago in this broken country that neither forest maps nor landscaping nor development. We only had bankruptcy. Let's wait a few weeks or a few days. Those who raised lawlessness and arrhythmia may wait a few weeks. The same applies to someone who has been heard here by colleagues who have come up with some surprise, that is to say to compare Marino Antypa and Killere with the current situation. No one is now struggling for reafforestation, and no one leaves his blood under his gutter. There are other circumstances, other times and other historical challenges. It requires respect for what was preceded and created the Greek 20th century and Greece, the newest Greek state. From that point on, let's think that the demands can be fair. I'm not actually getting into it. We have forms of exclusion from the national economy. Personally, I know that last year we were rebuked by the European Commission because we had ruled out the Greek-Bulgar border. What did the rural world gain from the blockade of the Greek-Bulgarian border, which is a blow to trade, tourism, communications and transport? The port of Thessaloniki had raised a hundred thousand tonnes of raw materials and goods for the former Republic of Skopje, which threatens to collapse the port commercially, cannot meet its obligations. By closing the border, you don't help your request, you can just make it difficult for the national economy and the lives of many other professional classes. Let us think about this, because with this social automation, one class turns against the other, just looking at the narrow landscape - there may be interest, I do not judge - we have a problem. From there on, there is also a rhetoric about the subject of television licences. Everyone agrees that there must be flexibility and fairness. This amendment plays a role. You all say that the law fell. The law did not fall into the Council of State, "the provision in which the Minister can make the contest." The Council of State strongly recommends the need for the competition, for the law to continue before the provision that has been rejected, and we expect the active political will of the opposition parties that have easy criticism, so that we can put pressure on the National Broadcasting Council - which has finally been set up after years of failure - to take the role of the competition and put a order in place. Let us keep the breeding of lawlessness and interlocutory silence when it comes to the broadcasting landscape. Since the 1980s, we have had the phenomenon of private broadcasting and never entered a class. Let's get in now. Help, contribute. I do not see any timely question or question why the National Broadcasting Council, which has been set up by this House, is not progressing. It was a need. There was a huge historical delay. We are waiting for your own initiatives and proposals. Let the rest be judged by the Greek people, by those who see the channels, who see us all - and the government and the political forces in this Chamber - who are struggling to put a order in place. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u83	Thank you to SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative Mr Xydakis. Parliamentary spokesman for the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr Theocharopoulos for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u84	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating this once again today and we will not be tired of saying so, because it is not a procedure for an amendment to be tabled an hour before a ratification of an international convention, which does not normally have this procedure. We have lost control over the issue of the amendments to sanctions. This must finally be stopped, there must also be an initiative from both the Bureau of Parliament and from the parties to the Conference of Presidents. As far as this amendment on television licences is concerned, first of all - we of course agree with the application of the law and with the amendment and we will vote on it. However, things are like starting today to discuss this issue. We will not, first of all, forget the procedure you have done on television licences. The Minister responsible is not here today, but the amendment also has his signature. When we told you that it was unconstitutional to define only four licences and, without the logic of the competence of the National Broadcasting Council and that this procedure was completely unconstitutional, you did not hear anyone. You proceeded with a process which was obviously unconstitutional. Today we hear from SYRIZA and from the government about the National Broadcasting Council, for which we have been calling you for so long and you did not want this process to proceed. Do I have to go on? May I say that the night of the decision of the Council of State, whose decision you today invoke, the relevant Government representative denounced that night the Council of State and all its decisions in a turmoil that was in the government that night? Have you forgotten that? We haven't forgotten. We took specific initiatives throughout that period and then the National Broadcasting Council was also set up on our own initiative when you were playing games and you had regularizations. Remember a little what you suggested and how the procedure came from the Polydora you proposed to play on the institution in a process that eventually led to the establishment of the National Broadcasting Council. This is the procedure you have been doing on television licences, this is the procedure that we are here today to talk about the problems you have created for a year. Of course, we also want to get a class in an anarchist broadcasting landscape, and that is what we tried to do from the first moment, but it did not mean an exhibition by the Florence Institute for only four licenses that you have forgotten at this time, unless you want to bring more such reports. So seriousness, too, is responsible. We want there to be a television scene that is regulated by justice and by the decisions of the Council of State and by the National Broadcasting Council to perform its role. Minister, we have now discussed the amendments to both forestry and the agricultural issue for which you are here. As far as we understand it, no dialogue has taken place yet again. You'll tell us if we're wrong. Let me tell you, however, that something is happening here: either the farmers are not listening to you or you do not understand them. Or, in your opinion, it is only the farmers who are to blame or you must see what it is to blame for this whole process. You said the same thing here last year. You said that 'farmers do not listen, I cannot agree.' That is what you say this year. First of all, in order to clarify this, farmers have legitimate requests for overtaxation outside the Community acquis, which is now being applied, the question of the insurance contributions you have tripled, the issue of rural oil, which we call on you to introduce, like the other European countries and do not do, have led to a suffocation, have led to an economic deadlock on the part of farmers who are protesting. Of course, we first have said in the past that these protests, the claim of these demands must not be made in such a way that they are against the other social groups. However, this has nothing to do with the fact that the demands are fair and that you have not solved any of these farmers' problems today. We are always discussing the same, and we are discussing the forest maps again today, and you say that it will still not be solved today and tomorrow and the next time. Farmers are on the streets, they cannot get their support with these issues and, of course, this issue of the national productive reconstruction plan, the national rural development plan must finally be resolved. No one understands that there is any plan from your government. You're making unacceptable designations against farmers. You must not make such designations, as you did this morning. We hear the SYRIZA rapporteur talking about the fact that the opposition also has limits. I imagine he's talking in the mirror of his own party, SYRIZA, about all that he promised, about ENPIA, about farmers' tax. Serious! Faced with the problems at last. Solve the problems of farmers who are at the moment enormous, who cannot produce, who are creating deficits - because they cannot produce - rather than create added value. Like the bill we have been discussing today, it relates to exports of agricultural products and how all this will be strengthened. In this we must sit above and not in a deadlock that gives no solution and, unfortunately, this situation you are constantly feeding on your Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr. Theocharopoulos. The Foreign Minister, Mrs Papanatsiou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u86	First of all, ladies and gentlemen, I think everything has been done by SYRIZA for the last two years! There was nothing else before! It was all very well, it was all good! The channels were paying for the money! The broadcasting scenery was very good! And we came and broke everything! That's what it sounded like today. From there on, forty years there was lawlessness, there was a situation in the broadcasting landscape such that this government came to bring a class, at least to be able to collect some money and put things in their order. Firstly, the decision of the CSCE, as the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman has said, does not reject the Pappa law, the specific provision that we are implementing and that we are coming to return the money today to the successful tenderers. The Pappa law didn't fall. The Pappa law is the one with which the National Broadcasting Council should make the competition, collect the money and bring legality to the broadcasting landscape. This is the law that the National Broadcasting Council is currently required to implement and indeed to bring the results it needs on this issue. As far as tax information is concerned, there is no collection of money, no public money is collected. Tax information is an obligation when money is collected from individuals. In this case we return the money following a decision of the Council of State. As far as the previous situation is concerned, before the money is given, it is for this reason that tax information is not required. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Undersecretary. Minister, you have the floor to answer what you accept.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u88	Mr President, a lot of issues have been raised. I shall begin with the Members of the Democratic Alliance. Ladies and gentlemen, at last you get serious.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u89	After you! Are you talking to what you were talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u90	That's possible! Mr. Jelloney, calm down a little while to hear the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u91	A month and a half ago, at the request of the Anti-Population, we discussed in the Committee on Production and Trade whether this government has a plan, a rural area strategy. There's been a meeting. We presented our plan to you. What did you say? You were shattered and you said "it's in the positive direction and we need something to complement" and so on. In other words, you said "you have a plan, you go on", but I see that from there on you couldn't help but not do it! One is that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u92	Do you have any delusionals?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u93	Please! This is where you need to get serious. It does not mean that because there are channels, you must have behavior that really offend your world!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u94	When did you see that?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u95	Mr. Jelloney, please. Please calm down, so we can hear the Minister. Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u96	Did you really forget that a month ago, after your proposal, there was a debate on the presence of the Prime Minister, where we really tabled answers and, in particular, on the management of the rural area? I don't think so! Society has heard us. In fact, Mr. Theocharopoulos, when did you realize that we have a problem with payments? At least all Greek society knows what happened last year. [[Noise in the Chamber]] You have not realised that 3.7 billion were allocated to the rural area in 2016. Are you aware of this thing? Finally! Mr. Kefaliannis, I'm coming to you. In fact, I do not understand what your position is on what has been played today. I'll describe them to you so you don't have any problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u97	Whatever we dejected from them. We've said it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u98	I'll describe you calmly so we don't have any problems. Are you condemning all these incidents?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u99	We've said it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u100	So it's good that from your side and I recognize it...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u101	But we didn't change our attitude. You're changing attitudes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u102	I did not say that they were farmers of Crete. I said that farmers, who have really been treated with trumpets, have been exploited - and I really say this - 'your own attempt at farmers'. I did not say that farmers are not right. But the way they manage the mobilizations, like today, giving the possibility...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u103	Minister, I said you called them indignant, and now you're trumpets.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u104	...because they had infiltrated and evidence that had nothing to do with your space. But this whole thing was finally supposed to be at some point - and I'm glad - to condemn it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u105	I said it clearly. You've changed your position.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u106	So we're open. You know that dialogue is constantly taking place with Cretans and farmers from all over Greece. Every day, the visits to the Ministry are parallel. But it was not possible for us to allow it. What happened today? I'm telling you, today wasn't the time to be here. But I arranged for my schedule, because I knew the farmers would come down from Crete. We went to the Ministry and we did tell them that 'if you want a delegation of your farmers to come to see us'. Their answer was that they would come to see us forty-five people, with the channels and all this process. So you realize that a meeting was going to take place. Don't hide between us. That's the picture. For our part, we have said very simply that 'no, we will not allow'. Because, Mr Kefalayannis, last year, the corresponding mobilisation came to a threat to the life of the officials. You know what happened last year. So, was it possible to tolerate such situations again? Let these meetings take place? So we're clear. Now, from there on, I want to come to the issues relating to forest maps. First of all, the New Democracy amendment shows that you are not dealing with the substance. What you are proposing is that the relevant procedures should be carried out free of charge. All the rest of the problems that exist didn't bother you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u107	Of course we're concerned.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u108	To be understandable also to those who hear that you have dealt with making yourself imperfect or paying fines later and nothing else. We agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u109	No, we don't agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u110	Please. Here is your amendment. In all three paragraphs you speak imperfectly and fines are suspended. So you don't actually get in the way of the problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u111	Oh, no. Minister, when the central administration is wrong, will the citizen have to pay?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u112	I'm telling you another thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u113	What else are you telling me?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u114	You are tabling an amendment, and you are even complaining, because the Minister responsible is not here to answer you on matters that are secondary.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u115	From January 10th...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u116	I tell you that these are secondary in relation to the primates that need to be dealt with. It's none of your business.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u117	We talked about other issues too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u118	Listen, there is an amendment on the part of ANELs, and I am really obliged to be present. Mr President, I do not disagree with your concern and the effort you want to make to solve the problem. But, listen, let's be clear. When we talk today about the image of the forest map, we are talking about the image of the forest map on the day it was written in 2007. We are therefore clear that what you mentioned as rural areas in general are 2007. Let me tell you that I have known and served the space for years, both professionally and politically. So I know that behind these procedures, you imagine, when the Constitution of 1974-75 set strict procedures, that we should come and break them by 2007. Of course I don't mean the eligibilitys for aid, I mean, and I said it before...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u119	You're talking about rural areas.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u120	When you talk about rural areas, keep in mind not only the eligible areas, but also these areas which are used as a pretext for years in that country to be declassified. So these need to be treated in a particular way. Indeed, the Forest Service in the Demonstration Act made an act that generalised all areas within the Fire Area.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u121	Forest maps don't show that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u122	But it wasn't their responsibility. It was a lack of staff that could not really attend a process, which took time. In other words - and I stress this in Parliament too - these procedures take time and they also want staff to run, so that we can be okay tomorrow. We as a Ministry of State, what makes us most nervous about it, are that we have to have these choices, as we had last year and before, to pay farmers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u123	It's been sixty days.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u124	From that point on, it's not my responsibility, it's the Minister of the Environment. There I think that, according to what has been said by the parliamentary representative, there will be such arrangements within the days to deal with all the problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u125	To change the deadline.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u126	Minister, something was requested to be added to the title.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u127	To add to the title of the bill the words ‘and other provisions’.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u128	Mr. Kefaliannis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u129	The Minister addressed himself and I do not know whether the position of the New Democracy was recorded in the Minutes. Let me repeat once again: in any form of mobilisation that goes beyond the law, we are opposed. Not only today, we have said so repeatedly over the past few years. So we're not saying anything different today than we've been saying in previous years. What we have said to you, Minister, is that then you, as opposition to these people, called them 'indignant', possibly in order to hoard their vote, and nowadays you call them 'trabucos' or possibly use trumpet methods. But I was very pleased to hear the Left Minister condemn the occupations. Because all these years we've heard that conquests are part of the social struggles and somehow you legalized them. So today I am very pleased to hear you say that you are condemning the occupations, and I hope you will keep this in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr. Kefaliannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u131	Mr President, I would like to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u132	Here, Mr Lazarides, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u133	We, Minister, are talking about rural areas in our amendment. The use and status of these parcels is very easy to see. These are the land registers from the old communities, they are the land registers from the Topographical Services of the Prefectures, they are the Agricultural Services. There are too many bodies from which one can draw evidence and determine the status of each agricultural parcel or land area. That's what we say. We are not talking about a change of use or anything else. On the contrary, in this way, Minister, we are also trying to help protect forest land and forests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr Lazarides. Before we move on to the vote, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, forty-eight students and students and four of their teachers from the Experimental High University of Patras. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] You are following the debate on the agricultural and food legislation. It is ‘Preparation of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on cooperation in agriculture’. The debate on this issue has been completed and we will proceed to the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned at the outset, on the articles, amendments and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food: 'Under the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on cooperation in the field of agriculture and other provisions'. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u135	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u136	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u137	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u138	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u139	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u140	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u141	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u142	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u143	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food: ‘Application of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan for cooperation in the field of agriculture and other provisions’ was accepted in principle by a majority. We are entering the vote on articles and amendments. Can the first article be accepted as it is?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u144	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u145	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u146	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u147	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u148	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u149	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u150	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u151	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u152	The first article was therefore accepted as a majority. Will the amendment be accepted under general number 947 and a special number 62 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u153	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u154	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u155	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u156	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u157	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u158	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u159	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u160	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u161	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 947 and a special 62 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominated article of the bill. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u162	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u163	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u164	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u165	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u166	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u167	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u168	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u169	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u170	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food: ‘Undertaking of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on cooperation in the field of agriculture and other provisions’ was accepted in principle and by a majority. We move on to vote on the bill as a whole. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u171	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u172	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u173	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u174	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u175	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u176	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u177	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u178	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u179	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food: ‘Principle of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on cooperation in agriculture and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u180	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to ratify the Minutes of today's sitting on the whole of this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u181	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. It is known to the House that the Ministers for the Environment and Energy, Economic and Foreign Affairs tabled a draft law on 7-3-2017: "Following the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of the Environment and Energy of the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan and the Ministry of Industry and Energy on Cooperation in the Renewable Sources and Energy Efficiency". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. The Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics also submits its reports to the Prosecutor's requests for permission to prosecute Members of Parliament. In addition, it is known to the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to the House, in accordance with Rule 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 "Tenical Responsibility of Ministers", as is the case, on the 7-3-2017 criminal case law concerning the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport Mr Christos Spirtzis. Finally, Georgios Koumoutsaskos has been calling for a short-day absence from 9 March, as he says in his application, he will be absent from Greece because of party obligations. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u182	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-08-S1-commons.u183	With the consent of the House at 14.51' the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday 9 March 2017 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, discussion of current questions.
