ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Please beg the Member of the Central Association, Mr Aristides Fokas, to announce the reports to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, today, as you know, it is World Democracy Day and from the point of view of the Bureau there will be a short speech, and then we will proceed to the agenda for today. Greece has given humanity - and this is recognized globally - two major institutions. Democracy and theatre. The theatre as a script and performance has no precedent in world history. There were no Aeschylus, Sophocles, Euripides, Aristophanes as theatre writers before the ancient Greek theatre. So is democracy. Democracy was born in this small corner of the earth five centuries before Christ by Klisthenes, who established the democratic city in Athens after the tyranny of Pisistratos. However, according to Aristotle the principle of democracy, as he writes, was made by Solon, who is considered her father and who had set her seed before Klisthenes. He was the first to radically reform the political and social institutions in Athens. But Klistheis - and this is recognized by all historians - was the one who effectively reformed the democratic city and sealed its democratic character. Next, Pericles during the "Golden Century" shined the Athenian democracy so that Thucydides at the "Epitafio" describes that "It was done because of some democracy, and I work under the first man", that is, it introduced the concept of the first man in democracy, something similar to the institution of the Prime Minister today. The concept of "democracy" was undoubtedly born in Greece. Besides, the etymology of the word says so. It means that "the municipality keeps", that is, that the people rule, which is also reflected in the first article of our Constitution in agreement with Abraham Lincoln, who, during the civil war in America, wrote about the democratic rule: "Government of the people, by the people, for the people", i.e. "power that comes and is exercised by the people and serves the people's interests". This magic word "democracy" has been adopted by all the planet except for the least countries, for example. the Vatican, but in different forms in each country, either as a Representative Republic, as either a Parliamentary Republic, or as a Kingly Republic, either as a Presidential Republic, as a President-in-Office or as a Democratic Republic. But what is real democracy? In fact, it is about direct democracy and indirect democracy. In direct democracy the people are directly involved, such as, for example, the Athenian Republic, even if it was not for everyone, as slaves did not participate, while indirect democracy is for the people through their representatives. However, indirect democracy, too, tends to resemble direct democracy. Examples of states such as Switzerland, with the successive referendums and the United Kingdom, where the Brexit referendum recently recently, the people were expressed and made a historic decision on the country and Europe on their shoulders. There, indeed, even the marginal result of the referendum was respected by all and accepted by all and irreversible. It was in this respect that everyone, queen, government, parliament and they set an example of democracy to be imitated worldwide. The World Democracy Day is celebrated every year on 15 September, at the initiative of the Interparliamentary Union from 1997 to 2007. Adopted by the UN General Assembly in 2007. This celebration aims to highlight the values represented by democracy, namely freedom, human rights and freedom of expression through free and fair elections. Today all these values are called upon to respect and implement. All this, of course, on the most fundamental condition that the fourth power, namely the media, will properly inform the people and will not deform the news by serving individual or interrelated interests and leading the people to wrong decisions. Democratic civilisation is a particularly sensitive city that needs a high level of people to be able to express itself with high-level representatives in their parliaments. The sensitivity and intrinsic weaknesses of the democratic culture, the saying of Winston Churchill, with his historic phrase "democracy is the worst, in the absence of better", because all the others used proved to be worse. Finally, we in Greece, that is, the great heritage of safeguarding the values of democracy and the struggles that have taken place over the years. Democracy is the minority-respecting city. All regimes have governments. Only democratic regimes have oppositions. Greece from the UN to the smallest international organisation associated with freedom and human rights must fight, be able to lead and remind everyone of the historic path of democratic institutions, demanding their respect. Following this brief introduction, the President of Parliament has asked - and will, of course, have the floor - Mr Voutsis to speak, I believe, about the Museum of Democracy. You're welcome, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much, Mr President. On the occasion of today's report by the President-in-Office of the Council, following a decision by the Conference of Presidents, on the Day of the Republic, I would like to inform the House of the following: I wanted to inform the House that two years ago at the beginning of this parliamentary term we said that we will work to revive the idea and - if possible - to put in place in our country on the initiative of the Parliament, a museum of democracy with international, global horizons. This idea was first heard, and in fact it had been followed by an excellent text by Aristovoulos Manesis and by the then professor, now a colleague, Mr Paradiseopoulos, to the President of the Republic, Mr Stefanopoulou two decades ago, and a public debate and a positive comment on many aspects. On the occasion of the fact that two leaders in the context of the country's international relations, Obama and Macron, have recently come and expressed the particular importance of what our country has called a political masterpiece in its arrest, democracy, but also on the grounds of the undermining and competition that this city accepts from other political systems and, above all, from economic systems, interests in this particular phase of globalisation, it is a matter that has a topicality for both Europe and the world as a whole and for the essence of democracy. It's not a kind of museum. Of course, the establishment of such a museum in which data, words, objects, representations, sources and research work can be collected will, in my view, be an important asset for the future in a case, namely in this political system, which is obviously constantly in energy, in creation, in mutation, in transformation, but also in controversy and confrontation. I think that the Bureau of Parliament is an institution that could, first of all, in the next few days to have a debate on this subject, to take an initiative, which will, of course, evolve outside the House from people of the spiritual world, from representatives of parties and social institutions, so that this idea can be transformed into action, into a specific place in the center of Athens, perhaps, etc. This notification - in a way - I wanted to do something we did not forget after two years. A number of exploratory efforts have been made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point we are entering the second scheduled item for today. The 14th September has been established as National Remembrance Day for the destruction of Asia Minor Hellenism by special law 2645/13-10-1998. On this day of national memory there will be a very brief position on behalf of the Bureau and will then be addressed by fellow Members who have been appointed by the parliamentary groups of the parties and by the Government, the Deputy Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr Baxvanakis, for five minutes each. I quote that Pythagoras' popular lyrics describe the drama of Asia Minor disaster in the most embodied and tragic way. Let's read them: "Myrrh mother is burning. Our life's burning too. Our pain isn't said, our poorness isn't written. Smyrna mother is gone. Our dreams go. On the ship who gets caught, friends beat him." He's talking about Adad's allied warships flying into the sea to those who were indulgent when they were trying to get to the ships. And the poet concludes: "Russia, rosy, you won't be quiet anymore. One year you live in peace and thirty on fire." He's talking about the Balkan Wars to the Asia Minor Destruction. That's blood, a lot of blood, a lot of misery, on the one hand. Finally, it seems that the time has come to understand Greeks and Turks, Greece and Turkey, that these countries must not be used by those superpowers to serve their own interests, namely the interests of the superpowers. Our peoples, Greeks and Turks want to live peacefully in a great Europe with self-evident respect for the European rules and, of course, the treaties signed by our two major politicians, Eleftherios Venizelos and Kemal Ataturk, who saw the peaceful coexistence of our peoples and left behind passions and hates. History must remain respected as history, but the future of our countries must be designed to be peaceful. And after this brief introduction, the speech has been made by MP Chios of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr. Michaelides, for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, we honour today's Greek Parliament's meeting on the National Remembrance Day of the Genocide of the Greeks of Asia Minor by the Turkish state. This day was set up by a unanimous decision of Parliament on 24 September 1998 to remind the House of these tragic pages of our modern history - and let me say that, apart from symbolism, it constantly highlights historical events in the present and future and contributes to their understanding. Of course, today cannot be another opportunity for simple history lessons. Ladies and gentlemen, many pages have been written on the violent uproar of our Asia Minor ancestors from their homes. Many have approached events in different ways, through different perspectives, social, ideological, geopolitical, anthropological. There have often been issues in a colossal way, once again there has been a merciless ideological use of history during the late Phillip Elios, in order to serve purposes. Beyond all this, however, there is the undeniable essence of the facts, the living historical memory of the refugee - and not just the world. And she, as we'll see below, not as painful nostalgia alone, but as a lively driving force for the future. National memory, like any collective memory, can therefore not only be a knowledge or a reminder of historical events. As many historians have not pointed out, collective memory has to do with the forced selective invoicing of events, values, emotions and experiences, understanding of the past, but also of the present, searching for meaning, reenacting the collective self, itself, eventually forming and renegotiating our collective identity. If this is the case, i.e. if the national memory is not or should not be a static set of memories, then it follows that the national memory can only be a living. In other words, it can only be a place of common assumptions, but also different readings, widely accepted meanings and competitive explanations. The great civic events in our historical route as a group are indeed the ones that most embodied are the inherently conflicting and contradictory character of national memory. The destruction of Asia Minor Hellenism, which began in World War I and was completed in material and symbolic terms with the destruction of Izmir, is undoubtedly such a central event of modern Greek history. On the basis of the above, therefore, it should neither stir nor be regarded as morally or nationally unauthorised to formulate different individual interpretations or explanations, as has been the case repeatedly in the public area. In spite of the legitimate and unavoidable differences, therefore, they are the common place of awe and suffering that we feel in front of the number of dead and violently rooted Greeks in Asia Minor. The basic facts are well known. Heading its solidarity with the forces of Adat during World War I and the definitive collapse of the Ottoman Empire Greece disembarks Greek troops in Smyrna in May 1919. The multi-annual military mobilisation of the Greek population and the reality of the national division brought about the defeat of Eleftherios Venizelos in the 1920 elections. The impeccable military option to advance the Greek army to the interior of Anatolia, the burglary of the Greek alliances and the simultaneous diplomatic, military empowerment of Kemal contributed to the collapse of the front and the consequent tragedy. The pursuit of the neo-Turkish elites for the creation of a national state in the position of the collapsed Ottoman multiethnic empire and the reaction to the presence of the Greek army formed the executive of persecution against the Greek populations. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like you, Mr President, to have your tolerance for two-three minutes. And so there is a large and systematic extermination of the Christian populations of the Asia Minor coasts with unprecedented violence, with persecution, depletion, displacement and fires of their outbreaks. These developments, however, cannot be understood by the wider and deeper reconversions, such as the fall of the empires, the rapid rise of nationalism, the feedback of the imperialist pursuits, as well as Greek majesticism and internal division. Receiving and restoring over one million refugees was undoubtedly a catalytic event in order to form the modern Greek state and society. It is well known that the restoration and integration of refugees is one of the most important achievements of the Greek state. Undoubtedly, given the number of refugees and the bad economic and political situation, there have been aspects of this unprecedented process that can be judged successful. On the other hand, the social inclusion of refugees, but also their unqualified recognition as equal members of the national community, were processes completed through various difficulties after decades. The social, cultural and political conflicts that have taken place with or on the occasion of refugees are known. Despite the long, contradictory and confrontational course of the full social integration of the Asia Minor Greeks, their contribution to the social, economic, cultural and political life of the country is registered and summed up. Despite the unprecedented personal, family and collective trauma brought about by the Asia Minor, despite the difficulties and frustrations they have faced, they have often contributed to collective life. In the field of production and the economy, the significant increase in labour supply resulting from their massive establishment in the Greek state contributed significantly to the development of industrial production, without, of course, revising the farm element for employers in relation to the abundance of cheap labour hands of refugees. Participation in labour struggles and the trade union movement of the time have also been recognised as decisive. Moreover, many Asia Minor, traders and entrepreneurs managed to reconstruct into the new conditions and contribute to the economic life of the country. In the field of culture, the multiple contributions of refugees contributed catalysts to the enrichment and revitalization of artistic creation, education and ultimately the modern Greek identity. The contribution of Asia Minor literature and other creators, by introducing new thematics and forms of expression, is now considered a self-evident fact. The elements of change and rejuvenation are equally embodied in the level of popular culture, everyday culture and identity. In view of the fact that Asia Minor refugees were not a single social and cultural category, the complexity of the experiences, traditions, language idiosyncrasies and customs was a rich material, which met with the local elements of the locations.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u6	Finish, Mr. Michaelides.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u7	I shall conclude, Mr President. In closing and linking my last remarks to my introductory notes, this multitude, as well as an obvious and inalienable offer of Asia Minor Hellenism, demonstrates the fact that the collective memory of the destruction remains active, as well as that it can be multiple things at the same time: collective trauma and the driving force of progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, too. Mr Maximos Charakopoulos, Member of the European Parliament Larisa of the New Democracy. If we can respect the five-minute time, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as the previous honourable Member of Chios said, today we are honouring the National Remembrance Day of the Genocide of the Greeks in Asia Minor. I am therefore surprised that for the second consecutive year the information note which the President-in-Office of this House is recognizing does not speak of genocide but of destruction. Mr President, is there any specific reason why this distortion of the FEK was made in 1998 that set the Memorial Day as the Memorial Day of the Renaissance of the Greeks of Asia Minor? I would remind you that the day after tomorrow, when the central events are taking place in Metropolis in Athens and in Syntagma Square from the Region of Attica and the Federation of Refugees Associations of Greece, the invitation speaks - and rightly, as the FEK imposes - for the National Memorial Day of the Genocide of the Greeks of Asia Minor. Ladies and gentlemen, whatever years have passed since 1922, this year will remain a milestone in the history of the Greek nation. The scale of the tragedy and the consequences of the Asia Minor disaster are proportionate, if not less, in relation to the Hellenism of the city in 1453. In 1922 it marks the violent end of an uninterrupted and brilliant historical presence of Hellenism after three thousand years. In this long period the Greek cities of the eastern coast of the Aegean and the small Asia Minor inland, from where they came as refugees and my grandparents, offered humanity a great example of culture, beginning with the wise of antiquity who dared to disperse the darknesss of superstitions and understand the universe with the laws of reason. In the years when Christianity was rooted and developed, Hellenism in Asia Minor again had a leading role. The land of saints, fathers of the Church, who until now have been honored. Even in later times, the Asia Minor coasts have been fountains of development, a dynamic part of the global trade network between the West and the East. However, on the basis of a well-organised, studied and cynically implemented project, this Hellenism was eliminated. The fatal collapse of the Ottoman Empire prompted specific circles, within and outside Turkey, to seek the genocide of all Christians. The aim was to create a homogenized religious state and, at the same time, to extract from Christians their economic power, their properties, their possessions. This happened in an internal war of lasting, the first phase of which was held by the New Turks, to be completed by the kemalists, by savage and disobedient persecutions, with long marches of death in the Amele Tambourou, Greeks of Pontou and Asia Minor, Armenians and Assyrians, were brought as sheep for slaughter. The target has been achieved. Millions lost their lives and others became refugees. And all that in front of the international community. The attitude, especially the Great Powers of the time, will remain a reproach in the history of mankind. In the port of Smyrna all the values supposed to have been defended by Western civilization. But in the East, Lenin's weapons were spreading the chips, you're slaughtering. In the decades since the refugees of Asia Minor fought with nails and teeth to land in Greece, with the mind always running in the unforgettable countries of the East. They succeeded against the adversities, even in the coldness that they found in their new place of residence. A lot of water has flown, ladies and gentlemen, into the groove of history since then. Today some people say that we need to pull forward and that, in order to do this, we need to crumble history, hide facts, change names. The massacre in Izmir to call it "symbolism", the genocide "national cleansing" or "dramatic events" and thus to speak children, thus teaching the whole truth. How intrigued, though, is this approach? First of all, because nothing fixed is built on the lies. It'll collapse sooner or later. Only with the truth can we move forward. Secondly, because if we stick together, we do not bring reconciliation or peaceful coexistence closer. We leave space to repeat the same mistakes. Today this proves to be a great deal. Let us look at Turkey itself, which is persistently denying the genocide that has been committed. Instead of apologiing, instead of admitting the mistake, he sets up festivities, celebrating the massacre of Izmir or the Salvation of the City and, at the same time, continues the work of genocide in the field of memory. It turns churches into mosques. She's got Agia Sophia in town herself. It thus alters monuments, which prove the Christian past of Asia Minor. Soon, it questions the Greekity of even inhabited Aegean islands and sees the reconstruct of the Ottoman Empire. Unfortunately, some, unscrupulous apparently, persecuted by obsessed ideas, ask us to give forgiveness, which we are neither entitled to over our dead, nor which further destructs our neighbour. Furthermore, we must not forget that the genocide against Christians that began in the lands of Asia Minor in the early 20th century is continuing today in the Middle East. Therefore, Mr President, the struggle for the recognition of the genocide of the Greeks in Asia Minor, the Greeks of the Sea, the Armenians and the Assyrians is a struggle for restoring the historical truth but also a lever for humanity to never be tolerated in the repetition of such crimes! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, too. MP Heraklion of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr Kegeroglu now has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, my father, at the age of ten, came to Greece and I could tell many stories - on another occasion, of course, and on another occasion - about the people who were violently uprooted, about the people who survived, but also about those who were lost. Today, however, ninety-five years after the Asia Minor Disaster, the largest in the history of Greece, the Greek Parliament honors the memory of the Greek genocide of Asia Minor with today's special plenary session. Genocide - and this is the only acceptable historical, legal and moral term - is the deliberate and systematic extermination between the years 1913-1923 of the Greek populations of East Thrace and Asia Minor, particularly of Ionia, Capodocyas, Pontou and Bithynia, from the Turkish state. The genocide was carried out in parallel with the same methods as other Christian populations of the Ottoman Empire, Armenians and Assyrians. Greek losses reach or exceed, according to some estimates, one million souls. Massive exit from the ancestral outbreaks, arrests, deportations and massacres, ethnic cleansings, labour battalions and the burning of cities, with the most flagrant case of Izmir, are the tragic description of how the genocide of Asia Minor Hellenism took place. The question of the genocide of Hellenism is often an opposing point, especially as regards the use of the term "genocide". Turkey is trying in every way to undermine its historic responsibilities. The question that artificially attempts to inspire the doubt is: Are the facts a genocide or are they, allegedly, a fatal consequence of a war that lasted for many years and was carried out with particular violence? Of course, this requires particular, careful, documented, legal, diplomatic and political treatment. It is, however, historically proven that the idea, planning and implementation of genocide had already begun long before the war. The reassurance in our historical right is in no way justified. In this light, the unanimous vote of Law 2645/1998, which declared the 14th September as the National Remembrance of the Genocide of the Greeks in Asia Minor, is a matter of strategic importance and is not allowed to alter in any way. The same applies to the recognition of the genocide of Hellenism by the House of Representatives of the Republic of Cyprus from Armenia on March 24, 2015, but also to several states of the United States of America. Equally important is the adoption of a resolution in December 2007 by the International Association of Genocide Studies. This resolution clearly used the term "Greek genocide" and equated it to the Armenian genocide by the Ottomans. The Turkish Government was called upon to recognise its historic responsibilities and stop denying the facts. The resolution was voted in favour of 83% of the scientists who constitute the International Association of Genocide Studyers. Finally, the Ionian University published in 2015 the catalogue of the printed and electronic collection of its library on the subject of the genocide of the Greeks of Asia Minor, which contains twenty-five pages full of presumptions and related literature. Why, though, is it important to keep memory alive and not to distort historical truth? It is certainly not a question of having historical passions and of keeping them in bilateral historical controversy with our neighbours. It is a question of demonstrating itself with coolness, but also with stability, that genocide has been a model for later heinous crimes against humanity, such as the Holocaust. The aim is not to act as an ally for possible nostalgics of violence and not to allow violence to determine international legality. In this important objective we must recognise the decisive contribution of the refugee unions and especially the refugee world, their offspring, the Asia Minor, the Pontians of Greece and the Diaspora, who, despite the timeless omissions of the state, rescued and rescued the historical memory, contributing creatively and responsibly to the creation of the historical identity of Hellenism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u12	Thank you very much. The floor is given by MP Pella of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Shahinides.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Although it has been set as National Memorial Day for the Genocide of the Greeks of Asia Minor on 14 September, we come here, in the Greek Parliament, one day later to honour this memory. It is wrong, because the customs and customs of the Greeks are to honor at least before, not after, the day that has been set. I would say that hypocrisy really exists in this Chamber. We say we honor the memory of our ancestors. How do you truly honor her? All of you - and when I say all of you, I mean it - are talking about Greek-Turkish friendship. With who? With those who have committed crimes and continue to commit crimes against Hellenism even today? Have you forgotten the buttons you have in this room with the slaughterers of our ancestors? But that's probably another story for you. I think it is appropriate to refer to the first phase - because the genocide that took place in Asia Minor was in two phases - which was between 1913 and 1914. The second period was after 1914 - when World War I began - and ended in 1923 with the destruction of Izmir. The genocide of the Greeks was therefore the deliberate and systematic extermination where the Greek element, namely East Thrace and Asia Minor, existed, mainly in the areas of Ionia, Capodocyas, Pontou and Bithynia. The beginning was with the Economy Slaughter on January 25, 1913. It was based on the mechanisms of the Ottoman New Turks government and the Kemal Ataturk movement. It is, in fact, considered one of the first modern genocide. The genocide against the Greeks took place in parallel and in the same way as the genocide of Armenians and Assyrians. However, the Provan was the commercial blockade of the period 1909-1911, while in July 1913 the dictatorship was established by the new Turkish village. The start of generalized persecution, massacres and displacement began in late 1913 after the end of the Balkan wars. Their original goal was the Greek populations of East Thrace. But with the guidance of the German advisors of the Ottoman Empire since May 1914, persecution had been extended throughout western Asia Minor. The displacement of the Greeks from these regions took place under the pretext of security of the Ottoman Empire's borders with Greece, of course with the support of the Germans. Although Greece was a neutral state in World War I and King Constantine german, the Greek communities - not least all - were suspected by the Turkish authorities. On a mandate from the Turkish Government on May 14, 1914, given to the European press, instructions were given for the displacement of the Greek population, and they were reminded that all displaced persons had to sign certificates that they voluntarily leave their homes. The methods used were inspired by the German advisors. As early as the end of 1913, the military command of Turkey had been undertaken by German General Liman von Sanders, who considered it imperative to remove from the areas near Greece - that is, west-west Asia Minor coast - the Greek populations. The evacuation zone started from the Adramytium area north to the opposite of Samos and went a few decades to the inland. This operation occurred in coordinated and at the same time in all Greek settlements. Initially, there was an organized dynasty campaign in the Turkish press and the pressures increased so that the Greek populations would be able to escape voluntarily. At the same time, however, they procured the Turkish population with weapons and banned the possession of a weapon to all Greeks. There was also a rough massage, which consisted only of a Turkish population, who had taken over the evacuation operation and persecution of the Greeks. Those who failed to escape to Greece, who at the time accepted the first wave of Greek refugees, were displaced within Asia Minor, on which route we all know what they have suffered. According to statistics from the Ecumenical Patriarchate, this phase of persecution concerned a hundred and fifty - three thousand eight hundred Greek souls, evacuating cities from Adramutio, Dikli, Pergamo and Photia. In fact, the evacuation of Foya was accompanied by the worst massacres, rapes and plundering. Due to practical difficulties they were unable to displace the Greek populations of Istanbul and Ayvali and were forced to postpone them. The Turkish officials, however, with their statements, have managed to give rise to panic about the future of the Greek communities in these urban centres that I mentioned earlier. At the same time, the NewTurks used other tactics, such as the economic blockade, persecution against specific personalities, the lifting of the privileges of the Greek communities and night-time attacks of para-state houses and shops of Greeks. All this has created a climate of terrorism. On August 22, the metropolitan palace in Smyrna was besieged, which finally resulted in the exile of the immortal metropolitan Chrysostom. The characteristic of these practices was the reduction of the number of students in the Greek schools of Istanbul and Izmir by about 40%. There was a Greek reaction with two private announcements. The second was the one who managed to postpone the temporary postponement of the evacuation of Hawali. On a diplomatic level, the Greek Government created a joint committee, which would have exchanged populations from the Greek territories that Greece had occupied during the Balkan wars with the Greek populations of Asia Minor. However, the persecution of Turks, as I said before, has continued, as I said, by gangs of unarmed people and by the militia. There was a single protest in the Turkish parliament and - oh, what a miracle! - she was from a Greek congressman, Emmanuel Emmanuelides. In conclusion, I would like to inform the House that the exhibition of Thessaloniki is working. Some days before the opening of the Thessaloniki Fair - and the Bureau should also be taken over, Mr President, but also all the Members of the Greek Parliament - there was a conference that the Turkish consul did. He called all the players in Thessaloniki on the grounds that there would be exchanges of ideas and suggestions on tourism, but do you know what the cherry on the cake was? Turkey requested 2019 to be an honorary country in the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki, not in 2020, neither in 2021 nor in 2022. It is no accident at all, when we will complete a hundred years from the Asia Minor Destruction, the Turks want to be an honorable country. If you do this, you'll be once more traitors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u14	The speech is made by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Synthetakis. Please keep the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in May 1919, when Greek troops arrived in Smyrna, one of the most tragic periods of our country's history was due to end in August 1922 in the greatest national disaster. The terrible account is fifty thousand dead, seventy-five thousand injured, one and a half million refugees, leaving behind six hundred thousands dead, victims of the Asia Minor War and the criminal nationalist policy of the ruling classes of Greece and Turkey. In billions of drachmas the material disasters and damages from the war and the real estate that were abandoned or destroyed amount to material damage. The Asia Minor Destruction, the genocide of the Greeks, was the result of the participation of the country's ruling class in the imperialist plans, in the wider region of the Near East, in order in practice to promote the theory of the Great Idea, namely the annexation of territories to Greece and thus to satisfy the interests of the Greek capitalists, which were intertwined with those of the then imperialist forces, especially England. The victorious imperialist forces of Adad, the First World War, England, France, Italy, also wanted to consolidate their positions in the Ottoman region, were aimed at suppressing the Turkish national liberation movement, the division of the Ottoman Empire and the creation of a military premise against the young state of Soviet Russia. These views, together with the strategic attempts to control the oil of Mosul and the wider region, as well as the annexation of land on the Greek side to the enlargement of the internal market, were the cause of the drama. For the implementation of these designs by the forces of Adad and the Greek bourgeoisie were used by the Greek army, while the government of Eleftherios Venizelos offered itself willingly to do so. The responsibilities for the Asia Minor tragedy are also borne by the People's Party and the Liberal Party, namely the royals and anti-basics, who have plunged the people into blood and misery. The Communist Party of Greece was the only party opposed to the unjust war, warned the people and fought as much as it could to prevent war, defying persecution. Then the whole Central Committee of the JRC was imprisoned, imprisoned and several members of the party were exiled. This attitude is an honor for the JRC. At the same time, our party is the only party that stood honestly and consistently on the side of refugees, and has fought against racism and xenophobia, which were cultivated from too many sides. Especially revealing today is the attitude of so-called 'patriots', of the nationalists of the time, against refugees. As we well know, chauvinism and the cultivation of hatred fits the bourgeois order and the "Golden Dawn" parties that are donating him. The class patriotic attitude of the JRC then led to measures against it, as well as to the invention of a new ideology, which would replace the theory of the Great Idea, which, since the years of the Asia Minor Destruction and the Lausanne Treaty, had been crushed in the most infamous way of the bourgeoisie. This role sought to play with the cloak of the ideology of “Third Greek Culture” and strengthened the urban state and its mechanisms to such an extent that no parliamentary dictatorship could secure. Greece's bourgeoisie from World War I to the Asia Minor campaign until today has always been willing to enter the imperialist conflict and serve it to serve the interests of big capital with all these dangers of destruction for the people. The teachings of the Asia Minor Disaster are undoubtedly timely for today. Through the events of the Asia Minor campaign and destruction, the modern reality, shaped by the imperialist order of things, is also enlightened. Local and regional conflicts are intensified as an expression and a result of increased intra-imperialist antagonisms and oppositions, by expanding the fields of war operations in the Middle East, the Aegean, the Balkans, North Africa, the Black Sea, Ukraine, the Baltic, the Arctic, the South and East China Sea, the events in the Korean Peninsula. These are wars which concern only the sharing of markets, the control of oil and gas deposits, the control of their transmission networks, the control of the wider region as a whole in the context of heavy intra-imperial competition. The Greek people have no interest in these wars. It is only the pluralism, which today speaks of converting Greece into an energy hub, while at that time it was talking about the Great Idea, that is, this pluralism, which is also responsible for the capitalist crisis today. It is the order that wins both from the war but wins from the peace, while the working class and the poor people's strata suffer both in war and in peace for its own interests, which it calls 'the interests of the country'. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I shall conclude. This is why, in the view of the JRC, our people's struggle must be directed towards Greece's non-participation in the possible imperialist war: for the release of Greece from NATO and the European Union, for the removal of all foreign bases, first and foremost, Souda, which is currently being upgraded and extended to our country, the return of all military departments in various countries. Since the war, ladies and gentlemen, is nothing but the continuation of the same policy by political means, we say clearly that in the possibility of Greece becoming involved in an unjust imperialist war, the Greek people must shed their blood for the interests of the bourgeoisie. Not to trust its bourgeois order and any government, but to fight for radical changes in Greece, because only these radical changes, at the level of power, economy and society, can save him from poverty and impoverishment of the suffering of war. Only then can there be peace in the wider region. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr. Covenant. The speech is given by MP II Thessaloniki of the Independent Greeks Mr Lazarides. Mr. Lazarides, please respect the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the dramatic events of the beginning of the 20th century in the Ottoman Empire are now known. We know them, despite the oblivion policy that they have implemented in relation to them, some forces from both sides. Historical knowledge is not self-evident. It took decades to highlight historically the persecutions and sufferings experienced by the Greeks of the East, Asia Minor and Pontius. Historical knowledge is not self-evident. It took decades to highlight historically the persecutions and sufferings experienced by the Greeks of the East, Asia Minor and Pontius, the forced abandonment of their homes and refugee, their stigmatisation by the local populations and the effort to start up and create new ones. Some pioneers, second and third generation refugees, were able to clean up from the mud of oblivion and ideological slandering of Asia Minor rhetoric and sit and think about what happened and finally fled from the East. The genocide of the Greeks of the East begins in 1914 when the great persecutions of the Greeks of Ionia and East Thrace begin. In 1915 the Armenian genocide began with one and a half million dead, while in 1916 the Greek genocide in Pontus began with three hundred and fifty thousand dead by 1923, that is, half the Pontus population. The policy of the Turks was the general pursuit of the Greek element. He wanted to destroy the Greeks as enemies of the state, as he did with the Armenians. Turks are applying a regular displacement of populations, without distinction and the possibility of survival from the coast inside the country, so that displaced persons are exposed to misery and death from hunger. They seize the abandoned homes of the exiled by the Turkish barracks and burn or are destroyed. All the measures implemented in the Armenian persecutions are now being repeated against the Greeks. They spread and exiled the Greeks in the most severe weather, without allowing them to take food, not even coats and blankets to protect them from low temperatures. The government organs accompanying the displaced persons did not allow their victims to park in residential places, but only in desert places and exposed to climatic conditions. The purpose was double. Firstly, they cannot be housed and then they cannot buy food. They allowed for no reason to help old parents or minor children and sick people who were abandoned in the canyons and forests and died of hunger or made up of the spear of the Turks. In various parts of the country they made baths, supposedly for military reasons. The government and police organs that led the shifters forced the unfortunate, for allegedly sanitary reasons, to bathe. They put hundreds of men, women and children in the baths naked with a temperature of forty degrees. Clothes were looted. When they were taken out of the bathroom, they were forced to grow in the snow and at a temperature below zero to wait for a police officer's count, who never came in an hour ago. Then another hour were waiting for the doctor for medical inspection. During the inspection, the younger and the healthier were identified as sick, who were killed at the time of dispatch to the hospital. The fate of the crucifixional monasteries. From the catastrophic hate of the New Turks and blind Islamic fanaticism, neither did the monasteries, which for centuries had been respected by the Sultans and the local monasteries and pasades, often granting protection to many of them, but also religious privileges. Metropolitan Izmir Chrysostomos, priests, hierones, were all murdered by torture. A great role throughout history was taken by Metropolitan Bank of Chrysanthos. The Asia Minor Destruction finds him refugee in Athens, away from the Pontus now, but close to the Pontius and the pontian soul. He was sentenced earlier to death by an Amosian court. On his own initiative, the Committee on Pontian Studies was set up in 1927, which played an important role in the writing and rescue of the cultural heritage of Pontian and Asia Minor Hellenism. At the expense of the events at that time, there was a common verbal condemnation by England, France and Russia, which no one made any more substantial. The political choice and strategic goal of the New Turks for the displacement and extinction, the genocide of the Greeks, was decided at their conference in Thessaloniki in 1911: "Turkey must become a mosaic country in which mosaic religion and mosaic perceptions will dominate any other religious propaganda and any other religious propaganda will be drowned. Sooner or later, all Turkish nationals must be fully ottomanized." [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will end in a minute, Mr President. It is also stated in their minutes: "It is clear that what cannot be done with persuasion should be used with armed violence. The right of other ethnic groups to have their own organisations should be excluded. Every form of decentralisation and self-government will be seen as a betrayal towards the Turkish Empire." These are from their record at that meeting of the New Turks of 1911. It's self-help. That's exactly what they decided. These New Turks goals expressed at their meeting. I am not going to read these Minutes because I see that my time is over and that is why I speed up my report to genocide. The New Turks Programme reproduces these views and the latter undertake to implement them in a series of decrees and laws, they have just acquired a word on Turkey's central political scene. Their application surpassed all imaginations in violence and horror. The premeditated nature of the persecutions had been admitted by both Talat Pasha and Emperor Pasha in separate conversations with American Ambassador Henry Morcedau. In the same discussions every aspect of the plan appeared to have been drawn up, after requesting the ambassador up to a list of American insurance companies to identify contracts with insured dead and collect insurance from their life insurance on the grounds that they had not left any heirs, so the Turkish state inherited them. Violence and horror all over them! The Asia Minor Destruction is considered one of the largest, if not the greatest disaster of Hellenism over time. With the Treaty of Lausanne and the compulsory exchange of populations, the Hellenism of the East disappeared after two thousand years and about one and a half million refugees came under terrible conditions in Greece. The day of national memory for the whole of Hellenism is an urgent need not to forget, not only what happened to our ancestors, but also to be able to shield the future of our people from constant challenges and irrational demands. I close, saying the Asia Minor Destruction is a wound that's still open. Every year, such days, the sad anniversary of the genocide and the uprooting of the Hellenism of Ionia in an inhuman, violent and bloody way opens up the wound again. We must not forget the struggling of violence, even in Greece, with reports of 'cohesion' but also naive opinions and a counterfeiting of history. What the Turks did can only compare with the Nazi atrocities that Hitler himself had, to justify them, reminded of what the Turks did to Greeks, Armenians, Assyrians and others. The Greek Parliament has an obligation to recall every year the events that led to the Asia Minor Disaster and to answer all questions and flaws that dominate them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, too. The Vice-President of the Parliament and MP of Athens of the Association of Centres, Mr Marios Georgiadis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, since it is the International Day of Democracy, you will allow me to make a very brief reference, because it is a very important day for us Greeks, who, as a people from the ancient years, have felt the need, we have arrested the idea, established, lived and defended democracy. The democracy of Klisthei and Pericles, for which we are eternally proud, is an unprecedented spiritual and social achievement of ancient Greek reality and incalculable value heritage for mankind. After so many centuries, democracy is essential and now, the same sacrifices are ready to do and still remains the best political and social system of governance. Its core is pluralism and diversity. Any right to democracy is automatically acquired by human existence itself and does not depend on arbitrary primary offices of nations, tribes or genders. No one is excluded and no distinction is made. Those who claim that similar values exist in some other forms of power or that democracy is not for all the peoples or that it must have aggressive identification or variations on a case-by-case basis or at a geographical length and width, are deceiving and deceiving. Ladies and gentlemen, for another year, unfortunately, on the Day of National Remembrance for the Destruction of Asia Minor Hellenism, we do not honour it on the right date, which for me has no excuse. Because September 14th wasn't randomly defined. The destruction of Greek Asia Minor is not due to natural phenomena or 'cohesions'. It's the damper day for Izmir. Even the word destruction is inappropriate to describe the facts at the time, because we are not just talking about housing and infrastructure, but about genocide with all the importance of this Greek word, really its definition. So we must not hide the truth. Because - be careful - Law 2645/1998 introduces 14 September as the National Remembrance Day for the Genocide of the Greeks of Asia Minor by the Turkish State. Hundreds of thousands of Greeks then felt in their body and in their souls what ripping means, what persecution means, what it means in a moment to lose, not only your home, but your children, even what it means. A member of our Hellenism was amputated. A culture with Greek Orthodox traditions, with a local bright presence of thousands of years, ceased to exist. Even in mainly Greece, who welcomed those who survived the fury of the opposite, shock was huge. An exhausted and defeated country in the war, with zero resources, had to in the lamentation and mourning for the lives that have been lost, for the lost homelands, find courage to care for all the refugees, bring them into social life, create infrastructure, even whole new cities such as Nea Smirni, Kalamaria, Nea Philadelphia, Nea Machinery and dozens of others throughout Greece, who, of course, were just acoustically reminiscent of the land of their ancestors. They may have been loved, because "where land and paw," but it was not their homeland. Hundreds of thousands of Greeks met in those days of 1922, this horror of extinction in Asia Minor, in Podo and elsewhere. Millions of Greeks and twice as many of our future generations have heard and will listen forever to descriptions from their parents, grandparents and others that have been saved for the inhuman experiences of the time. And I remember, since the families of my two grandparents lived in the Bank and in Imbros, where one of them was forced to leave the island family, to lose everything, even to change the name. The size of the crime was huge and the unresolved historical evidence is available. We must honor and mourn our dead, the witnesses of the nation and our faith. We must keep our collective memory unclean and transfer it from generation to generation, to centuries. We'll never forget the Asia Minor Destruction and who got her drunk. We will never forget that the genocide of the Greeks in Asia Minor took place organised by the Turkish State. This is the only truth and the size of the crimes was so huge and detestable, that in this case the 1922 winners did not allow it to be re-written nor to hide it nor even to be corrupted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr. Georgiadis. Mr. George Mavrotas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. Because today is the Day of Democracy and you referred, Mr President, to the inheritances that our country has left to humanity and you said about democracy and the theatre, let me add another one that is the Olympic Games. I would like to begin with today's speech and my time is five minutes, which was basically predetermined. "The story neither teaches nor recurs. In our time, the world is once again on the pages of the past. If this is an internal tendency to social self-awareness, to seek ourselves, then it is a positive sign. The role of history is healing." These words belong to one of the most important life-long Greek historians, Vassilis Panagiotopoulos. Indeed, history must not work, it must not become a policy body. Its ideological use should be avoided. This is particularly true of one of the most tragic pages of our history, the Asia Minor Devastation, which left behind hundreds of thousands of dead, one and a half million refugees and, above all, the rooting of the most alive part of Hellenism from its long-lasting historical home. The Asia Minor campaign, the vision of "Greek Greece" and the final disaster took place within the national division, the subject of intense political confrontation for decades. Fortunately it is years that we have left behind that division and the uprooting of Asia Minor Hellenism is now only a day of memory. But memory remains unclean. It was printed better than all of us men of letters and artists, both in their collective and individual dimensions. The community of historians no longer raises the big questions of the Asia Minor Disaster. Apart from a day of remembrance for the people and the homelands that have been lost, I think today should be a day of reflection. The story doesn't teach, like we said. He's problematic and exemplary. No one can see, however, how we have led to irreversible destruction, to majesticism and to exaggerate our potential. The Greek army, which entered a liberator in Smyrna, ended up fighting beyond the Saigon, in fact sent him there a government that was elected, promising that he would put a short end to the campaign. Then change the watch. Here's the populism. The most prominent members of that government were to pay for this with their lives. Their righteous execution has opened up even more the divide. But there's the other side. A country bankrupt in 1898, when international financial control is imposed, will be doubled 15 years later, in 1913 with the Balkan Wars and will reach the dream of territorial integration in 1919, when the Greeks are deported to the coast of Ionia. A sample of what can be achieved when there is vision, realism and prudent national leadership. It also shows that our country has achieved its expansion, territorial and economic, when it had the appropriate alliances, as when it entered the international chess board, choosing a side. The security of the country is not something that should be seen as easy and given in our neighbourhood, even today. It needs vigilance, insight, alliances with temper, professionalism and method, without impression and ambiguity. Pain from the digestion may fade, because along with the old generations the experience is lost, but it is now recorded as a history, as is the new life of those through the millions of difficulties who have managed to save and start a new life in Greece. That's what we have to do. The poor and ruined Greece of 1922 carried out a feat. Fastly enough, but not always without vibrations, with a lot of work and sacrifices, he managed to integrate refugees into their new social and economic reality of this new outbreak. I do not think there are many similar examples in modern history. Perhaps it is also the best tribute to all those who were lost and never left Asia Minor: The new life built by their compatriots in their new home. It doesn't teach history, but it can inspire by example. Memory day, therefore, today, for a Greece that was uprooted, but memory day and for a Greece that merged, which assimilated, eventually transformed desperation into creation and remodeled with new elements and new prospects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr. Black. The Foreign Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs now has the floor, Mr Baxvanakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the dramatic events of 1922, the memory of which the Greek Parliament is honoured today, are known and form part of the backbone of the historical memory of the modern Greeks. The Asia Minor campaign and destruction, the uprooting and the reception and restoration of a refugee population, which was numbered one and a half million, a fifth total of the country's population, is one of the most centralised episodes of modern Greek history. The Ecumenical Patriarchate and the Asia Minor were already speaking in 1914 about the persecution that began in World War I and was dramatically culminating after the 1919 Greek-Turkish war between 1922. The signing of the Treaty of Lausanne and the decision to make compulsory exchanges of populations between Greece and Turkey, although it has been recorded as a major traumatic event in national memory, was to avoid a new cycle of bloodshed against the Greeks who remained in Asia Minor since 1922, which of course was not avoided, as there were the known persecutions of 1955 against the Romans of Constantinople. After the destruction, a new period began in the history of the Greek nation, where the position of the Great Idea took place, demanding the rehabilitation of the refugees and overcoming the divisions. How was this unity disguised? It is extremely useful to think here about the decisive role played by refugees in this process from the outset, and the way in which this integration not only finally devoured any social reflective resistance, but also served as a catalyst for the formation of refugee identities in Greece rather than as a catalyst. The Greek state's response to the refugee trauma was the integration of refugees as equal citizens in their new homeland. Refugees, civilians. This is a message that goes beyond the limits of Greek history and gains timeless and global value, especially in today's era, which in our world crosses a variety of refugee flows. So let's keep the wound, not the healing. Refugees, civilians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u25	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u26	Mr. Charakopulus, what do you want to talk about?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u27	On the subject I raised at the beginning of my position, Mr President. I do not know if you are in a position to give an answer as to why there is such a distortion in the Bureau. And the National Remembrance Day of the Greek Genocide of Asia Minor is mentioned by the Bureau - and this year and this year at the respective events - as a day of destruction. I would like to present to the Bureau the invitation of the Attica Region to the Chief of Officerial Response, which speaks, as defined by the 1998 FEC, for the National Remembrance of the Genocide of the Greeks in Asia Minor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u28	Mr Harakopoulos, as you know and have seen, the parties - and yours - have been expressed on the facts. Neither the presidential decree has changed for genocide nor the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u29	Yes, but the invitation has changed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u30	The House is trying to look towards the future in every way. He doesn't want to alter the story. The story is respected and it doesn't change with anything. But when, in my speech, the introductory, a few minutes, I said that while blood was fresh, Venizelos and Ataturk gave hands, and said, "Let's look forward" and today we invoke the Treaty of Lausanne...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u31	Yeah, but that's the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u32	An oral correction.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u33	...we can't keep saying what history has recorded. No one denies history or content.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u34	So we're changing the contents of the day?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u35	No, no one denies history or content.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u36	Is that the Parliament's answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u37	The House simply has a celebration - if you like - of the facts. It's not the House that's changing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u38	What facts?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u39	The facts? But events have been termed "genocide". It cannot unilaterally alter the contents of the day.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u40	Mr Harakopoulos, the House does not change the law either - I repeat - nor the Presidential Decree. Isn't that enough? I mean, what else can I say?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u41	So there's a serious problem. Now it's getting worse.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u42	In any case, we here cannot continue with the positions of extremes that have other parties, the least extremes that have other parties...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u43	The House alone decides?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u44	Mr President, I beg your pardon, but I gave you the opportunity to make it up to you...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u45	It's getting worse.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u46	...because I thought for the second year it was a verbal mistake. But here it seems that we are not talking about verbal error but about conscious choice. This cannot be tolerated by this House. There is a parliament decision, there is in the newspaper of the Official Journal of the Government, presidential decree...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u47	Homospheric!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u48	...which stipulates that this day is National Remembrance Day of the Genocide of the Greeks of Asia Minor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u49	The genocide, not the destruction!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u50	That's what I told you. Neither the presidential decree nor the law have changed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u51	It cannot be said that at the beginning of the sitting, when the Bureau sets the agenda instead of 'genocide', that it may want a majority, which is happening today in the House. The Bureau must honour the memory of the Greeks' genocide in Asia Minor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u52	You said that and all parties said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u53	They didn't say.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u54	Most of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u55	The President-in-Office has not said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u56	Do you adopt this?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u57	In any case, the Bureau of Parliament expresses its views on the whole of the parties. So the whole of the parties, as expressed, says that history is respected, genocide exists, genocide law exists...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u58	Why isn't it written?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u59	...the presidential decree is in existence. In any case, however, we must look forward to tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u60	What does that have to do with anything? We're looking back?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u61	What does that have to do with anything, Mr President? What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u62	Not forget it. We cannot create issues from beyond.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u63	If we don't look back, we'll have a new disaster ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u64	We have a matter here not really.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u65	It would be unrealistic if they were not repeated, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u66	You're welcome. We can't discuss theory.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u67	Well, now there's a big problem. Anyone who doesn't look back will get the same in the future.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, in all school books we are taught the Asia Minor Destruction. Spreading on words?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u69	He has a name, Mr. Xydakis. It is written in the FEK as a ‘genocide’. Not written ‘destruct’.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u70	Okay, he's writing it. No one changed the presidential decree.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u71	Can't the President...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u72	It reads the agenda, which is repeated for the second year. Last year by Mr. Kourakis and this year by Mr....
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u73	Personally, I come from an area that, as you know, had the longest working time from all over the country and my family has personal memories.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u74	Mr President, it was not reproached to your face.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u75	But this is all documented and hurt and they don't erase if you want. However, we cannot forget Venizelos' hand of friendship with Ataturk.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u76	This has nothing to do with it, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u77	These people did not come out to say "every day we will repeat the same thing and fight." The poet I mentioned in his poem said so. It can't be done. You understand that. It doesn't change anything. History is history.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u78	But we're asking them for recognition of genocide. Now you're saying they shouldn't listen to them?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u79	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the Memorandum of Remembrance Day for the destruction of Asia Minor Hellenism has been concluded and I would ask colleagues to observe a minute's silence.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The first question will be discussed under number 1481/12-9-2017 of the Greek Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Triantafylides, to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: ‘Court of acquisition of red loans by borrower I Residence - Preferential status’. The Minister of Economy and Development will answer Mr. Municipality of Papadimitriou. Here, Mr. Triantafylides, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u81	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, "we have taken care of the strong pressure to ensure the protection of the first home" said in Thessaloniki last Saturday, Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras, supplementing "by extending the application of the Katselis - Statakis Act and the new arrangement that comes and will extend its validity after the end of this year. It is fair and it has been done.’ This is the central one - if you would like - the regulation - umbrella, because three and a half months before the end of this year and because it is a given Article 70(8) that stipulates that property of an objective value of up to EUR 140,000 up to 31 December 2017 has been suspended any procedure, to the extent that a mortgage is in existence or to the addition of a first-place mortgage or any other commitment, it is clear that this cloudy regime must be clarified. I have heard your statements and the statements by Mr Stathakis, your predecessor, and the statements by the Prime Minister. Minister, it's necessary. Another well-meaning and other badly-meaning thing has been set up with a gamble of terror, fear, panic, and to the extent that behind my question - and I have to clarify this - there are not the six poor creditors who are either waiting as evil 'with the royals to water and the pot' - a preferential regime, and we will then discuss it - but it has something to do with what the borrowers themselves define, that is what we are interested in. I have been sent, on the basis of this question, a letter from the Association of Debtholders - Creditors of Greece, noting "the established cases of failure to respond to the repayment of the loans". So who? Unemployed, small and medium-sized enterprises, remote areas, remote areas. So they are interested in us, they are interested in me and they are behind my timely question. It is necessary to have this regulation - umbrella, to deal with this horror, fear. And today, if you will, I do not say badly, I do not want to blame a colleague of mine - written in the press: 'Take their homes'. Outrageous requirement of the troika’s technical scales for red loans.’ The man who has the agony, the concern, who lives essentially on the tail of the cuitium, the man who is under the first residence - and I am referring only to the first residence - and who is in this regime must feel our Government - and that is what we have done all the previous years and that is what we must do - as an elbow on which he can and must touch, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u82	Please, Mr. Triantafylides, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u83	In the second place, I'll tell you some other things.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u84	You've got a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u85	I am closing my sentence, Mr President. But it must first be made clear whether there is the political will of the government, as the Prime Minister announced last Saturday, and what it is now, in time, in order not to make this auction and the auction of this fear and panic. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u86	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u87	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Triantafylides, I would like to inform you that No.4354/2015 provides that no more than 12 months before the transfer of a claim from a non-performing loan, the credit institution should have called the debtor to settle its debt. It is a different question whether the credit institution is obliged before the transfer of its claim to propose to the debtor the redemption of its loan under the same conditions as proposed by the proposed issuer, the so-called funds. Such a legal obligation does not exist, as such regulation would encourage the creation of strategic malpractices, without giving any help to those who really need it. And I'm explaining. If a person has the possibility of repayment of his loan and knows beforehand that the credit institution, before granting its claim instead of a percentage, is obliged to propose the redemption of the loan instead of the same percentage, you understand that this debtor knows that it is in his interest not to repay his loan, with the expectation of a substantial proportion of his debt being granted on redemption. Therefore, such an arrangement will create a large number of strategic malpractices. Let us now assume that such an arrangement is being introduced. Since the funds buy cash loans, the preferential scheme means that the debtor should be given the opportunity to buy his borrowing again in cash. However, the debtor who is already in a position to be consistent with his obligations and became inconsistent because of the difficult economic circumstances will not have cash the percentage of the claim the fund will offer. If he had it, he'd have paid his delayed doses. In addition, a preferential scheme is impracticable in its application. The fund, when purchasing loans, does not offer a separate price for each individual loan. On the other hand, it offers a total price for a package of large number of loans that have been established in advance by the credit institution and normally includes both serviceable and non-performing loans. The establishment of a preferential scheme would therefore lead to a phenomenon: to offer the credit institution a package of loans for sale, to receive a proposal for a total price from the fund and subsequently to amend the package for sale, deducting from it the less insecure requirements. This would not constitute a serious sale of loans. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Give me two seconds, Mr. President. Our priority is the effective protection of the weak debtor. To this end, we are working to successfully implement the extrajudicial system of corporate debt regulation and we are negotiating the extension of the protection of first residence under the law for overdue households. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u88	You're welcome. Mr. Triantafylides, you have the floor again for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u89	Give time, Mr President, because it is a big deal and you understand the sensitivity that all of us have on this issue. Minister, here is an issue which itself imposes it, in that to the extent that it is intended to reduce red loans and remove them from the banks' balance sheets, they will take more money - and think - from the debtor when he knows what it is. Of course, I agree with you and there is a need for some myths to fall down. In Cyprus it's forty-five days. To us, our legislation gives 12 months of the bank's obligation to inform us that its loan, therefore its attachment, is to be incorporated into a comprehensive sale- divestment package. Look at me, Minister. Between the 'global sale' and the'retail sale' in the funds and behind the numbers there are people, there are families that we have to protect, in order not to become a story but a Spain or a Ireland, and because you and your assembled, Mr. Stathakis, have said so as to counterpopulation, that through the recapitalisations the state budget, namely the Greek citizens have paid the bank's openings. Three recapitalisations, billions were taken by the banks to cover the exposures with housing, business and other loans, which were quite correct in the second assessment by George Stathakis put and covered the two thirds and said "not only housing and consumer, but also business that have a first home attachment". Minister, I ask our government to do this and I ask it to be done in the sense that this will be the case. I'm giving you a simulation. I'm being briefed by the bank that it's going to dive out my loan, so my home. I immediately send an extrajudicial - answer, and I say 'all the money that gives you, I give you more than EUR 1,000'. You understand that after this written out-of-court, the banker who will sign a loan - sold to the Attica Bank - of 100 million for 8 million euros, of 100 thousand euros for 8 000 euros, when I tell him in writing that I will give him 9 000 euros, "whatever the fund gives you, I will give you a thousand euros more", he will have a problem, he will be accused of infidelity and even infidelity. So there must be no such flooding with all those who are very interested, and we do not care, we do not come from the people, we do not come from the citizens. Because some people have put together a fabulous thing. I could say from June - not to think, Minister, that I am unfair. In a post on June 5, 2016, it reads: "Auctions, evictions - "extreme" in two hundred thousand homes" have begun. When I asked my colleague, the journalist, "You know from June 2016 to June 2017 that there have been two thousand first-resident evictions?" he said, "no." And yet, this is signed by a well-known journalist. As a gospel it is used. I won't say his name. Let them think about it themselves, because this is where we play with anxiety, anxiety, family day after day. I want to close - and I thank you for your tolerance, Mr President - to say that the only way to deal with fear, horror, panic and specific fabrics is through the creation of the Loan Information and Support Centres. Three days ago we inaugurated in Thessaloniki and the Centre in the Municipality of Thessaloniki, in the Municipality of Pavlos Mela, in the Municipality of Elosmos - Cordeliou. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I urge you, Minister, to see the following. After consulting - I also visited the Municipality of Kalamaria, to cover the eastern Thessaloniki, accepted the Mayor, Theodosis Bakoglidis, to host the Information and Support Centre of the Dealers, which will also cover the eastern part of the city. I also call on the citizens: don't listen to what they say right and left. Always in the Loan Information and Support Centres there are official state officials to support. Do not listen to the right and the left who are actually trying to trade in fear and terror and your agony and your concern that you and your children should not be found on the road. Depend on the hundred and twenty CIFs. At the same time, however, "Athena and the hand are bleeding", Minister, Mr Papadimitriou, Mr Stathakis, to "stop" where we can.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u90	Please, Mr. Triantafylides, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u91	Behind wholesale and retailing there are people and families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u92	Minister, you still have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u93	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Triantafylides, you may not have listened to me. Funds buy packages of loans. They cannot separate one loan from the banks or both, because the package has both serviceable and non-performing loans. So it's impossible to get serviceable loans or not serviced loans and create a new package. It is something that is not possible. Secondly, what I wanted to stress, as I said at the end, is that the out-of-court settlement mechanism was created precisely for the reason you said. You also referred, as the Prime Minister in the Thessaloniki Exhibition, to the fact that we will negotiate the extension of the protection of the first residence, as Mr Stathakis put it. I don't think we can do what you want us to do. It can't be a law like that. You referred to Cyprus. In Cyprus it was a unilateral decision. Unfortunately, we cannot make this unilateral decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, too. We move on to the second question with number 1457/11-9-2017 on the first question by MP II of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMARMAR Mr Andreas Loverdos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Normal developments in the investment of Eldorado Gold in Halkidiki', which will be discussed at the same time as the third with number 1449/8-9-2017 and the third question of the first cycle of Congressman B in Thessaloniki, Mr Aristides Fokas, towards the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'An unjustified delay in the work of the company 'Greek Chrysos', because these two topical questions refer to the same subject and without affecting the rights of speakers in their speaking time, by applying the provision in paragraph 4 of Rule 131 of the Rules of Procedure of this House. Please, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Stathakis, the country has been undermined in relation to its economic policy, since by 2023 the surpluses should be 3.5%. And he wants simple common sense to think that since these are the commitments and the great difficulties, the solution can only come from growth, which will enable you to respect your agreement. [[The President-in-Office of the Council, Mr DIMITRIOS KAMMEINOS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] We also have a government, of which you are a member, which is a proven enemy of investments, against investments. The Greek is a very big, serious, classic example. We'll bring it to the House as a Democratic Incorporation in the next few days. The Skouries are a second, very characteristic example, since the Prime Minister himself is against this investment, as he said some years ago, when he was in charge of thirty-nine Members who tabled a hostile, aggressive question against the investment. You're insisting on this attitude, you're colluding with the company. What are the sights of a government colluding with a company, all over the world, a company that protested about permit delays of three years? Because you push her back. And the people for this attitude have something to say: whoever does not want to ferment, ten days - that is, a thousand days - sifting. You have made out, since there was the conflict, your Members say: 'but we have laws, laws of the state, European Union law!' Yes, but the laws and Union law do not tell you to do three years to issue a licence. Laws say other things, they speak of very short deadlines, and the logic says that these deadlines, on the basis of real difficulties, may also be slightly higher in practice, but not three years, two years, a year. And then the Members said to you: 'We were not under pressure.' But it also proves today and yesterday that you do not take pressure, but everything else you accept, because you are now signing the permits for Olympiad, from what we are reading. A party supposedly, a demek party, which just got pressed, starts doing what she didn't want to do, smashing the country. And you're talking about the environment, and at the same time, Minister, we have the events in Saronicos, where the frugality of the relevant ministers and other factors have brought about the destruction they have brought. Last night I was in Greek, in the Municipality of Argyroupoli - Greek, and you were wandering. They said, "What government is it that we have? We don't want any more! That's her! Great! He brought us anciently, brought us forests and brought us oil!” I would like to end, Mr President, by oligopoly, that of the friends of the environment. Let's go back to the subject with one last sentence. After the issue of the defamation of the country because of your government arrived up to the Eurogroup a few days ago, for a few demises in the country, you sign, for Olympiad, not for the Skouries. And the question of my timely question is what I am closing down with. Are you in favour or against? Person to talk about environment you don't have. And you have not only because what happened in Saronicos, but because we have nineteen decisions of the Council of State, nineteen decisions which I have here, which solve environmental protection issues. And here is a European country and it has institutions, it is not any citizen, you or I, who is to overthrow decisions of institutionalised constitutional, state institutions. I'm waiting for your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr. Loverdos. I would ask Mr Focas to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Stathakis, I heard you say that the S.T.E. He rejected the proposal to use cyanide in the production of gold. Evidently, you have confused that the company "ELLENIKIKI CRYSOS S.A." is not "TVX", which left in 2000 from Halkidiki. You said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u98	When did I say that? Did I say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u99	You mentioned it. I'll give you the article from the paper, if you like. Here we are talking about a gave that you have done, because the company "ELLENIC FRYSOS S.A." uses the instant melting method. You've sent the company to arbitration on this matter. You know that arbitration in no case in Greece has lasted less than one year, under no circumstances. The environmental director of the company "OTTO-TECH", Professor Kogios, came to Athens and testified to the S.E. in the action brought by the company ‘ELLENIC FRAMEWORK S.A.’ for the annulment of the decision. Here we are talking about the Finnish company 'OTTO-TECH', which has carried out the disputed tests in its research centre in Finland, used by this technique by the 'Halkidiki CHRYS S.A.' for the recovery of gold in Halkidiki. This technique neutralizes arsenic that is harmful to the environment without using cyanide. It is the instant melting method. Mr Skourlet, and Mr Lafazanis before, have rejected this method as a method used in third world countries. Let me remind you that the company in Finland is active in fifty countries in the world. Many of these are Sweden, Finland, Germany. This technique is used in the largest gold mine in Europe, which is in the centre of Hamburg. So we understand that it is a modern method, which is safe for the environment. The company sent 20 tons of condensation from Halkidiki to Finland to carry out the necessary tests and we're talking about a company - Mr Stathakis, don't smile - which has seven thousand patents for this technique...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u100	It's a series of inaccurate things you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u101	...and trust her in mines all over the planet. I also want to say that this company is sixty-five years on this site. Mr. Skourletis suggested that the company should bring the factory here and do the tests. First of all, this is not because the company has the patents, the know-how. How are you gonna buy her the know-how? He doesn't give up. You need to build a factory worth over 20 million, and you need to hire two hundred engineers to do the studies. Yes, you agree, Mr Stathakis. How will they do that to the company? Make a new unit to do the studies here, when all the mines on the planet go to Finland and do their tests? And what do we do after the factory? Will we shut it down? I heard Mr. Famelos say that the company "Hellenic Chrysos S.A." has not yet submitted a study to the Ministry to produce gold. This, Mr Statakis, is a great lie. The study was submitted by the company. On 22-12-2014 he filed a technical study of the metallurgical unit of copper and gold of Madeem Lakkos. While the government had to authorize within three months, under the Code of Mineral and Quarry Works, the government has it in its drawers thirty-one months. Also, there is a technical study for the new enrichment plant in Madem Lakko. This licence has been pending since the early 1915s. I would like to add that there are many permits. It is not subject to arbitration, Mr Stathakis, to'modification of the permit for the installation of electromechanical equipment for the enrichment plant' of Skouria. And I insist here in Skouria on this licence, as well as on the extension of authorisation and installation of electromechanical equipment for auxiliaries and service infrastructure. This existing authorisation expired 24-3-2017 and you did not renew it. The previous authorisation I mentioned was lodged 10-8-2016.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u102	Dear colleague, we've reached five minutes. Please, if you're kind enough, let's hurry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u103	And I would like to insist here - if you will excuse me, Mr President, for one minute - because there have been no permits for a few days. If your department gets these permits, the five hundred and thirty employees and five hundred will return to work within the month.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u104	We've been through this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u105	Don't be ironic. Look if you want the camera, Mr. Stathakis, and address the thousands of families who fight in Halkidiki.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u106	Mr. Colleague, let's avoid a little bit of a characterization. Thank you very much. Minister, you have plenty of time to answer, because it was a multitude of questions, to solve the misunderstandings, or whatever.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u107	It's a record of inaccurate things I've heard, but I'll come back to the original question. I'll read to you our Ministry's press release: ‘3 August 2017 Meeting of RIS G. Statakia with "GREENIK FRYS S.A." The Minister for Environment and Energy met with the administration of the Hellenic FRYSOS S.A. The debate has shown the following: 1. The Legal Council of the State has been entrusted with the representation of the Greek State in the arbitration procedure with the Hellenic Republic FRYSOS S.A... This procedure is due to start at the end of August. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The pending permits for the sub-work of Olympiad are completed. 3. The licenses for the sub-work of the Skouries remain pending. The RIS estimates that referral to arbitration with the Hellenic FRYS S.A. is the best solution for resolving all issues with the company. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister, George Stathakis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] First finding. The government does nothing secretly. It publishes meetings with the companies as well as their content. So, on 3 August, the government says that we have begun the arbitration procedure, because - and I am turning to the substance of the matter - this matter includes three projects, the investment, which is an integrated investment project, the Olympiad, which has an old mining industry and will continue to have a new mining activity, the new mining that is Skouria and the verticalation plant, which we know as a metallurgy. The first project, the Olympiad - as it seems from the announcement, which I made orally, was to be done by 15 September - is 100% licensed today. In other words, the Olympianity was two applications made on 12 and 18 July now, for mortgages and a basic study which was pending for a period of five to six months, quite complex - I admit - a study, which I repeat - was cleared. The second part, the Squirrels, is very linked to metallurgy. I won't stand. I made it clear that after we go to arbitration, all the issues will come in there. The arbitration, the third permit you invoke, has never been given, because the Greek State has not been convinced of this: that this metallurgy is possible, when we talk about the quantities of arsenic in the Olympiad mine, when the permitted limits and treatment that we have internationally and worldwide together and from Finland is 0.3%-0.4% in the mixture coming out of the mine. The Olympiad mine, as you know, has 8% male, outrageously high rate. This is also the issue, among others, of whether it is possible to create metallurgy, which will firstly produce pure gold, as the Convention says, secondly, whether the arsenic can be identified, arrested and not having a huge impact on the environment. This risk, in which there is no licence, is the study submitted by the company. It was returned back in July 2016, with the technical observations of the Ministry and the reasons why this does not satisfy us. The part about whether or not we can use Finland's laboratory data was judged on the Council of State. I am referring here to the fact that the nineteen decisions of the Council of State are not against the Government, nor against the State. The eighteen - with the exception of what I mentioned - out of the nineteen - concern the use of citizens against decisions by the state, namely, the State did an administrative act, an authorisation - a good time like the one I gave yesterday - and citizens will appeal against the state because it gave the permission. The decisions of the Council of State are not a dispute between the company and the public. I would like to close parentheses so that I do not hear that argument again, because it reaches the limits of funny. So I'm coming back. The authorisation of the central project shall be waived. This licence has not been convincing the Greek State. Now? Mr. Skourlet or Mr. Stathakis? Oh, no. And Mr. Maniot was not convinced. The work, which you invoke, for the on-the-spot application of the method to convince the Greek State that it is done, was Mr. Maniotis' decision. Mr. Skourletis brought it back, and I refer her to arbitration. What does that mean? That it's a matter of politics, who's a Minister? Don't you think it's public service? I repeat: doesn't the public have the services? Is that the ministers? Oh, no. Services say that. So the Ministry's services over time - and that is why I mentioned the example of Mr Maniotis, to see and what Mr Loverdos' reaction will be - say: 'This is what we want to see in a concrete way'. And this is adopted by Mr Maniotis. It returns the study as impossible, as unacceptable and Mr. Skourletis does so in July 2016. How's the company? Instead of reintroducing the study to the Ministry on the basis of technical observations - good, bad, moderate - it doesn't matter - the company appeals to the S.E. for a study based on the services of the Ministry is - first - incomplete, half - that is, the study had to say how to build the four floors of the building. The study submitted by the company says about the first two and says: "For the other two I will tell you later". "You approve of building the first two floors and I will tell you about the other two." Secondly, the way this is built needs technical additional remarks made by the Ministry. I repeat once again: 'The services of the Ministry'. So what was the answer to the press release I just submitted to you by the company? First, they sent the minister out to me. Do you agree with companies to send out to ministers? Do you consider that a common practice?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u108	When they've invested two billion...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u109	You consider it reasonable.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u110	...to sell and have only obligations...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u111	Yes, sir. You think it's right, that is, it's a normal practice.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u112	So we believe that in the three letters he sent to the Prime Minister, he would at least answer...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u113	Let me answer you, Mr. Fokas.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u114	All right, Mr. Foka, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u115	He asked me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u116	All right, Mr. Foka. Minister, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u117	I just wanted to know that you agreed. Secondly, while I read you and the Ministry are consistent with this, arbitration begins and is licensed, as all have been announced in the press release. On Monday the company makes a nice frame and says: "Slow the licenses". What licenses? The basic study in which there is a dispute with the public through the successive Ministers with very serious issues that we are sending to arbitration, the Olympiad I have announced that it will be cleared or the Skouries I have said that it will not be licensed until we go to arbitration, that is now? Arbitration, for you know, is expressly in law three months with the right to prolong for another three. So we have clearly been placed in the process. So the company does an analysis - which is why I said that the company has not learned to work in European countries as it turns out - which says: 'I sent a letter to the Prime Minister. He didn't see me." Amazing! Imagine leaving a company tomorrow and saying: "I asked for an appointment from the President of the Republic of France and did not give me an appointment". Secondly, the Minister does one, the other, the following, he starts and evaluates Prime Ministers, Ministers and parties, "the government is not friendly for us" and so on. I have no objections for the company and every company to love certain parties and not to love any more. In other words, I have no objection to the 'ELDORADO' to create a club of friends of the New Democracy or friends of the Centro Association. No matter at all! I have a problem with that you can't make a "ELDORADO" fan club. Backwards is in trouble. It therefore raises a fundamental issue of how a European democratic country works in relation to a company which carries out impatient and provocative functions for our democratic community. In conclusion, I will say that the myth of long pending permits is an unexistent myth. It's not true. Secondly, it is the responsibility of the company that at this stage we do not have the investment project completed. The company's responsibility! This is a timely issue and I have therefore mentioned very characteristicly that on this issue, which is the issue at issue in the dispute, the continuity of the ministry goes beyond the ministers of the present government, as is the previous political leadership. I repeat that the answer is simple, because there is public administration in this country, which - fortunately for all of us - exists, has an opinion, has function and tries to respect the laws with polite reverence. I close with the famous political risk and whether the government is in favour of investment or is against or against the investment in question if it is in favour or against other things, which we had this week to respond directly and without any reduction. I assume that you will all agree that the state has continued, that there is a contract with a company and the Greek State, that the terms and conditions set for this investment, which are two, must be exhausted. First of all, very strict environmental protection for the simple reason - you all understand - that Halkidiki is not just the mines. Halkidiki lives from dozens of other activities, from tourism, from agriculture, from livestock farming. It is an investment where any slight diversification from very strict environmental conditions can cause unacceptable environmental disasters. Therefore, it must be very strict and legislation and licensing and supervision of the company's operation on this matter. Secondly, it is the legacy of the Greek State to ensure that the activity is vertically integrated - you all know that if the ore goes abroad, the benefit of the Greek State is virtually zero - and the public must ensure, as the contract says, that there is verticalisation. So we'll have the full investment plan. In conclusion, I should like to remind you that I will not say a word on the content of the referral, and for as long as necessary, since the arbitration has begun, because it is not a public consultation, but a restricted procedure. So I will not go back to this at all. Finally, I would like to call on the parties once again to abstain from any way of matching the problematic and intentions of a company, which in recent years has shown a culture which, if anything, affects the smooth functioning of a European democratic country.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u118	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Loverdos, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I would like to express three general thoughts. Firstly, for major investments, but also for minors, the political reason relates to the government's economic policy and the needs of the country. I said that in my prototype. Secondly, you cannot raise issues relating to the absurdity of a company or investor calling for a meeting with the Prime Minister when the Prime Minister with the government plane stops in Paris to see companies, investors, vaguely. Thirdly, by addressing my colleague in the Centro Association you told him about a fan club of entrepreneurs. You have, of course, the experience of Ivan Savvidis who has made your own nightclub, which is why you should consult with my colleague, but do not tell us about this in this House. These are for outside the House. That's funny, in my opinion. There are questions. Questions are very serious. You have been put on the table and you are not answering them. I will repeat them, although I do not think you will do so in your dentistry either, but the citizens need to know exactly what we are talking about. First, did you have to clash with an international audience to sign three permits? Within the next hours of your international conflict, which has given us everywhere, the subject of Eurogroup, you are starting and signing. Did the country have to be humiliated to serve some of your pins if you serve them? Secondly, are you referring to me and indeed to me - will you tell me that here we are telling what we want - the decisions of the Council of State? I have them here. I had not felt that there would be a need to testify. I'm filing them out on nineteen. But I would like them to be photographed and returned to me. I also have a list of these decisions. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Andreas Loverdos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You must know, Minister, that the Council of State has one section, the fifth section, which has been debated in the past and the revision of the 2000 Constitution, with hostile arguments against it for excessive protection of the environment. Of the nineteen decisions I submit to you in the session of the Fifth Chamber, about fourteen are in the fifth section and concern environmental issues. Sometimes people have recourse to environmental protection and they are not justified, sometimes the company, like the current pending case, has the last one, but also the object of which you have put it in arbitration, if I read it well from the press. Questions answered are whether or not the specific concession of the forest is constitutional. Yes, the court says. Everything is environmental or most are environmental. We know the decisions. Make sure you know them, too. Thirdly, you are talking about a few months' delay in two cases from the eight pending permits. Indeed, one is six months old, the other is four months old. It's a renewal of permits. There are six others which are delayed by one thirty-three months, the second thirty-three months, the third nineteen months, the fourth thirteen months, the fifth 12 months and the sixth 20 months. Why don't you just tell them about the oligomenes, these last ones about renewal permits? Do you do the wicked guy? No, since there are letters and letters, numbers and letters, the disagreements are many, they may be, but on numbers two and two do four, whether you say so or I say so. Fourthly, have you worked with Mrs. Connordou on what will happen with the CSA? The CAS delays taking a decision two years, while the issue it is called upon to decide on this is other than what is in the Council of State and is delaying giving its own opinion, its own permission because - he says - there is a loose end to the Council of State. Have you worked with the Minister responsible? Finally, I'll say about the arbitration. I had made an announcement in early August because I had seen the Prime Minister and you talking about arbitration since April. Why did you send the question of arbitration after you had conflicted with an international audience with the company? Why didn't you send it in August? Why didn't you send it in July? I'm thinking of explaining: You're hostile. You were hostile. I am not talking about what various factors of Maximism have now said, the chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, have said. I am also referring to what you and others have said some time ago in the timely question led by the Prime Minister - I referred to it - in the Skourletis statements, 'we are just becoming a government', in the statements of yours which are also written. I'm filing that, too. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Andreas Loverdos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Mr President, the Minister, in 2013, invited to participate in a conference on "The long-term course towards growth: Lessons from the recession", in a letter of his own and Mr. Army said: "We are not coming, because the sponsor at this conference is "ELDORADO". That's not why he's gone. The pretext is that. The decisions are delays. That's exactly what we're living on. The explanation I would like to give - I may not be wrong, but it is an explanation, Minister - is that you throw the cases back, you create delays to complete this investment and to invest in the Greek and other issues relating to the question of SYRIZA's colleague earlier to Mr Papadimitriou. Everything that causes you to vote is going so late that this action can be taken after the elections. You're hurting the country for the benefit of a few votes if you get them too. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. Loverdo. Mr Aristides Fokas has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to clarify that all the tests were carried out in the pilot unit at all rates, not only by seven, but also by four and six. That is all I want to say. I would also like to clarify that these permits you gave to Olympiads have been pending for too many months. This is where I see you've put a trip through the company. You're putting in constant obstacles.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u122	Bring the evidence, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u123	The licenses they have to obtain are enough and very important to move forward and complete the investment in Olympiad. You can't just give permission to dig a tunnel. It takes some time to hand over the license so that they can now make gold and sell. The operation came here to win, came here to grow. It already has ready jobs over a thousand people. We are talking about expensive-paid jobs, about employees who get in 2017 very large sums of money in Greece. They can't stay on the road. I would also like to clarify that on 22 September the Board of Directors in Vancouver has decided that it is now stopping, that the investment in Greece will be frozen. That is very reasonable, because by no longer taking the necessary authorisations, the company cannot be developed. The company has submitted all business plans for the company, a phrase perhaps unknown to some of you in the government. She has submitted all the papers requested to her at the Ministry in time and the licenses remain in your drawers, as well as the licenses you delivered or will be delivered in the next few days are in your drawers and have taken spiders out. You don't want the investment. If you want her out and say so. But the impression you give the world is that you don't want this investment to go forward. You're putting on continuous triples. We must refer to the fact that mines have been working in Halkidiki for over a hundred years. The workers there have in their dna that they're miners. They like work, they love it. We see a development in the whole region, and you go and close the factory and stay two and a half thousand people on the road. I want you to tell us what you will do if you do not give the permits on 22 September. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u124	Thank you very much, Mr. Fokas. The Minister for the Environment and Energy Mr George Stathakis has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u125	I don't have much to add. The evidence doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u126	Minister, I'm being answered by Mr. Maniots on the phone right now. Mr President, can I have a minute's speech at the end?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u127	I don't know if the Minister wants to. I wouldn't mind. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u128	I expect Mr Fokas to present to me the outstanding Olympiada permits. I'm waiting for the list here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u129	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u130	You don't have him, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u131	I've got them here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u132	The same goes for Mr. Loverdos. Let's hear what these licenses are for the Olympiad. You can testify them to find out. I think you've exceeded yourself a little bit compared to the company, because the last list can't be more valid than mine. She is the one I had on 3 August with the "ELELANDNIKI CHRYS". You can't afford to have another list unless you're misinformed by someone or someone and you're beyond the data. When you have evidence, then, testify.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u133	Not for the Olympiad, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u134	Not for the Olympiad?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u135	I didn't say about the Olympiad.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u136	Decide.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u137	Dear colleague, please don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u138	Decide.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u139	It's important for the Squirrels to move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u140	But the Minister has answered that they will go to arbitration. He's answered that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u141	That's where they go to arbitration. For the other...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u142	Mr. Foka, we're speaking Greek. Will you bring me two? There are two of them for the Squirrels. Is that what you're telling me? Did you read the press release? Did you hear that? Was that clear?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u143	I'm watching everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u144	So there are no permits pending indefinitely for months. All this is myths.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u145	Give the licenses! So when you find evidence of how long the authorisation has been delayed to submit it to the House, to discuss the facts. Until then, reproducing your general account and identifiable account of the company is your right, but you are not very helpful in this. Also, you can do whatever analyses you want about what the government wants and what you don't want, etc. The psychoanalyticals are good, but it's good to be analyzed on this particular one. I think that these figures have been submitted in full. Repeat for the multiplier: 100% licence, as promised on 15 September. You got it. All the jobs currently in Skouria are guaranteed. Ensured, without any additional permission. So full job security. Let's go to arbitration to resolve the issue at issue, which, according to the Greek State, is the company's name. So his solution will give the Greek public the benefit. Those of you who want to join with an idea that we are going to rattle the investment stage in half, that the Greek State will be damaged and that environmental conditions will not be met, the road is open, yours. That is not what we, the present government, will not follow.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u146	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u147	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u148	Minister, are you in agreement?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u149	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u150	Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor, in violation, since both parties agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u151	I think we're talking civilized. Mr. Maniotis says that the specific study you referred to has the date of deposit December 2014 on 12-12-2014. Mr. Maniotis, like me, we left the government a few weeks later, why you shot us. When did he get to do all this? She wondered, and she told me to pass it on to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u152	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u153	I will send Mr Maniotis the request for his service to his office, which raises the question that the technical method that exists before, as the technical study admits, must be provided with a pilot run with the specific territories of Skouries and Olympiads.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u154	Thank you very much. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House the issue of Monday 18 September 2017. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 1460/11-9-2017 topical question by the Member of Parliament, Mr Jasona Fotella, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: 'The Local Health Groups (TOMY) in the'requests' by doctors'. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by number 1462/11-9-2017 of the Vice-President of the Parliament and Deputy Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Dangerous lack of cardiologist and surgeon at the Centre for Health of Karpathos". 3. The question by number 1482/12-9-2017 of the Member of Parliament of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Stavros Tassos to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "To stop the validity of the forced price for participation in the examination of the Certification of Original Vocational Training for Graduates of IEK". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 1461/11-9-2017 topical question by MP Magnesia of the New Democracy, Christos Boukorous, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Departure of Panthesaly Stadium in Volos". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 1483/12-9-2017 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Health, concerning the chronic lack of medical staff at the Children's Clinic of the University General Hospital of Heraklion (PAGNI). 3. The 1443/5-9-2017 topical question of the Athens MP, Mr. Spyridonos - Adonidos Georgiadis to the Minister of National Defence, regarding the amount of the objective value of the properties to be used by the Ministry of National Defence. 4. Question No 1380/30-8-2017 by Mr Christophilopoulos, Member of the Republic of Attica, PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "National hospitals". 5. The question asked by MP Serres of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Michail Jeleli to the Minister of National Defence, on “Emanuel Papaloukas camps”. 6. Under No 1293/21-8-2017, a topical question by MP Fthiotidas of New Democracy Mr Christos Stakouras to the Minister of Finance on the financing of actions by criminal actions against the Greek State and the allocation of funds for social purposes. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The current question by No 923/1-6/2017 of the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on "Following the Order of the Nation". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 6534/21-6-2017 by the Independent MEP Mr. Theocharis Theocharis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Traditional Behaviours at the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki". Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-15-S1-commons.u155	With the consent of the House at 12.39 minutes the sitting on Monday 18 September 2017 at 18.00, on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: (a) the topical and urgent debate; and (b) the debate on Question No 14/12/6-3-2017, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
