ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to announce to the House that the Prime Minister and President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, Alexis Tsipras, and a hundred and forty-three Members of his party and the President of the ALS Parliamentary Group, Mr Panos Kammenos and eight Members of his party tabled a proposal for a committee of inquiry into scandals in the health field in 1997-2014, pursuant to Article 68(2) of the Constitution and Articles 144 et seq. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: This proposal will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting, it will be printed and distributed to the Members. Members, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The first question will be discussed under number 656/27-3-2017 in the second cycle of the New Democracy MP, Jason Fotilla, to the Minister of Administrative Reconstruction, on the recruitment of archaeological sites and museums. Mr. Fotella, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, three months ago, and in particular on 13 December 2017, the Prime Minister, Mr. Tsipras, announced from the remote island of Nisyros, including the recruitment of permanent staff through ASP to carry out two hundred posts of certified archaeological guards in the museums and archaeological sites of our country. I must, of course, say that I have no particular confidence in the promises made by the Prime Minister. Indeed, judging by the conclusion of such promises, such as the one that has to do with the closure of the evaluation, I must be more concerned about it. However, for these recruitments, the General Accounting Office of the State has acted positively, and the Minister for Culture, Mr Konordos, is also in agreement, but despite their approval until now, the process of their proclamation by the relevant Ministry has not been started and I therefore address you the question. This delay led the archbishops to protest and forced, I would say, to adopt an extreme measure, in other words to close museums and archaeological sites for a day on 20 February. Furthermore, the archbishops protest why specific laws have been promoted by your Government, in which you are trying to simulate contractual guards, who in some cases do not even possess the formal qualifications, i.e., English or Lyceum Ceiling and have been hired out of the AIP process and work or work with temporary judicial decisions. These are, of course, non-final decisions, which, however, open the way to recruitment, I would say, from the public. Minister, I think you agree with me that it is not possible for tourists to keep their eyes on archaeological sites and museums when they visit our country. We need the revenues of the twenty-eight million tourists that the official bodies have planned this year to visit our country. And because archaeological sites and museums are basic sources of revenue for tourism, but also means of promoting our country abroad, I would like you to answer specifically: Do you intend to proceed with the proclamation of the two hundred permanent staff seats in the archaeological sites and museums sector through ASP? Secondly, what action will you take to ensure that contract staff are legally appointed and in accordance with their formal qualifications in the respective posts that are being procured? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, too. Mrs. Gerovali, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Fotila, it is indeed a great chapter for the country, culture and especially the ancient cultural heritage. Its emergence and exploitation, of course, is a priority for our Government and, as you said, it is necessary that archaeological sites and museums can operate throughout the year and, of course, in particular, as you pointed out, during the tourist season, when their visits are increased. This, as you know, has not been possible until today. The cause is well known, it is a lack of staff, which has been arousing most public services for years, and it is a pleasure that you and other Members of this House recently, and from New Democracy and from PASOK do not follow the usual opposition rhetoric, that is to say, instead of constantly accusing them of recruitment and of increasing recruitment, also raise the issue of being under-secretary, recognising the problem of sub-secretization and I imagine that they are aware of the effort that we are doing to resolve this problem - and I have seen it in many questions lately in parliamentary control - in order to directly address sub-secretory to many bodies, as is today's question of archaeological sites and museums. We are already moving in this direction and taking into account the constraints which exist and the narrow budgetary limits. In this context, I would remind you that in 2015-2016, sixty-seven individuals of various specialties had been recruited to serve archaeological sites and museums, when respectively, only ten such recruitments had been carried out. As you said, the Prime Minister in December announced the two positions of permanent guards throughout Greece with priority and especially for island regions. Therefore, this will cover two hundred empty organic ICP, storage and information posts. They are not two hundred, they are two hundred fifteen, because there was also a request for fifteen empty organic posts in the cultural management sector. Therefore, this is not a announcement. The implementation of the two guards plus the fifteen scientists has already begun. I inform you that it was adopted, as you said, by the General Accounting Office, as well as by our Ministry and has already been included in the programming of recruitments for 2017-2018 and the relevant notice is expected immediately. In other words, the adoption phase of the Ministries' approval by the Ministry of Culture and the General Accounting Office and by our Ministry is expected to start with the procedures for the start-up of the AACC. It is true - as the other part of your question says - that they will be made via ASP and as legally provided for. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] I would therefore like to remind you that our constant pursuit is, on the one hand, to deal with all these subsistence problems that we have inherited, but also to resolve them definitively and legally. I should also like to mention that, until now, in order to meet the immediate needs of archaeological sites and museums, the hiring of three hundred and fourteen people with a working relationship of a certain length of private law lasting seven months, which concerns ratings of daily guards and night watchdogs, has been approved to cover the increased needs, which are now particularly occurring in the tourist season. With regard to the issue of the archbishops referred to in Article 47 of Law 4440, these people, Mr Fotella, are people who have been vindicated in courts of the country. In fact, the stay and the return to the service were also ordered. In any case, of course, we are dealing with this law and merit.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u6	Madam Secretary, you have a second language. Mr. Fotella, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u7	Minister, first of all, it is a good thing that you say that you want these posts to be proclaimed through an APA, the guarantor of legality in the public sector, so that they can be appointed in the respective positions archbishop of increased qualifications, which will meet the requirements of work. And I say that it is good because, unfortunately, your predecessor, Mr Kurublés, was not positive. Rather, it was of the opposite view that all contractors must be permanently integrated, whether or not they have or do not have the formal qualifications. But you have not answered or, at least, you have not been specific as to when we should wait for this notice. It has indeed passed through the General Accounting Office of the State, but this has been a long time now and we are waiting for the notice. Could we hear something more specific? From there on, because you were not clear, I would like a clear answer: Should people who go to these jobs have formal qualifications or do not have to have them? Do the man who's going to find the strangers and tell them two things to know English or doesn't need to know English? Does he have to have a high school graduation certificate or does he have to have a high school graduation certificate? We did not say that anyone should be fired or that the pre-service should not play a role. But must standard qualifications exist in any case? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, too. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u9	Of course there will be formal qualifications, Mr Fotella, except that these qualifications will be determined by the Ministry of Culture on the basis of needs and in cooperation with the AACC. This will obviously be the case, if that is what you mean for the two.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u10	Because there are many contractors, who have not been and have not been definitively justified.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u11	I'll answer you for that, too. In relation to those you are referring to, the archbishops, our Government has indeed given the possibility of relinquishing the public from legal means, in particular by guaranteeing: Firstly, they must have already been justified. They were people who had already been vindicated to a first degree. This was done to avoid chronic judicial disputes. Secondly, we have considered that it serves the public interest, because this ensures lasting care. You will also remember the gap that existed and has been settled under the urgent procedure. This is because it was in danger at the time of staying without care, and the sites where previous contracts ended, such as the Acropolis site. You'll remember the conversation that happened here. Thirdly, this will be done on condition that the need for staffing is specifically justified for the operation and safety of archaeological sites and museums. At the same time, an end was made, with increased guarantees of the suffering of these workers, who, as you know, have experience and expertise. Let me remind you that these workers had participated in notices of recruitment with fixed-term contracts, which had been made in the past on the basis of ASP criteria. They weren't hired without an APA. So the prerequisites had already been met. And, of course, they had been positively evaluated and to some extent vindicated by the courts. Furthermore, their continued employment, in order to avoid the gap, was considered to serve as a service to increase the revenues of the Ministry of Culture, through the expanded operation of museums and archaeological sites, which were automatically guaranteed by this regulation. I should like to inform you here that, until today, none of them have yet been hired has been posted for an indefinite period of time. Not even one! I believe that the process is under way, because it is a process that no longer runs from our Ministry, but from the Ministry of Culture, and of course will be done according to the needs of the Ministry of Culture. For the two hundred permanent archives, there will be the notice immediately. Immediately depends on the procedures of the AACC, which is why I did not answer you when. But they're all ready to start the process. So they will come in this way, as will the two hundred in the new proclamation. I told you we had a thousand three hundred sixteen contractors this year, if I remember. Of course, the next contractors will remove the number of people entering permanent posts or in indefinite time, or the new contract notice, on the basis of the new procedure. So, Mr Fotella, and to close here, I would remind you that what the Prime Minister said when he announced it was so he meant it and implemented it. Confidentiality would be a good thing to be undone automatically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, too. We continue with the second with number 668/28-3-2017 a timely question from the Member of the Greek Communist Party, Mr Emmanuel Synthraki, concerning the payment of the entrants and the prevention of the dismissal of the public contractors in the municipalities. Mr. Synhronakis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the contractors in many municipalities throughout the country are in turmoil and in a lasting hostage. The cause lies in the government's anti-government policy, throughout this legislative institutional framework, with which you implement the declared objective of the European Union for the expansion of flexible labour relations, with further reductions in wage costs. The pretext is the Commissioners, who do not sign the relevant cash orders for the payment of the contractors to the cleaning services, while at the same time being threatened with redundancies, despite the extension of their work to 31-12-2017. For example, in the Municipality of Thessaloniki there are seven hundred thirty contractors. Also, in the municipalities of Western Thessaloniki, Elosmos, Delta, Oreokastro, Ambelia - Meneme, in the municipalities of the Prefectures of Pieria, Kavala, Rodopi, Dramas, in the FOSDA of Central Macedonia and the Municipality of Kassandra, in Crete, in the Municipality of Heraklion and Agios Nikolaos, in Corinth, in Agios and elsewhere. The provisions of Article 16 of Law 4429/2016, which the Government has brought in and extended the contracts up to 31/12/2017, as well as the recent Law 4456/2017 on contractors’ prizes, have not solved the problem. On the contrary, he extended it. In fact, your JRC had warned that the extension of contracts in itself does not respond to the problem of large deficits in permanent staff in critical municipal services, such as cleaning. Our party's parliamentary group had submitted a timely amendment to various bills from 2015 until recently, in February 2017, for the conversion of these contracts automatically into contracts of indefinite duration. Something, of course, that you did not accept, because you just wanted to get time, to reassure workers, not to claim the right to permanent and stable work. There's no other explanation. And the government is solely responsible for this development, so that today hundreds of workers are either redundant or redundant. And of course, the government has shown such examples of anti-galactic politics and writing, of course, as long as it governs. From this point of view we think that this invoicing of the Court of Auditors' decision or the constitutional empire of the twenty-four-four-four months can only be a challenge for the workers, when at the same time you pay tribute to the monopolistic groups.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u14	You've got a second one, Mr. Synhronakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u15	I shall conclude, Mr President. The questions we ask are very specific. What measures will you take so that: Do not let any contractor be fired and any redundancies made, of course, are withdrawn? To pay the contractors directly? Should all contracts be converted into an indefinite period and all required new recruitment be done with state funding? Of course, there will be no privatization of the services of the municipalities, because this development will lead to the privatization of cleaning services.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u16	You have the floor, Minister, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Synthyriakis, I have heard him think at times and I understand the sensitivity to a real problem, those few, fortunately, who are denied by either the mayors to prolong contracts which are legally obliged, or others to pay because there are decisions by the Commissioners who do not accept the specific costs. What I do not understand is that the problem is due to the anti-government policy of the government. Did you say that, did I hear that right? You tell the government that decided to extend the contracts until 31/12/2017, so that there is an uninterrupted provision of this cleaning service to the municipalities, which has made specific legislation, where the mayor refuses to comply with the law, that he conducts an anti-virtual policy. That's what you understand. It's not serious. But be careful to see, I do not understand, do you at the moment adopt the arguments of those who speak of the unconstitutionality of this regulation, when the majority of the Commissioners do exactly the opposite? So where and where did this thing come from? Watch something else. The reference to the twenty-four-four months that you say, which does not exist in the Constitution - the Constitution does not state that there is a maximum contract for twenty-four months, a presidential decree that states it and was a specific presidential decree that did not involve the will of the legislator at that time - in no case does it concern contracts that have been approved before the end of the twenty-fourth month and are under way. So there's no excuse for not applying the law. We have said so to all tons, and in particular the Ministry of Interior has sent a circular to decentralised government which calls on it to take all legal actions and to control those mayors who refuse to prolong contracts or to pay the workers. I'm tabling this cylindrical and the Minutes. [[At this point, Minister Panagiotis (Panos) Skourletis submits for the minutes the above-mentioned circular, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] However, we are talking here about an existing social problem of decades, that of contractors and it is not only about the cleanliness that have been extended to 31-12-2017. It's about thousands of people and you know it. You're coming here and suggesting something that you know is unconstitutional. Well, let's bring tomorrow's law and say that the fixed-term contracts are automatically transformed into indefinite. It'll be unconstitutional, yes or no? It'll be and you know it. So why, at the moment, are you mocking the workers and refusing to participate in another initiative, which you know is under way and there have been statements of mine and Mrs Gerovalis, which I have on my right now, that the government really intends to take the initiative? And here we invite you to stand positively against this initiative to see which categories of contractors ultimately hide another relationship than you call the "working contract"? What has been abused on the basis of the European directive on the concept of a fixed-term contract? And over there really reveal the real employment relationships. It is a political initiative that we have announced. We will be in a reasonable period of time ready to present it. And that's where you're going to have to be. For saying in general and vaguely that we need to do something that forbids the Constitution, is frankly not convincing at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u18	Mr. Synhronakis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u19	We are aware, Mr President, when we say that the government has shown signs of anti-government writing. Firstly, it has not given a single euro from the budget for the extension of workers' contracts for cleaning, covering the established needs of the municipalities. This had to be the sole responsibility of the state. On the contrary, what are they doing? They're transferring responsibility to the municipalities, the ball, that is, there. They are transferring costs to the public by way of compensation fees. If that's not an anti-American, what is it? Philolic? Is that a charity policy? In fact, I will bring you an example, the decision of the Municipality of Heraklion, which states that the municipality will pay the contractors by April 7, although. Apart from the fact that it is a ruthless decision - I wish people would be paid for - except that it does not guarantee jobs, it gives the government and those mayors who belong to your parties, who embrace this policy, to pass on to the citizens' conscience that they must put their hand in the pocket deeper if they want to have a work and a service. In the final analysis, in order not to dilute their city, "hey, let's give it to individuals, let's give the service of cleanliness to the private." So if that is a friendly policy, I beg your pardon, the words have lost the point. From that point on, the government is doing the same thing: it takes its tail off the outside. What did you say? You said so. You say, 'We have increased the institutional potential'. You call Constitution, Laws, European Directives and what do you say? On the one hand - you have said this - there is the Constitution, which rightly prohibits the conversion of contractors into indefinite terms and on the other - on the other hand - European legislation and Directive 1999/70 speaks of non-use of contracts. So when the Community directive says this, it actually leads to the closure of contracts. So here's how the government and you, Minister, are trying to get on top of you to earn time by intoxication, involving both the Court of Auditors and the mayors. So here's how you've made them a ball for the workers between the government, the Court of Auditors and mayors who embrace this policy. For your anti-government policy, I will also remind you of the following: The ban on the legalisation of contractors, as provided for in Article 103 of the Constitution, had been passed in 2001 by the New Democracy, the PASOK and the coalition at that time, with the exception of the Communist Party of Greece. So here's how this anti-Fragian, anti-Fragic complicity is exposed to the detriment of workers, who have been thrown into a lasting hostage for years. At the same time, it also reveals the strategic convergence of yours with the other parties, with the Greek Industrial Association, with the European Union, with the International Monetary Fund on key issues, such as liberalisation of the labour market, which you are discussing with the partners at this time when the second assessment is closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u20	Finish it, Mr. Synergy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u21	I shall conclude, Mr President. The workers must not fall into these traps of the government, which turns through the engagement now. In practice, however, it is tending to overthrow all the industrial relations - what remains - to move towards complete liberalisation of the labour market.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u22	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u23	Mr Synthyriakis, you are consistent with a well-known concept, which in the end does not even understand the meaning of their own self-interest. Here we heard that you suddenly want all municipalities and workers to become state agencies. This has nothing to do with our own concept of self-government. I wonder what you're saying. Not even your own people say it in the area of self-government, the people elected with the support of the JRC. You know that people who work in cleanliness are paid by the reward fees. What do you deny? The concept of competitivity in these fees? You want to get paid out of the state budget? You know, too - and that you should recognise - that we have fought to prevent cleanliness from being given to private business forces. You know that very well. This is where there is room for coincidence and cooperation, precisely so that speculation is not made, which is an obligation of the self-government itself. One of the first things - of course not only that - which self-government needs to deal with is cleanliness issues. Of course, you can give me the opportunity to say this: The issues of cleanliness and specific contractors are one of the issues on which the CED has not been placed, obviously because there are forces in there, which are in direct consultation with the Civilian Opposition Party, which indeed see the issue of waste as the scope of a new speculative action. This perception is completely contrary to our own efforts and opinions on how to deal with these issues. You said about the European directive. It is precisely the European directive that wants to put an end to people, such as the woman I saw, when I was in Paranesti a month ago, working for fourteen years in the 'Help at Home' programme with renewed conventions. So I ask you: is he a contractor or is he something else? We need to reveal and restore this woman's real employment relationship and dozens of other workers, "Help at Home", at children's stations, etc.Huh? There are many thousands of such cases. In these cases, then, we cannot tell them "Come and turn your contract into an indefinite one", when we know that we are blocked by the Constitution. However, it can be said that this working relationship which they had so far been in the name of a contract, on the basis of European legislation, which I see you have not understood. If you'd understood it, you wouldn't say what you're saying now. So keep your views and your purity and let us be able to exploit whatever potential there are and create a front which will indeed come to break this long-term hostage of workers. So here, very soon you will be invited to take a seat too. So let the tones in general, with great words and high intensity, but who do not respond to the issues of the very lives of these people, who cannot be held hostage.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u24	Thank you. Now we will discuss the seventh under number 631/21-3-2017 a topical question by the MP of Heraklion, the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nikolaos Igoumenides, to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the replacement - extension of the existing damaged water supply network of the city of Heraklion Crete. Mr. Igoumenides, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, since last summer, after consultation with all the stakeholders, the work of replacing - expansion of Heraklion's water network has been resolutely put on the table for the first time. It is a project that should have taken precedence over many others, but the previous governments, as you know, have given priority to other programmes, some of them without social effect. The current government has put such an important social project on the agenda. Last December the Prime Minister himself from Heraklion officially announced the work, indicating that it is an extremely important infrastructure project for the city of Heraklion, but that most of it is overtimed for implementation. In addition, it was stressed by the Prime Minister himself that the project is assessed to advance its integration into the NSRP, as well as that your Ministry is working on the overall financial scheme, which, in addition to the NSRF, will include resources from the Public Investment Programme and leverage from other financial sources. It is a three hundred-km project of a total water supply network and 25m euros of budget. You have already been presented by the Public Water and Wastewater Undertaking of Heraklion with the relevant studies to replace a part, to extend the water network to two sections, to the Ilioupoli region and to the areas of Delina - Academia - Alikarnassos, to projects of a total budget of EUR 4.5 million and to sixty km of a water network. At the same time, there are already tender documents for the construction of water supply and sewerage networks. It is the only part which, because of the region's drought - narrow roads - is incomprehensible not to involve water supply and sewerage in the Chrysoppigi area, five and a half kilometres of network and a 2 million euro budget. I would point out - and I conclude, Mr President - that there is also a need for a change of water measures, a budget of 1 million as a whole. The responsibility of this reality is borne by the previous governments, but it is indeed unacceptable in the second decade of the 21st century, in one of Greece's most populated and tourist cities with a heavy contribution to the country's GDP, in the Municipality of Heraklion, to fill up home tanks or stay for hours in the summer without water. I would therefore like to ask, firstly, what stage is the process of implementing the work which the current government has carried out for the first time? Secondly, I would like you to tell me, if you can, how much money will come from the NSRF, how many of the Public Investment Programme and what the leverage from other financial sources will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, too. Mr. Haritsis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Igoumenides, I am starting with a revulsion of your word towards the end of your speech. It is really unacceptable that what we are discussing today, in 2017, for very important infrastructure projects such as this project, that of Heraklion's water supply, projects that should have been carried out for decades. You will allow me to say that when we talk about growth, we cannot take into account the fact that growth can only be of a decentralised character, it cannot restore injustices that have been made over the years over the past few years with projects that are very important both for the development prospects of local societies and for the quality of life of residents throughout the country. Of course, this also applies to these projects. Our government from the first moment recognised the importance of this project in the most official way, from the Prime Minister himself, as you said. I will tell you in particular what steps we have taken to tackle this problem which, like so many others, has been inherited. Since September 2016, the construction of the water supply networks in the area of Agios Ioannis Heraklion, costing 1,4 million euros, has been completed and a substantial part of the new water supply network in Heraklion, at a cost of 2,4 million euros, has been repaid. At the same time, because of the fact that such an important and complex project with a very large budget, as you yourself mentioned, which exceeds EUR 20 million, we need to see if we want to make a comprehensive plan for its implementation, by combining different financial sources, I would like to tell you that this time it is running, the evaluation of the ESDP programme, the EMEA, for the three proposals submitted by the IDA of Heraklion to replace and extend the water supply network in the areas of Ilioupoli and Deilina, the Academy and Alikarnassos, with a total budget of approximately EUR 6 million. This part of the project will be implemented exclusively and entirely at public expense. You also implied in your question - and this is something important - that additional resources should be found for the full implementation of the project. That is why we are moving forward and ensuring the funding of the region of Crete as well, so that a part of this project can also be implemented through the regional programme. Therefore, 2 million euros will be provided from the national part of the Public Investment Project in the region of Crete in the current year, 2017, to finance new replacement and expansion projects in the city of Heraklion. At the same time, we have launched an important programme with the Treasury and Loan Fund, an integrated programme for the financing of infrastructure projects in municipalities. This programme includes beyond the funding side and a process of standardisation of studies. These, you know, projects often have repetitive features. So what we have is the possibility of standardising the studies so that the municipalities can also obtain know-how and favourable funding through lending, is a very important development in our view. In order not to get far - we will also be talking about dentistry - I think that by making use of all these financial resources, of course, in cooperation with the two levels of self-government, we will move very quickly on the implementation of this very important project, which has been pending for decades for the fifth largest municipality of the country, Heraklion, Crete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u28	Mr. Igoumenides, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u29	Minister, thank you for your answers. The fact is that the government is serious - at least it seems from your answer - and the question of funding so that the project can go ahead. If you want, let me even say a final development for the world that is watching us today. It is about Heraklion DESCRIPTION, although it is not about your Ministry immediately. Despite the relevant ministerial decisions and the relevant arrangement for the debts of DYSH, additional surcharges of several million euros have been charged which have become due. If you ask the people responsible, they will tell you that they come from debts - ghosts, from the sinful decades of 1990 and 2000 - sins which we unfortunately find before us today. We are in contact with the Ministry of Finance - I told you that it is not your Ministry - and the Ministry of Interior to find a solution and to respect both the letter and the spirit of the legislator. I mention this and it seems that we have good news and good news for Heraklion. I say this to say that we are indeed in the hands of the past, against which we fight every day. Indeed, I believe that by financing the work that we are discussing, we are making the necessary excesses to move to a new era for Heraklion and its citizens. As far as you are concerned, we are in constant contact with the relevant Directorate-General for Investment and the ESDP - since the first time they have been fundamentally interested in the issue of Heraklion's water supply - but also with the stakeholders in the county, monitoring the project step by step. Because I do believe that today's debate is of importance and is being followed with interest by the citizens and operators of Heraklion, on the basis of your answers, I do not know if I am well aware, but I imagine that the first, the overtime works I have mentioned and in my prototype are ready to begin. I would like, Minister, if you can, to answer what steps the municipality and the region have to take from now on - so that we can see it - and tell us when you really see the start of the projects, that is, whether these first projects and the funding you mentioned are going to start from next month, not to say from him.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u30	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. You will allow me to begin by making a more general comment. One problem that has been raised in the past is the fact that too many projects, while we can all agree on their feasibility and others, have shown too low degrees of maturity. That is why we in the NSRP also had to proceed with the resolution of many projects, which could not be implemented in the previous programming period, and in the national part of the Public Investment Programme at the end of 2016, to move towards reallocation of funds between ministries and regions, so that we can absorb all the money we had available from the National Public Investment Programme. I would remind you that at the end of the year the regions were given a total of 300 million in 2016, money which is precisely about this redistribution effort, to carry out mature projects. So I come now on the occasion of what I have just said to this. So mature studies, the pieces of work - because it is obviously a project that requires a comprehensive plan with various parts, if you like, implementation phases - can be implemented from the money that will be provided by us. The national part of the Public Investment Programme has committed this resources. So the region can immediately start implementing these sections, such as, of course, the municipality can, by addressing the Deposit and Loan Fund, get the funding it needs to start implementing that piece of study. What is, of course, important is that part of this project will also be implemented by the NSRF. I told you that the evaluation procedure for the three proposals submitted by the JHA Iraklios is now being completed, in order to implement the projects as well from that part. We therefore have a comprehensive financial arrangement in our hands. This is important, that for the first time for such a large and complex project we have a comprehensive financing scheme, involving all grades, if you like, of management, such as grade 1 of self-government, grade 2, central state, both in design and funding of this project. This, in our view, is the important thing. In that sense, we will continue. I would remind you that from the NSRF programmes, the NSRF programme, the infrastructure, transport and environment programme, calls have already been issued with exclusive beneficiaries of municipalities exceeding EUR 500 million for the implementation of such infrastructure projects across the country. We will continue in this direction. And to tell you, if you want, something that is the result of the discussions over the last few days, because it is precisely because we see that the needs are too important in Heraklion, but also in the municipalities throughout the country, we are also committing, in cooperation with the competent services of the European Commission, a significant part of the money in the ESDP review clause that we will receive in the second half of 2017, amounting to EUR 100 million, precisely for the implementation through the HMERA of such projects. I think, therefore, that this project is a good example of how proper planning, cooperation between stakeholders, to the extent and to the extent that it is appropriate, can lead to such important projects for local communities. In the next few months, therefore, the implementation of this important project will begin in the coming months and the commitment we made before the people will be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u32	Thank you. Due to lack of competence, the first question under number 655/27-3-2017 will not be discussed for the first time in the House of Parliament 2 Athens, Nea Ekaterini Papakostas - Ironopoulou, Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on security in parcel shipping. In the absence of the relevant Foreign Ministers, the sixth will not be discussed under number 569/7-3-2017, a topical question for the second cycle of the MP Argolida of the Democratic Assent of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Manatis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the activation of the decision on the pilot study of the Argos' Zone of Economic Control (ZOE). The question is addressed to Mr Stathakis, who is absent abroad. This absence is also the reason why the nineteenth will not be discussed under number 576/7-3-2017 a timely question for the second cycle of MP II Thessaloniki of the Independent Greeks Mr. George Lazarides to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on supporting the employment and production of Greek industries. The absence of Mr Apostle abroad is the reason why the fifth under number 530/24-2-2017 is not being discussed with regard to the retention of part of the OPEKEPE grants due to the failure to pay the GEO. Due to the obstruction of the questioner, the 20th question under number 601/14-3-2017 will not be discussed at the second time by the Member of Parliament of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, to the Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the recognition of a pre-service to ERT SA for the officials of Presidential Decree 164/2006. Due to the impediment of the competent ministers, the second question under number 643/21-3-2017 will not be discussed in the first cycle, the Member of the Atolokarnania of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the support and upgrading of the TEI Mesology. Also, for the same reason, the fourth question under number 504/20-2-2017 is not discussed in the Second Cycle of the People's League MP - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Papapas to the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on "the fulfilment of the Nation's Tomb". The same reason is for the cancellation of the eleventh under number 602/14-3-2017 of the second cycle of MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the licences of the assistants of teachers, as well as the twelfth question under number 572/7-3-2017 of the second cycle of the MP of Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARK Vassilios Kegeroglou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the issue of presidential decrees for the recognition of the professional rights of graduates TEI. Kolymas, Deputy Minister of Interior, Mr Nikolaos Toskas, is the cause of the non-summary of the third, with number 659/27-3-2017, on the first-round question by MP, Athens, the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Ilias Panayotarou, to the Minister of the Interior, on the irresponsible action of Turkish agents and their representatives in Thrace. The third question will now be discussed under number 579/10-3-2017, a topical question by the Member of Parliament, Etolokarnania, of the New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Karagunis, to the Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, concerning the decongestion of prisons and the increase in crime. Mr. Karaguni, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u33	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, those who have been through the Ministry of Justice and especially the very sensitive area of the penitentiary and prisons, are well aware of the difficulties and, of course, of the challenges that the system has. You see it every day, as do the Secretary-General here with you. The issue of prison overpopulation is not a matter now. All the governments have done so and have done so, I have to say, many efforts to modernise, but also, of course, to improve human conditions in prisons. The question is to have an overall picture and an overall plan to address this problem. Because I would remind you that, at least in 2012, when I served at the Ministry of Justice, we had introduced very specific initiatives in this direction. For example, I will mention that we had then opened the rural prisons, where we had sent over eight hundred prisoners, making a first decongestion in prisons, of course lowering the limits. We had brought the institution of electronic bracelets and it has been two years and, unfortunately, you have done nothing in this direction. We had opened up the penitentiaries in Chania and the wings in Nigrita, to the logic of dealing with the problem as a whole. We had promoted social work. What do we see you've done for the last two years, Minister? Not you personally, but your government, of course. In this we cannot have a logic'suffers the hand and cut off the hand'. Because I have the feeling that with the Law of Friday this is true. Because, in any case, we have never played with the security of our citizens, Minister. The reason for the question is you know what it is. It is a recent incident of a criminal, released on the basis of the beneficial provisions of the Act of Friday, committing the murder of the unfortunate pensioner in Northern Greece. And I have to say that this is not the only case. It is a lot of examples. I will mention them and then. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] But the evidence, Minister, is revealing. With Law No.4322/2015, namely the Law of Friday, and Law No.4411/2016, with which extension has been given, the number of detainees has now arrived - you will also tell us the current data - around nine thousand three hundred fifty nine. Not much, according to official evidence from your Ministry, which you have given not you, but Mr. Paradoxopoulos, to a recent question from Mr. Dendias, there have been seven thousand six hundred seventy-four releases. Here I have the relevant table, which I shall be tabling in the Minutes. [[At this point the Member, Mr Konstantinos Karagkounis, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In the answer he gave...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u34	You have your dentistry, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u35	I shall conclude, Mr President. In the reply given by the Ministry of Justice, Mr. Paradigmopoulos spoke of a major evacuation that brought to the penitentiary system. That was the answer. So the question is: What are you going to do with the Law of Friday? Tell us specifically. And tell us if you have any overall plan to address this problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u36	The Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Mr. Kontonis, has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, you have tabled a question, and you do not even clarify the text of the question, so that we can answer it with the fullness required, if this criminal, as you say, was released, since he was convicted of a court or if he had to be temporarily detained. You are not clarifying these matters to us. I would like to tell you that, not only did you not tackle and solve the problem in your day, but the problem over your days has increased at such a point that the country has been punished repeatedly by the European Court of Justice, with fines reaching and exceeding EUR 2 million. If that's your contribution and that's how you dealt with the problem, I don't know what else we can imagine. What I want to say to you is that the law, which you are invoking, has enabled prisoners to be released into specific categories. These were the minors, the disabled and the host foreigners, who in any case, after a period of sentence, would anyway be free. I would like to tell you, therefore, that it is a matter of populism to come to the House today, invoke an incident, to say that, anyway, there is a problem with public security. And it is a element of populism, Mr Colleague, and for one more reason. Because you, in 2014, had passed a law with the same reasoning, under which free convicted drug cases could be released, with a sentence of more than ten years, namely drug trafficking. So I don't fall into this trap of populism. So I say that in this way a decongestion occurred in prisons. You have misinterpreted - I have said so on several occasions in the House, but you do not follow me - the numbers you refer to. We received from you, from the Samara Government, about ten and a half thousand prisoners, and at this point they are about nine thousand five hundred. Therefore, do not confuse those who would in any case have been released because they had served much of their sentence under the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure. In fact, I also told Mr Dendia that, regardless of whether it was the SYRIZA government, they would have been fired in any case, and you would have been government. Therefore, do not sum this up and do not show a number of detainees 15 thousand, as you mentioned in your question. The exact number you should know, because you've nursed in the Justice Department. It was 11 and a half thousand.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u38	You've got a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u39	The question here is, therefore, that, apart from the fact that a balance has been reached and a management of this situation, which has exceeded every limit, not only has the country created structures in detention stores, but is no longer at risk from convicts from the European Court of Justice, which, on your day, came one after another and instead of giving this money where we are ultimately forced by the rulings of the European Courts, it would be better to use it in structures to make detentions genuinely penitentiary. I shall continue in my dentistry, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u40	Mr. Karagkounis has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u41	Minister, I really don't believe in my ears! I am surprised by your answer. No, you're not just repenting about the Law of Friday, but obviously you're implying that you're going to continue with it as it is. You can clarify it in your dentistry, so we can understand what you're saying. People's element, it says, is my question. Minister, listen to some examples and incidents. Georgian Roberto Sochakian, served years of imprisonment for property and drugs offences. Use the beneficial provisions of Friday, he went out of prison and killed the twenty-seven-year-old jeweler in Thessaloniki. Second example: Georgian robbers served ten years of imprisonment for robberies and illegal weapons, went out with the Law of Friday and murdered the restaurant in Hydra. Don't you know that evidence, Minister? Keep it up to date.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u42	But what do you say, Mr. Comrade? Did they come out on the basis of beneficial provisions?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u43	Do you know the incident with the Afghan, Mr. Kontonis, which also served a ten-year prison sentence for attempted homicide and robbery and killed the nineteen-year-old in Germany and created a diplomatic incident between the two countries? Do you know that? Is that evidence of populism? The incident with Nigerian, which recently emerged - also in ten years' imprisonment for robbery - and terrorised areas in Kipseli, Agios Panteleimon, in the Vineyards, you know that? And you're saying it's a element of populism? You should go and tell their people, who lost their people, if that's part of populism, what I'm asking you to do. It is very serious what I say to you, Mr Kontonis, but I see that you have no intention of making any adjustments, at least to say that something has gone wrong. Is that the plan to tackle the problem? What if 15 thousand went to nine thousand? There's a certain way, Mr. Contonis, to do that. Promote, as I said, the electronic bracelet, to do social work, to dismantle prisons, to open shops. I told you before: Does it hurt your hand, cut your hand? Really, I'm surprised by your answer. I expect further clarification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u44	You have the floor, Mr. Contonis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u45	Mr President, instead of being surprised by my fellow Member, it would be useful to see what the government, in which he has been involved, has done in prisons. It has given us a situation that - I repeat - we are in front of constant condemnations of the country, unless it sees the value of what has been done, that is to say, that the country should be dragged to the European Court of Justice and condemned by accusations which go beyond any rule of law. I would therefore like to say to you, Mr President, that from these examples you have mentioned, half of them are not Friday's law, as far as the beneficial provisions are concerned, which the government has also introduced into what you have already legislated. It was the two cases, of which I know one. For the other part, you do not tell us what case it is, if it was doomed. This fog is still in your question. If you want, tell us sometime if you were convicted, if you had to be a temporary prisoner, unless you don't know and ask questions in general, 'in the air'. What matters - and I tell you for once - is that there are prisoners who, regardless of the extra provisions of the Act of Friday, would have been released under the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, as they apply. You don't want to understand it. You sum up all this and raise the number of detainees to 15 thousand, while I tell you that the situation you delivered us was not as bad as you describe it. It was 11,000 five hundred. Understood. I'm telling you, if you want to understand that, because if you had fifteen thousand prisoners in these prisons, then we're talking about colleges, Mr. Colleague, literally. So what I want to say is not to tell us to repent. I don't know if you're affected by the climate of the Great Week coming! If anyone has to repent, you are the inhumane conditions in prisons, which have existed for so many years and for the total inability to establish a framework and a strategy for prisons. For example, Mr. Colleague, what have you done with the Penitentiary Code? Nothing! What have you done about a strategy plan to address the problems? Nothing! You're talking about the geo-education system, the bracelet. The bracelet is valid. Anyone who wants to use, use and the judicial authorities are promoting it. As far as the issue of rural prisons is concerned, we are extending what we have received. We have said that immediately, women's rural prisons will work. Is all this for you unknown? You don't know them? And well, you don't know the government's policy we've quoted on several occasions. What are you doing, don't you know? Don't you know where you brought the penitentiary stores? I would therefore like to tell you once again that decongestion for us is not the purpose, but the means, in order to achieve better living conditions for prisoners, but also the means of action. At this time, Mr President - and you do not know this - there is an attempt to be in all the second opportunity penitentiary schools. In fact, I have received today - and this is why I have with me - a book of prison poems, with a very warm dedication, precisely because there is the possibility of such actions being taken in prisons, because for us, the prisons area must be an area of detention and the restoration of certain values, which for some people have been temporarily lost. Mr President, I would like to end by pointing out, among other things, because I have asked myself about the extension of the Law of Friday, that of course the law will continue. I would like to stress that, apart from the exceptions already provided for in the case of people who have suffered a felony of sexual abuse by minors, which the law already provides and cannot make use of the beneficial provisions, we are considering extending this to the cases of homicides which have certain characteristics, such as rape. I would therefore like to tell you that the government takes all the measures it needs. There is an absolute institutional shield in the legislative framework. In any case, if we are talking about what you are asking - which you have not yet explained to us - whether it was a handicapped person who is described in your question, the certification that there was a disability has been made by a state institution. Therefore, if it has committed a second offence, then you are well aware that it cannot make use of any more beneficial provisions. What I want to say to you is that right now in the penitentiary stores in Greece there is an extensive network of actions and policies, not to decongested, but to restore these institutions to prisons, so that these people, who are detained, are attributed to society, without the possibility of returning, that is, without the possibility of being subjected to new offences. We are aware that some of them - internationally in force - will be subject to offences. This does not mean, however, that a penitentiary policy should be suspended, which, Mr Colleague, has already yielded fruit. So you can make a visit to the penitentiary and see how bad you handed it over and what state it is today. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, thirty-four students and students and two educational attendants from the 3rd High School of Ierapetra. We welcome the girls! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The sixth question under number 552/3-2017, on the definite state of health, will not be discussed by the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Pavlos Polakis, as a result of the blockade of the Deputy Minister of Health. For the same reason, the ninth question of the second cycle of the MP Evros of the New Democracy will not be discussed. Anastasios Prussias Prussias, with regard to the tragic deficiencies at the Dumos Hospital, leading to a contraction, depreciation and degradation, as well as the tenth question of the second cycle of the MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emanouil Covenant to the Minister of Health, concerning the problems of the Psychiatric Clinic of the General Hospital of Chania "Agios GEORGIOS". The eighth Question No 641/21-3-2017, by Mr Christos Katsotis, on the sale of the "National Insurance", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment - the reason is obvious - of the Minister of Finance, Euklidis Tsakalotou. For the same reason, the eighteenth, under number 584/13-2017, a topical question by MP Kilkis of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Hadjisavvas to the Minister of Finance, concerning the irrational sale of the profitable Egnatia Road SA, will not be discussed. The fourteenth under number 479/14-2-2017, a topical question for the second cycle of the People's League MP - Golden Dawn Mr.Nikolaou Michou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the charging of marine ecosystems in the Mediterranean with radioactive waste, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr. Socrates Famelou. The seventeenth under number 571/7-3-2017 topical question by the Independent MEP, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of Economy and Development, on "the case of beer and whether there are jurors in the Competition Committee", will not be discussed by the Minister of Economy and Development, Mr. Papadimitriou. The fifteenth under number 568/6-3-2017 topical question from the Second Athens MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Helen Zaroulias to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject "The Municipality of Kavala legalizes the pseudo-state in tourist exhibition in Constantinople", also will not be discussed. The thirteenth question under number 596/13-3-2017 is a topical question for the second question of Athens of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Helen Zarulias to the Foreign Minister, on the subject "The World Bank "characterizes" the Aegean in Turkey, will not be debated due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr.Ioannis Amanatidis, who will participate in a conference in Thessaloniki.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u47	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u48	About what?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u49	Please, because there are two topical questions I have tabled and they have been postponed, and it is the third and fourth time they are postponed, I would like to say a few words. Before that, however, I would like to make one thing clear. Every time Golden Dawn is attacked with axes and molotov bombs, we take lessons of democracy from all of the constitutional arch.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u50	It has nothing to do with the cancellation of your question. You don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u51	Why don't I have the floor? Can you remove my word? Don't get exhausted! I have a right to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u52	Now we will discuss the fourth question by number 669/28-3-2017, first question by the Member of Parliament, Etolokarnania of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the danger of the national network of Amphisia - Lefkada - Preveza - Igoumenitsa. Mr. Moraite, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the KKE once again brings to Parliament the great problems that the existing road network connects Amphilosia, Lefkada, Corfu, Igoumenitsa and Preveza. We have been talking about a road network that has been built for forty years and today does not meet any standards for the modern needs of drivers and passengers. And rightly so, this network is called by the inhabitants of the region as a new'milk petal'. And I'll explain why. Over the last ten years on this road network there have been a thousand six hundred road accidents, of which many deadly, over thirty have been. In fact, I don't know if you have in mind that today, a few hours ago, we had a fatal accident. Like I said, the dead are over thirty and the wounded two-two. Minister, today there were five traffic accidents in the area and a fatal one. Already at the Hospital of Agrinio there is a dead man, the driver of the truck who, unfortunately, because of your criminal responsibilities, and the previous ones were added to the long list of the dead. Minister, as I said, this road network is about sixty years old. At no point has a separating sediment, while there is nowhere lighting, even in the most dangerous places. Finally, there is no crossing that can be distinguished at any point. Minister, do not you, like the previous ones - and I say this to prevent you - call it next door to a new road, the Ambrosia-Aktio axis, which will dismantle the existing road network. First of all, I would like to say that this road axis has become a 'bridge of Arta'. It was built with a time horizon in 2013, but all contractors have been stopped for some time. It will go to a tender - a broom, while from information we have, it will arrive in 2020 and we see. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] But, Minister, we would like to point out that even if the Ambraia-Aktitude road is built, the existing network must be maintained, because it will be used by whole areas, whole villages, as they are outside the Ambrose-Aktika-Aktion road. I don't know if you know the area, but the Sparta is out of Amphilogy, like the Old Bells outside Vonica. We therefore consider that it is imperative to maintain this road network. Of course, we have no delusion, because the situation in which it is today stems from your anti-popular policy that is that the state budget does not build networks for people's needs. On the contrary, you are giving - as you have done recently last Wednesday, with an amendment - bonamadas, like the previous ones who extended concession contracts, to the great manufacturers because, as you say, they did not collect the tolls they wanted. And you tell them that through the state budget, money will be given to the concessionaires through the Public Investment Programme. We believe that there must be a case for the residents themselves to fight for another policy, where there will be a national construction sector that will make works not on the basis of profits, but in order to satisfy people's needs.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u55	I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. And, unfortunately, Minister, with your policy and you and the previous ones fill up tolls and make transport an extremely expensive right. We are therefore asking you, in particular, whether you will go ahead with financing for the repair of this road. And I come to a final point, Mr Minister, since you have recently visited the area and we know that you went to the Ambros-Aktiou road and specifically to the point where it joins the Ionia Road with the Ambros-Aktiou Road. We ask you to grant the section that will bypass Amphichia - which is the most dangerous point where the fatal accidents are today - so that from the link that Ionian Road will be to Loutraki. Minister, we must immediately deliver this piece of the Ammura-Aktika road line. But you must commit yourself here today, because the place cannot stand any more dead. You must be committed to repairing the existing road network.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u56	I plead to that last one, too. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u57	Mr President, before I move on to your question which contains two questions, I would like to make a few comments on the general context you have raised. You spoke of criminal responsibilities, of our own and of the previous ones, and you said that we and the previous ones fill up the toll, but also in general we and the previous ones and all that we have experienced, and so on. I can understand the line that the Communist Party of Greece wants to put in relation to its differentiation, but because the JRC is not a populist opposition party, but is the Communist Party of Greece, I would ask you - if anything - not to level, if you want, your criticism of what is going on in the works, but more generally what is going on in the country. I'll start with one of the things you said: First of all, we didn't give anyone a booth. We cut bonuses that were provided for under the contracts. Secondly, we do not fill the toll, because these are in the contracts that we have found. If we were to go unilaterally to abolish them, the country would only need a memorandum on motorways. They are neither new toll stations nor what you say about compensation. I'd tell you it's just backwards. We found damages of 1,250,000,000, 764,000,000, these damages were cut. If the projects were not completed and we were not pressing to alleviate various anti-social actions that were in place, and we went to reason with your own, then we would need 4,000,000,000 to return to the European Commission, 2,500,000 to the concessionaires and 2,000,000 to the clauses. A total of 8,500,000 euros. It's a little more than a memorial. Well, I guess neither would you. Secondly, obviously we can agree ideologically that public works should not be done for the profits of companies and their profitability, but for the sake of people's needs. But this in another system. You can't operate within a capitalist system in the applied policy and only have that principle. Unfortunately, you have more. Now I will answer the question you raised, to see how unfair you are. Firstly, we do not have responsibility as a Ministry for maintenance on the specific routes you ask us, namely Amphilogy - Vonica - Lefkada, Preveza - Igoumenitsa and Vonica - Preveza. I would like to present to you the corresponding VETs, according to which these routes belong to the regions and are the responsibility of the regions. [[At this point, Minister Christos Spirtzis presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Nevertheless, because we are leaning on needs and we have close cooperation with the local authorities, our Ministry submitted at the end of March an application for the inclusion of the project: Construction - upgrading of road connection between the city of Lefkada and the road axis Aktiou - Western axis in the Business Program of Western Greece, the Region of Western Greece, in order to benefit from funding in the 2014-2020 programming period, a budget of EUR 55,000, including all sub-projects, i.e. expropriations - will not only make maintenance but also expropriations - archaeology, transport of networks. There is the maturity of projects, namely an approved register, approvals made by it, environmental conditions and tender documents, so that this work can be auctioned immediately, with the approval of the technical bulletin. He's not in our responsibilities, though. So don't tell us about criminal responsibilities and you and the previous ones. First, I also give you the technical bulletin to have it in your file and to give you the decision to approve the environmental conditions made on November 8, 2016. [[At this point, Minister Christos Spirtzis presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Now, the connection of Lefkada will take place in two parts. One is the section Vonica - Lefkada, about 16 km long, and the other with the area of the coast will be the section Aktio - Agios Nikolaos, 5 km long. I'll give you, if you want, a look at the map. In other words, the road at a point is branched, one goes to Vonica, through the area, and the other to Aktio. Includes the latitude of the locker to be 11 metres. It is included for the first part that I told you about the construction of five knots and the second part of two knots. Also, this is quite important on the basis of the study prepared for the water supply of the city of Lefkada, it is the construction of a new water supply pipeline that starts from the St.George and ends in Lefkada. In those parts which interact between the two projects - it is about seven and a half kilometres long this interaction - will also be auctioned and built in order to avoid future delays and reconstructions. This is what is not the responsibility of the Ministry. Let's go to the second question you asked about the Ambrose-Aktika road line.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u58	For the fourth section, for the fourth contractor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u59	All four, yeah. There we have found a situation, Mr President - since you are in the region, and you have also been interested in Mr Moraite - in fact dramatically. We had four works under way, big projects. We had problems and failures in the studies, problems in expropriations, archaeology, we had landslides in the area.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u60	They have so far cost 110 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u61	Now I'll tell you everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u62	If they don't complete, that's 110 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u63	We had landslides in the area. They weren't extraordinary landslide. No studies had been performed to predict. Of course, we had changes in standards, but we also had financial problems for contractors. This is really a work that can show the bad way the works were made. And because we are accused of partial tendering, I would like to say that the Patras Tower project is a typical case that the previous governments have made a partial tender and made four tenders. It is, in my opinion, a work of breath for the wider region. It will be completed by 2020, in accordance with the timetable we have set. In detail, I would like to tell you that on 16 March 2010 the construction of the forty-eight-km long project was commissioned. The road includes two lanes of traffic and LA. The construction is done in four, as I said before, contractors. The first section, which is “Actio-Drum, had a study budget of 142,800 euros. The project contractor is the ‘EAGGF SURVEILLANCE’. The second section, which is in the Dragon, is 39,270,000 euros. The project promoter is the ‘IONIOS’ and ‘TOM’ consortium. In the third section, i.e. Dros - Loutrakis, the budget is EUR 46,886,000 and is a joint venture of 'IONIOS' and 'NAKOR'. The fourth part of this road, which is the circumvention of Amphilogy - not the Ionian Road, so as not to confuse the world - the budget is EUR 62,237 000 and is a consortium of Italian companies. What we have done for these: we have tried to resolve all the chaotic situation that we have found, and we have planned two phases to complete the project, because it is no other way. The first phase is the development of the specific projects entrusted and the completion of separate operational sections, in accordance with the applicable contracts and with the established contractors, subject to approval by the competent bodies and by the Court of Auditors of the additional contracts required for them to take place.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u64	For the first time it has already been approved by the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u65	For the first time, I will now say it, Mr President. It was approved a few days ago. In the second phase is the integration of the remaining tasks resulting from all previous morbid phenomena into a new tender with a «pullout contract» to complete the whole project. The work that will go to the wrist project cannot be completed in the first phase, because we have a great deal of time to prepare studies, we have limited costs to manage, we have new prices and excesses due to changing the specifications and because they belong to parts that are not functional. Mr Moraitis, what you asked at the end, dear colleague, you know that better than I do, and from there it seems how sloppy and not in line with the needs of local societies the projects were designed. This project takes five hundred meters, perhaps less, to connect to the Ionian Road. And these five hundred meters were out of these four contractors and the concession of the Ionian Road. It's crazy. In other words, even the road was complete and the studies were correct and complete and the expropriations were made, they would have missed a piece of four hundred and five hundred meters to connect this highway to the Ionia Road. From there to understand - and I would therefore ask you not to put us in the same bag as the previous ones - the way in which the works were planned. I believe that the legislative interventions we made in August by the Public Procurement Act, but also what we will bring to us in order to plan the projects, deserves us all. I mean, to complement, that the Court of Auditors has already given its assent to...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u66	For the first contractor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u67	...the Actio-Drum. On 13 March, in other words about three weeks ago, the remaining and additional work will be included in the first and second phases, as I said before. The work necessary for the safety of the project and for the protection of the already built projects is still in second contraction, because in many parts of these works the work is advanced. That's what I went to see when I came to the area. In the third contractor it was considered that the solution offered for the Greek State is the closure of the so-called contractor at the stage that is currently in the first phase and the integration of the remaining work into the “gull” contractor. And in the fourth contractor, which is the part of the bypass on Amphilosia, it is the same as the third contractor. In other words, the closure of the current stage and the integration of the remaining operations into the new contract, the new broom competition, which will take place. The assessment - and this is a promise - is that we will try to complete the project in line with the timetable and, more quickly, so that people moving through this road, Lefkada, development and tourism capabilities, but also the region's productive activities can be served by this road. It's necessary. It's a serious project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-five students and students and two educational attendants from the 3rd High School of Ierapetra. Ierapetra has its honour today in Parliament. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Mauritius, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u69	Minister, I don't know how you understand populism. Is the tens dead and the hundred injured populism populated? What more did we say in our question? Now, in the fact that the question is not your Ministry, you know that the question was initially asked at the Ministry of Interior. We knew. But the Ministry of Interior...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u70	Mr. Moraite, he said about the region.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u71	Yes, the Ministry of Interior, Mr. President. The Ministry of Interior informed us that it was unauthorized and told us to do it at the Ministry of Infrastructure. He told us he'd send you some clues. Minister, you said about the Lefkada section, about the Lefkada connection. Of course, the responsibilities are enormous in that they were not included in the first tender. In other words, the road axis "Ambrasia-Aktio" was not united with Lefkada. Go outside Vonica and go to Aktio. Lefkada's right in there, but that's not our question. The question is another and you did not answer and now the problem is getting bigger. It is a uniform government, Minister, as is your anti-popular policy. Do not drop the ball on the Interior Minister. I said that in the first place, the question was asked there and he told us that the Ministry was unauthorized and that we asked you the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u72	He said to the region, Mr Moraite.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u73	And by extension to the Ministry of Interior.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u74	I'm telling you, because I've contacted the district chief.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u75	Listen, Minister: we in our question ask specific questions. We said that even if the road axis “Ampracia-Aktio” is still built, which you said will go with a time limit in 2020, this part of the existing network will remain in circulation and we will mourn every day dead. That is why we are talking about criminal responsibilities, both from the previous governments and from the current government. As to whether you have given gifts, Mr Minister, this is the amendment you have tabled. The proposed regulation provides for the possibility of covering from the social part of the Ministry of Infrastructure's Public Investment Programme, what is being done for tolls. You're not tolling, Minister? Do you know why we say that this road will remain in use and then? Because you, like the previous ones, are setting up tolls outside the houses outside the villages, and the people who move around will have tolls. You know very well that to go from Aktio to Athens and go back to Athens they will want 72 euros and will certainly choose not to enter some areas, even if there is access to these road networks. Minister, we asked something specific. What you said - so it is - is that they were not completed, apart from the region of Lefkada, and the four hundred meters from the lake of Ambros, from the Ionian road to Ambrosia. It is not the people who are responsible for this, Minister. The state keeps going. We specifically ask. This must be done, because by 2020 this road - a slaughterhouse will bring about a huge problem for driving drivers. And that's not all, Minister. It must be maintained, and that is why there is no commitment, neither from the point of view of the President. They told us that there was some credit to make some 'blocks', some 'blocks'. That's what they do literally. This road needs maintenance and repair in some parts from the outset and, in particular, in some dangerous areas, as has been pointed out by Trains. Like I told you, we had 32 dead. We were dead today, a new man, a truck driver who got away and fell down on the cliff. Therefore, the people's demand is both topical and vital. Minister, we have no illusions that you will be exercising such a policy, because if these roads were to serve the big-workers and the businessmen, you would have made them. Of course, we are clearly saying that, unfortunately, rather than a social right to transport and transport, it is an extremely expensive commodity. As I told you, the Aktio-Athens tolls will be 72 euros. People's families will not be able to walk.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u76	Good. I think we have had a constructive result.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u77	So the question remains and we ask you to answer. The government, Minister, is united. There are no boxes in the government. Unique is your anti-popular policy. You should answer that. It's residents' demand. Otherwise, we from the Step of the Parliament call on the region's people's movement to take the case in its hands, fight, protect its children's lives and lives.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u78	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleague, it's not the Ministry of the Interior. It's the district. The regions have one of their own planning, they have their own budget and they also have money, and many times there are regions that have more money than the ministries. What's gonna happen now? As you have seen in the technical bulletin, there are regions with which we are working together and doing joint actions and projects. Where we can give them money, we give them, where we have not "inherited" overbooking from New Democracy. But there is also an upturn, as in the region of Athens, in the region of western Macedonia, in many regions. There are also regions that have one of their own planning, but these are not the responsibility of either the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport or the Ministry of Interior. It's in the district. If you propose that the projects of the region receive the approval of the government and the ministries, it is another conversation. This is not the case today, it is not foreseen. Let's just sit down and talk about it. But first ask local government if it accepts this. Ask them! Because then we will say that we are robbing local government, we do not let it have its own programming, its own development plan and everything else. The second thing I would like to say, and I said in my first speech, is that we had a duty for the major infrastructure projects you said: to complete them in order not to impose the Greek people with EUR 8.5 billion. I don't know if you understand the number. As for tolls outside the houses and outside the villages, ask here the wing of the New Democracy and the PASOK which signed these contracts.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u80	They're the ones. We agree. Turn it off!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u81	Yeah, I told you. If we did not respect these forecasts, we would pay the EUR 8.5 billion. Unfortunately, we're not in the process of making the revolution. We'll be here in a while. But we do not stop here and I want to say that. We have been called within a year and a half to finish what other eleven and twelve years have not finished. This way of making concessions or making toll charges and prices is not the model of infrastructure projects that covers us. That is why in the operation of the motorways and not in the construction phase that is until summer, we are running and we have a specific plan on how to reduce tolls dramatically, in too many ways. You will see this at the beginning of 2018. The first way is to change the toll system, not to have this misery of 1821 with local and lateral toll stations. To go to an electronic analogue system of fairer charges. The issue is to reduce the charge price to the user. To say something that's very important. There can't be any tolls. Motorways must be operated and maintained. That's a cost. This cost, even if it were public motorways, and we did not have concessionaires, will be borne by the user of the motorway or will be borne by the state budget, namely the taxation of citizens. Anyway, the citizen's getting bored. Say we didn't have any individuals, say we didn't have any concessionaires.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u82	They don't pay traffic fees?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u83	The money for maintenance and operation? Where? We were gonna cut them into the mint machine? It can't be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u84	Should it be a cost per kilometre? Now I'm beyond my role.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u85	You said about an accident that happened today. To express our condolences. It is not possible for heavy vehicles to pass through settlements from villages. There's legislation. We've predicted her. We just need our drive to run, to stop this activity. I would like to say, Mr President, that the Great Week we will go all over Greece through new motorways. On Thursday we launch the tunnels of the Tempes of Platamon and the Malian Petal.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u86	Corinth - Father?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u87	The Great Wednesday. The Great Thursday is given a very large section, the remaining part, on the Ionian Road, next week on the E65 and before the Mayoe will also be given other parts of the Ionian Road, although many of these sections will be given according to programming, were for July and August to what we committed. Also - and it is not Mr Moraite, I say so that I am not mistaken - we are seeing a badly qualified portion of the opposition and the media. They say, "Will there be three sections in the "Krinth - Patras" that will not be ready?" And we're talking about a total of six, seven kilometers. The programming we have was for a lot more. In other words, here, there has been an over-indulgence from all the parties involved in completing the motorways and we also accept the criticism, because we have not just adhered to the timetable by the European Commission, but we are also ahead of time. Well, I mean, we don't stop trying for the highways. Let the works be completed. We do not stop trying because motorways must operate with those social indicators that allow citizens to be able to use them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u88	We are also grateful for the thoroughness of the debate. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we will resolve the meeting?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-03-S1-commons.u89	With the consent of the House at 19.41 the sitting on Thursday, April 6, 2017, at 9.30, on the subject of the House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
