ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to the Parliament's approval from 14-11-2017, the minutes of its meeting of Tuesday 14 November 2017, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: “Retirement arrangements under Law No.4387/2016, arrangements for the purchase of games, for “Greek Parnitha Casino S.” and other provisions.]] Ladies and gentlemen, while the three-day mourning that has been declared for the victims of the disaster - it is not only natural - which took place in West Attica, today we have the special session of the House on the November uprising. I would like to tell you that we will, of course, keep a minute's silence on the victims, on our sixteen fellow citizens. Unfortunately, there are also four missing persons who are victims of this disaster. It makes no sense at least to have a special debate. As far as the parties are concerned, there have already been some first touches in the committees from the point of view of the parties. The valuation will be done in a more correct and systematic way by both political forces and outside and within Parliament. However, because we are talking about numbers and we have said about the sixteen dead and the four missing, not forgetting another number, the eight hundred kilometres that, it seems, are the streams that have been put into our country over the last few decades. There are drawings and prints. That's why I said it doesn't make any sense to talk about naturality. It is not by God what is happening to us. I would very much ask that we keep a minute's silence on the victims. [[At this point, all Members of Parliament stand up for a minute's silence]] We are, of course, sympathetic to the relatives, but also to the affected in general in the region. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION Special session of the Parliamentary Assembly dedicated to the day of remembrance and honor for the revolt of the Polytechnic. Let me say two - three words on my behalf for a time, which the oldest of us have lived for, others more closely than others. It is very important for all generations to know - and they have known since then - that democracy in all its manifestations, both as political and as social democracy and as a Parliamentary Republic, which we are living in, is the result of racing, is the result of sacrifices, is to conquer at every moment both at political and social level. It's not a given thing. It's nothing unmovable. In this sense, it is important that this day has been set as the day of democracy with discussions in schools, in the next generations that have come, to know facts and, above all, to know experientially what 'free people' means. For the passion for freedom in the uprising of November, which was not only about the Polytechnic of Athens, but was also at the same time in Thessaloniki and Patras and where there were universities, met with the spirit and act of resistance, rebellion, deed, sacrifice for several and the risk of life of others. It was the culmination of the resistance struggle, but in which there were protagonists - I see Mr Panagoulis - organisations in front of me. Immediately after the dictatorship was declared, there were anti-digit organizations. There's been trials. Thousands of people were driven to disarm the resistance they would make to the drys. There was a dramatic seven years. There were also faces, anti-resistance factors, large personalities that sealed and inspired younger people at that time, to us students, in the process, i.e. from '72 onwards, to make the conquests of law and the appeals of the students' associations, which were a pretext for the massification of the student movement, and, of course, the existence of the provincial student clubs and other forms, which shaped a wide-ranging massage in anti-digit, neo-literatist resistance at that time. The Polytechnics School was a milestone, because it was precisely a point of reference for the palliative resistance. This is also known internationally. We all know very well - and this is what I am closing down - that it was not the insurrection of November that threw the junta. It took, unfortunately, - this "needed" has a lot of pain in it and pain and responsibilities - to be the tragedy of Cyprus months later and betrayal, so that under the burden of this betrayal the junta leave and the post-political period begins. However, I think that the parties' representatives and the Minister will be brought forward in a spirit appropriate to the democratic parties in Ethiopia. At today's sitting Members will be given the floor by Members who have been appointed by the Parliamentary Groups of the parties, in particular Mr Baltas from SYRIZA, Mr Fortsakis from the New Democracy, Mr Loverdos from the Democratic Asylum, Mr Karthanasopoulos from the KKE, Mr Papachristopoulos from the Independent Greeks, Mr Saridis from the Association of Centres, Mr Mavrotas from Potami and Mr George - Dimitrios Karras from the independent MPs. On behalf of the government, the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs Mr. Konstantinos Gavroglou will speak. I think we should start with the parties and then, Minister, you should summarise, in a way, and close the meeting. I would ask that speaking time be reduced to five minutes with the appropriate tolerance. Mr Balta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Let me begin by saying, from this step forward, that we are spending days of national mourning. The thought of all of us right now lies in the families of the victims, but also in the efforts of the rescuers to save enclaves and, at the same time, to restore a normal life in the affected areas. After saying this, I would also say that for these reasons, and more generally, I think that a speech of memory as today has to - I think, we will all agree - to avoid stereotypes, big words, to try to focus on the fact that our memory is honoured and, at the same time, to try as far as possible, because it is not always easy, to link this to things that concern us today. Time is short, five minutes. I'll try to keep him. So in five minutes I shall refer to five points. First point: 1 November as a day of memory we honor today, it has something paradoxical, because it imposed I will tell myself from below. Despite the problems that the process sometimes creates, despite the criticisms that have been made over all these years about whether it makes sense for this type of celebration to continue, despite the logical obstacles, despite the efforts of many parts of the exclusive characterization of their events and coloring them with alpha or beta color, the fact that this celebration has survived for for forty four years and continues to create interest, as the President has said, in new generations, to go to schools, teachers, people of all ages and all categories to honor the days of the University, means that something important has been done then and this important thing we are, in a way, being called to find today. Second point: Polytechnic was a top of something that we could call an authentic student movement. The critical word here is the original word and let me say that this is what we call the "Authentic student movement", because it was not organized from above, it was not the result of a political decision of a body, of a political force, but there was a movement, which organized and self-organized means that there were people together in spaces, a meeting of bodies, a participation in these processes, a co-determination of decisions and objectives, a composition of individual opinions and, ultimately, a co-responsibility for the results of these processes in conditions that are not easy, under conditions of dictatorship. This character of self-organization kept the student movement from the first day it was made until its peak at the Polytechnic. Third point, then: How did it start? It was started by something very humble, which at the time the wisest politicians or with experience political people would find strange. Some have said that the "democratic game" opens up with the Marquezine Government and that, therefore, elections will be created to the student associations on the ground. In order to create elections and escape the appointed councils of the dictatorship, signatures are needed. Signatures, however, means someone is exposed. So, in a sense, this move is dangerous. On the other hand, it seemed very minor and humble, in the problems facing the country at the time, to focus on the effort and the risk of elections in student clubs. However, some people took the initiative and with great surprise found that instead of the twenty signatures that typically needed for this job, they began to gather spontaneously - that is where the student movement began - hundreds of signatures on the territory where there was a university. This has created conditions of acquaintance, discussion, joint discussion, etc. New forms of student organization, such as local clubs, have been created and therefore one thing has been spread, which has covered the whole country. That's as far as the beginning is concerned. With regard to peaking, this has always been developed in various forms within the limits of 'legality' or without, then, the situation, fully open to all views and to all approaches, without a priori blockade, but with a simultaneous self-protection capacity of the framework which was shaped and, hence, the elimination of opinions which were then considered by all participants to be outside the democratic framework. Higher peak of the Polytechnic, of course, is more specific Friday night. There is a coordinating committee, elected by the assemblies within the Polytechnic. To their credit, the names of the people who participated in this coordinating committee have not been guaranteed in common consciousness. Another characteristic of this period is that few have tried to redeem their participation in it in political positions of alpha or beta. Even for those who followed a political career, you will not see in their curriculum'member of the polytechnic coordination'. So coordination is sometime on Friday night to make a big decision. There is an ultimatum: "Or go out "peace" - peaceful in introductorys, because there are dead, there are police around - there is the army, there are snipers - or we enter in with unknown consequences for the media." The coordination children, in their honor, make a big decision: “We do not go out. We say no" and they at that time place at the Polytechnic station to play the National Anthem at the time the tank enters the Polytechnic. This point confused, I think, what a student movement has meant for the last few years and gave that feeling to the entire Greek people since then that something important is happening. Fifth and final point: Without the support of the Greek people all the days of the occupation, and immediately thereafter, without the fact that the entire Greek people embraced this movement and supported it, probably thinking that "our children have shown us the way, we have indirectly made our self-criticism, because we ourselves have not massively raised our stature during the dictatorship", they supported them in every way they could at the time and throughout the occupation, again without any ideological or political differences or discrimination in one direction or another. That was enough of the undisturbed democratic mind. And it is this support for the entire Greek people, which I think makes such things so that forty-four years later it becomes what is done every year at the Polytechnic. I'm finishing the lesson. The lesson is obvious, and the President said it: real democracy. We live in democracy and not in dictatorship, our task is to continuously deepen democracy, recognising the opposite view, incorporating the opposite view as far as possible, compiling opinions and thus ending up with what we could call a 'democratic surplus'. Because the composition of opinions, when made in a democratic context, makes a final decision, which is much more important and better than any individual view, when this debate began. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr Balta. I would like to tell you that, as last year, Mrs Harris - Maria Theocharopoulos, the sister of Diomedes Konninos, who was one of the very young children - we were older and perhaps more protected in the gallery - who killed it outside the polytechnics. [[Applause]] Mr Fortsakis, on behalf of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. Today, within the heavy shadow of the loss of so many fellow citizens, we are being called to remember the Polytechnic School and are meeting today in the House of Parliament forty-four years later, in order to honour those events of 17 November 1973, the peaking of the great student uprising, which then received characteristics of popular uprising and shocked Greek society and laid the basis for the subsequent fall of the colonists, even though this was the first cause. At that time of violence and terrorism, in an environment of complete violation of individual freedoms, under the constant threat of arbitrary arrests, beatings and torture, our students dared to stand up. Then they questioned the authoritarian regime, which plunged the country into a deep darkness. Already in February 1973, the major mobilizations at the Polytechnics Institute for Freedom and Democracy had begun, followed by the events at the Legal School, where thousands of students joined together, determined to fight for a free university and a democratic society. I remember these events from a student and I still carry that memory in me. We arrive at the events of November at the Polytechnic University, which peaked on 17 November with the intervention of tanks. The uprising, as we all know, has been drowned in the most brutal way. A series of chain developments followed, leading eight months after the collapse of the dictatorship, after seven witness years. Today we can say that 17 November was the burning fuse, which led to a strong explosion, blowing up the dictatorial regime. The democracy we enjoy today is largely the fruit of that flagship struggle. I would like to remind you that what happened at the time was not isolated from the international order. They were part of a more general response climate that was manifested by generations of students around the world. I would remind you, first of all, of the great student movement in the United States, which had started since 1965 on the occasion of the Vietnam war and had evolved into a question for American society. I remind you of the events of May 1968 in France for more freedom and democracy, for more social justice, for better working conditions, for the mobilisation of students and students, for the closure of universities, for the occupations, for the demonstrations, for arrests and for the injured. All this was, as we all know, the beginning of the end of the very great De Gaulle. I would remind you that an emblematic figure of these events, Kon-Bedit, was the honorary doctor of the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens to support it repeatedly in our country during the crisis. Amongst these other important events of the time when students first headed, 17 November 1973 has a place of interest, perhaps the most important, in the sense that our students had then taken over the burden of this uprising and were ready to suffer as they did not act in conditions of democracy. They established an ruthless dictatorial regime toward them. They acted in full consciousness of the enormous dangers they were running. We can say they were really brave. So what does the Polytechnic today mean to us, at a time when democracy is firmly founded and does not seem to be in danger anymore? To answer that question, let us see what the Polytechnic does not mean before. Firstly, the Polytechnics does not mean that we accept the populism and the communism expressed by some, invoking the events of the Polytechnics, and that populism and partitioning allowed some to act for many years at the expense of society as a whole. The University created a new situation, political and social, which we can say started with the fall of the dictatorship and ended with the start of the economic crisis around 2009-2010. The current state of the country is also largely due to this populism and to this partisanism, a pretext for ideology, which had been able to develop in the context of the Polytechnics and which, in fact, had nothing to do with the Polytechnics. Secondly, the University of Polytechnic cannot match blind violence. I remind you that in the last few days we have experienced a new, worse experience than the other years, than we had known around the Polytechnic. We've seen what's happened in the last few days. We have seen who took the place arbitrarily and undemocraticly. We saw how celebrating was annulled by groups that in fact have no relationship with each other - I mean spiritual and political affinity - with those who had fought at the Polytechnics. Here I would like to remind you that the Metsovian Polytechnic, this flagship top institution in our country, has been a long time ago a place of lawlessness and crime and a place where we have a constant violation of legality and criminal activity from evidence which is not a university. I would like to remind you at this point that unfortunately there are large areas of the university, too many parts of the university, all of the universities that hold them, which have no or no link with the Polytechnic. These groups are constantly spaces which give consideration to actions that no relationship should have with our university. It is time to react to this situation. It is time to take measures that will prevent this situation from perpetuating, because the more it perpetuates, the more it collapses what the Polytechnic has left us as a tradition. So the violence that some people are taking on today in and out of universities to enforce their anti-democratic 'will' is something that has nothing to do with the Polytechnics. Thirdly, of course, the Polytechnics Institute is not the same and cannot be matched with terrorism. The terrorist organisations, which attempt to use it as a symbol, offend what happened in those days: the fight for freedom, not for slavery in terror, the fight for life, not for death. The children then fought against violence. They were fighting for individual rights. They were not fighting to fear citizens being released to universities or regions of the capital. What does Polytechnic mean? I shall also mention three points here. The Polytechnics School first - first of all - is an unscrupulous symbol of the limey thirst of the citizen for freedom and democracy. It is the greatest proof of what one can achieve with the power of one’s soul when putting his soul in the service of the most noble purposes. It is a constant reminder to us that democratic institutions are not self-evident. They are institutions we win with. To be more specific, I would like in a minute to remind you that many of the conquests following the fall of the dictatorship are essentially due to the struggle those children had done, because they had opened up the ideological and political basis of acceptance of the major changes that followed: the reorganisation of universities in the Edgar Fore model, the municipal language, the brand new education programs of that time, the reconstruction of family law, the slogan of 'Smom, Children, Freedom', which opened the way for greater pay and participation of the sick in the gains of society, the decentralisation and decentralisation of the old central state, the hierarchical relations in the public sector, which have been relaxed to meet the data and requirements of the era, and, finally, the imprinting of our society from a rural, medium-sized and medium-sized society. Today the country is in decline of social, economic, political, moral, intellectual, which does not respond to the vision expressed by the Polytechnic uprising. Because there has been a lot of talk of real democracy and, of course, no one can disagree with this - Mr Baltas said so, and the President of this House quite rightly - to remember that this essential democracy requires what children have done at the time, struggle and sacrifice, sacrifice and individual and collective. That's why it's worth remembering them and honoring them at all times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr. Fortsakis. Mr Andreas Loverdos has the floor from the PASOK - DIMAR.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, 50 years ago this Chamber was silenced for seven years. Freedoms and rights have been abolished by a moment of dictatorship. They took their place in prisons, tortures for ideas and acts of self-evident nature today, such as freedom of expression, the right to vote and to stand as a candidate, equality towards the law. Everyone knew the superpower that supported this diversion. Everyone knew the backs of the regime and it had to be twenty-five years, so that President Clinton would apologize here in Athens. But then the student, mainly, youth and towards the end of the regime - that is the truth - the people fought against the dictatorship. A peak of this race was the occupation of the Polytechnic and what was played after it. I would like you to excuse me for a special report on the occupation of the Polytechnic of Thessaloniki. Remember the racing and livelihood two and a half to three thousand students, who filled the field early at the University of Thessaloniki, the enthusiasm when we elected our representatives freely in the Coordinating Committee, the decision of the General Assembly in the morning to connect the occupation to the city and the citizens, since the building was isolated from the rest of the city, agony and fear, when in the morning hours we saw the tanks that saved the back exit of the Polytechnic, the James, the Police, the Great Security. The tanks were already in Athens, but most of us didn't know about it. Coordinating members who knew what had happened in Athens kept it hidden in order not to create panic. Thanks to their temper, we went out without surgery, but despite the assurance of the officers that there would be no arrests, dozens of our rivals were taken to security. I want to remember all these for ever, as I want to remember all these, Thomas Vassilis, Lakis Progides, the editor of the Kleopatra Papageorgiou station, Kostas Anagnostopoulos, Manolis Kalogeropoulos, Christos Angelopoulos, Petros Economou, Dimitris Pararaki, Clergy Tsaustidis, Kostas Kourkoulos, Chrysophe Jordanoglou, Thanasis Akritopoulos, Christos Karaggios, Christos Kontogiorgios, Giannis Christopoulos, Vangelis Kargoudis, Manolis Lathiotakis, Kostas Papaphilipou, Giannis Vassilidis Kalakakis. Thanasis Pafili did not mention him, because along with George Iliopoulou and other companions had descended as a delegation of our local associations in Athens, in the occupation of the Polytechnic of Athens. All the fighters, all the struggles that day I want to remember them, those I knew and those I didn't know, who we all felt like one toward the junta. I remember today as many as I remembered, gathering my thoughts to write the speech I am making. Ladies and gentlemen, today is a day of memory. Let us remember and talk about our memories. It is preferable to try to connect yesterday to today's matchings that make the anniversaries lose their meaning and turn words and meanings into hollow words. Above all, let us honour today the anonymous patriots who stood there quietly next to the uprising young people, most of them of course at the Polytechnic of Athens. So let us honor mothers, fathers, brothers, sisters, loved ones and loved ones who ran that evening at the Polytechnic, keeping in their hands food for children and everything else they thought useful, defying the dangers. This leading expression of popular unity against the junta, let us all hold it as a deposit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u7	Thank you very much, Mr Loverdo. Mr Karathanasopoulos, representative of the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President. Of course, today's moments are difficult because there are the popular strata of the Western Attica that measure their wounds. There are the families of the victims of these disasters, which were not the result of the weather phenomena, but of a policy of time that served and served the needs and priorities of the great capital, at the expense of protecting human life, such as the necessary measures of counter-munition. Of course, today, we are honoring the uproar of the Polytechnic. Forty-four years after the polytechnic slogans of "Psalm, Education, Freedom", "Outside the United States and NATO" remain current, not only in time, but also alive. The fight against anti-grass policy that leads to wider strata in poverty, impoverishment or to suit some crumbs falling from the rich table, the fight against politics that further downgrades and trades education, the fight against our country's deepest involvement in the imperialist plans of the Americans in the region, the fight as a whole against capitalist barbarism keeps these slogans alive and timely. Of course, on April 21, '67, the government of the country passed into parts of the Army. The coup d'état, to remember, took place in the name of addressing the communist risk. Today, anti-communism is the precursor of anti-grassroots measures, anti-grassroots developments. Of course the coup d'état was overcoming the contradictions of the urban political system and supporting the American-American pursuits in the region. The junta proves the character of bourgeois power as the dictatorship of capital, which often takes different forms, depending on developments. The people entered the plaster, the communists and the fighters in torture, prisons and exiles. The policy of the junta has provoked provocative support for large capital, local and foreign capital, business groups. He served the interests of the bourgeoisie by fire and iron. It led to the Turkish invasion and the Cyprus tragedy. It was a corrupt regime in the service of domestic and foreign capital. The polytechnic uprising, of course, was not a lightning, nor was it an spontaneous event. Prior to and there were mobilisations of the students' youth, the mobilisation of workers, workers and farmers against the policy of the junta. The JRC's role in the uproar, in the racing mobilisations, throughout the previous period, but also in the following ones, was decisive. After the twelfth February of '68 the JRC proceeded to reorganise its lines, clarifying its lines by opportunists. He proceeded with the building of illegal organisations, the design of illegal and legal work and its design. He proceeded to the founding of the Communist Youth of Greece in September of '68. His action demonstrates the determination with which he has fought the junta and the various manoeuvres, but also the need for joint action by workers, young people and the people and, of course, we are proud of these actions. The unrest of the Polytechnics does not fit into the anti-population policy that is currently in place, does not fit into the illusions of fair development. The rise shows the need to isolation the modern praisers of the junta, the Nazis of the Golden Dawn and all those who spill the poison of racism, fascism and anti-communism. This year's celebration of the Polytechnic uprising and the march towards the US Embassy is becoming increasingly important because of the new commitments made by the US Government - ANEL in agreement with the US Government. Upgrading and extending the Souda base, the installation of new US bases in the region, such as Alexandroupolis, the transfer of special weapons to Araxos, the exorbitant equipment for NATO is an upgrade of our country's participation in US, NATO and European Union warships in the wider region, in the context of their competition with other forces to control the wealthy sources. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] This upgrade concerns only the profits of Greek capital and that is why it has the support of the other parties. It is an upgrade that poses enormous risks to the Greek people and other peoples in the region, which brings closer to the risk of war and new interference for border changes, for new waves of refugees. The government excites American imperialism, even reaching the point at the recent journey to speak of common values, thus insulting the historical memory, sacrifices and struggles. Of course, the transition from the military dictatorship to civil parliamentary democracy did not give a substantial and definitive solution to the people's problems. Any conquests were temporary and the system took them back. Crisis, unemployment, poverty, authoritarianism and wars will exist as long as power will be in the hands of capitalists, while Greece will be bound by the imperialist organizations. Today it is shown that the main for the labour and popular movement is the concentration of forces in the struggle against monopolies and imperialist associations, against capitalism, with the aim of labour power and socialism. Because this struggle can, on the one hand, repudiate anti-grassroots measures, extract conquests, defend democratic rights and freedoms, but, above all, pave the way for real change in a radical direction, so that all people's needs can be met today. We invite youth and the people to massive participation in the great course of the American Embassy in Athens as well as in events across the country. So we will honor the uprising and its modern message against anti-grass policy and the deeper involvement of our country, the imperialist designs. This is the best answer to those who have tried to prevent the racing celebration of the Polytechnic uprising but also to those who legalise them and actually want to transform celebration into caricature by a series of urban parties. The hoodmen may have left, those who appeared as "Politics Occupation", but who first served their goal, which was not to prevent the three-day celebration of the Polytechnic, locking the gates of the historical building of the foundation. These two days were enough to reveal that they were actually carrying out a plan of mechanisms, which were the only ones who were objectively serving the government, but also the US Embassy. The logic of exclusion of the events of political parties and peoples, the exclusion of student clubs, unions and students who visited the Polytechnic area in previous years and their anti-communism was what characterized the hoodier's effort. They will receive an answer with mass participation in mobilisation and along the way all these actions that objectively serve the permanent impossibility of the US Embassy and those who still share it, that is to say, to strip the Polytechnic from its anti-imperialist content and not to carry out any events at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u9	Thank you. I very much urge my colleague, Mr Papachristopoulos, on behalf of the Independent Greeks, to come to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. I have no hesitation to say that the JRC took the lead in the anti-trial struggle with too many victims and too many fighters. History is history. We didn't get to the polytechnic school by accident. I'll start a little differently. Nikiforos Mandilaras, who was drowned - and his death was attributed to an accident - was a great democracy fighter. Alekos Panagulis, who was sentenced to life, then gave a great message to everyone else. The trials succeeded each other. At the courthouse, Liapis, the famous prosecutor at the time, did a great job. On the other hand, in EBA - ESA, Theophilologicalankas, Hatzis, Kenich, the Sheriff did everything to drown all those who had another perception of the then dictatorship. We found out that Nikos Manios, our student, put bombs and was banished. I'm talking with names. Ioanna Karystiani was an emblematic person then, a modest fighter in law. Nadia Valivani in ASE, Mitsos Papachristos, Kostas Laliotis. And in the Dental, in the amphitheatre of physiology, it became a mess at that time. The late Papastauridis and Dragon are no longer there. Many don't know them as they don't know Dimitris Kotulas, Noda Katsouula and many others. I just want to remind you that those days, the days of the Polytechnics, were the result of a process that had a lot of pain and blood. On the roof of the law eight months earlier, the Mavrogen Dionysios of Physics - the good pharmacist and friend - was arrested and afflicted very much. Kenich and the Sheriff had done a great job under the direction of Hatzisi and Theophilologicalanaku. I say this because many people say: “What was the junta? It was nothing." Oh, no! Some are trying to degrade the role. Oh, no! Makis Balaourras, Andreas Nefeloudis, was the lead at that time and played krone - letters of their lives. I'm saying that because it's been a difficult time. Some today are playing. Let me tell you something, many of the polytechnic masters - not because they despised themselves, because for us the Polytechnic was a great historic moment that some tried to degrade - they did not participate in the celebrations. They were first in the race, played crowns - letters their heads and messages that had to pass by. Forgive me and a little indulgence. Many of us after the University of Polytechnic went to the army to escape the menin of Ioannides. We met in various parts of the country. I was in the Argentine Orchard at the Unwanted Order. It's one of the few times I cried on the first anniversary of the Polytechnic. I kept watch, I kissed peeed aprons to give me a license, I watched it on a black-and-white TV, in the Argos Orestry, and I never got it. I want to say a great "thank you" to George Sarantoglu who was the doctor of the unit. With a scam later, I managed to get out for at least a few days. Some are trying to degrade the Polytechnic even today. Oh, no. It was a great moment. Many of the people I said never accepted to cash that paper. They went to their jobs, they worked, they created, they did a lot, they didn't. I'm not judging them, I have respect. But I want to end by saying this. Yesterday and the day before yesterday, something happened and I can't overlook it. It seemed the country was unarmed. It's a reality. I am thinking of the words Russo wrote in the "Social Convention": "Natural avenges those who violate its rules". We once laughed at the tireless ‘WWF’ or ‘GREENPEACE’ or other activists, ecological organizations. As long as climate change never plays a decisive role. However, it is not a good argument at the moment, when sixteen people lost their lives and may raise that number. I hope it doesn't come up. With regard to the Polytechnic message, two things I will say, I do not like to say much, at least today. It is criminal at the moment to determine the fates of the planet, hunting profit. It is the biggest crime that has been committed to humanity and those who read the report by Credit Suisse, it is a crime of 1% of the world's population to have 50% of world wealth and whacks, the remaining 70%, to have 2.7%. Credit Suisse is not left. You know who Credit Suisse is. Some stubbornly insist on this message. It has to change. Many countries broke the austerity and choice made by some of the Shoebles and others. Some people are struggling from inside. Some others have chosen another way. I respect it, I'm not judging it. A second message: Let us not forget that if there is really something left of the Polytechnic, it is those messages that are going through and in this Chamber some people who have not entered this room to get rich. They're indifferent to profit. And it's a message that's for me as strong as it is. Nature is avenged - I say it about what happened the other day - those who ignore its rules. There should have been the flooding yesterday. I have the right to say that, of course, some who had office and have ruled the country for over fifty years to criticise safe but priority yesterday - and it is criticism of our own government - are the flooding projects. It's workers who work in Mandra, dirtshits, people running for a piece of money. The state did the wrong thing and they drowned. It's a terrible fact that I can't overlook. These messages from the Polytechnic School I want to highlight: firstly, that no, it is not the purpose profit, it cannot. Secondly, respect for nature's rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr Papachristopoulos. I would ask Mr Ioannis Saridis, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u12	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause]] The mediation flags represent the weight and mourning that we all feel about the unfair loss of our sixteen fellow humans. Words are unnecessary at such times. This is not the time to talk about responsibilities, which clearly exist, which we all know in this Chamber are there. Let the people responsible give them up and then judge whether they have been correctly or not. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that it is our duty to all of us, all of us who have the honour and responsibility to go up to this Step of plenary in such days as today, to try to render the true content and essence of the heroic acts which we collectively, consciously and proudly chosen as Greeks to keep alive in our historical memory. Ladies and gentlemen, they say the winners write the story. Indeed, I am not questioning it. And I would not dare to question this, but I also have the opinion - and I would like to convey it to this Chamber too - that the winners write the history of the books. Heroes are those who write history as it will stay alive forever, in the hearts and poems, in deep in the conscience and in the memory of the peoples whether the books agree with it or not. The polytechnic heroes wrote their own story and that story they wrote it on the street. And despite the fact that their story was written in blood, yet their story is not a story of violence. They did not go to the Polytechnic in order to practice violence, but they went with romance, they determinedly went to meet her, to destroy her, to abolish the violence, and in the end to defeat her. So this story cannot be forgotten. This story is not recorded. This story is not inconclusive. This story is the story of how we three hundred today can go up to this Step every day and speak openly and publicly about what is the good of this place. Ladies and gentlemen, before I come down from Stepma and with the sole aim of demonstrating the enormous course that we have taken as Greeks to get here today, no matter how difficult this is today, and of stressing the value that the universal rejection of violence has for our democracy, from wherever it comes, as our students have done with their decision and have come out to face tanks with flowers and songs, to protect democracy and to revolt against violence, I will read to you another decision that the Athenians have taken to protect democracy, a decision in which violence is abundant and on which the young Athenians have sworn back then. I read you from the resolution of the Municipality of Athens on the leading Republic of Cyprus in 410 BC. for the protection of democracy: "If anyone breaks down the Athenian Republic, be considered an enemy of the Athenians and be killed, without punishment for the man who killed him and his property being demolished. I will also conclude with words and works with both the vote and my own hand, if I can, in the killing of the one who will destroy democracy in Athens." For the above, all the Athenians had to give legal vow. We have gone a great deal since then, ladies and gentlemen. We have mourned many dead as a people, as a nation. They have played games, they have shed blood on our fellow Greek citizens for democracy. I can still hear and choose to listen every day, every moment their voices. I can still see and choose to see every day, every moment their faces. I can still yell and choose to shout every day, every moment of honor and glory to the dead of the Polytechnic! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u13	Thank you very much. Mr George Mavrotas, Member of the Commission. — (ES) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank Mr Matutes for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. This year's Polytechnic anniversary, forty-four years after November 1973, is typically retired this year. The then Metsovie seniors this year become sixty - seven years old. People are retired, but ideas are not retired, the flame is not retired. The size of a project often emerges from the risk that its protagonists take. One purpose is so important according to the price accompanying it. The games, the fights of every kind only when they have a price, otherwise they're not games, they're routine at all times and professional. If you are climbed up against the bars of the Polytechnic and you see across the tanks, knowing that in a few minutes you may be dead or if you are more lucky than you are simply injured and beaten in a dungeon or attacked in a landslide of Greece, the price you see it in the face and you decide to stay. On the other hand, if you throw molotovs and burn barrels and cars knowing they'll never catch you, or if they catch you, they'll leave you, you play in a cheek game. So let's not confuse the struggles and the fighters with the'surprises' rebels. At the '73 Polytechnic, heroes had not entered, children had entered every day when fate pushed them to become heroes of a time. When a society had codified, it was reconciled with looking at its work to keep out of trouble, some people decided to find their trouble by giving up their work, and those who write history, those who decide to go out when everyone says to look at their jobs, those who undone and undone consciences and situations. But when you see, like those kids, that they're making you restrictions on freedoms, that you have to give loyalty credentials to go ahead, or you don't have the sun fate, that chances are reserving by the regime's chosen ones, then you're rebellious and you're being tampered with in your own polytechnic. In 1984, when I entered the Polytechnic University, eleven years had passed since his bloody days. Every day in the complex of Stournari and Patisias still had the breeze of the myth. The amphitheaters, workshops, stairs, walls, courtyards were smiling secrets and stories from that time. Today, whenever I pass, my heart is tightened. A lot of mussels, blacks and hood. Where's that polytechnic who used to swing like a bee? Where is the colorful student money that flooded not only its premises, but the entire area up to Exarchia? Today only sparsely and where some students of Architecture, the only school left in the band, are raptured. Unfortunately, the Polytechnics Institute in recent years has been in danger of becoming, if it has not already been done, a hammer shop, drug dealers and smugglers. Taking advantage of the inertia stemming from the Asylum Act, they use it as their basic castle in the enclave they play with the police. There has been an area of "stop liberation" for every offender. How can that stop? Only if the University regained its life. How? By taking full advantage of it, either by courses, events or by converting it to a centre of culture. Dark always retreats in front of the light. So let's light it up, let's get it alive, and the hood's gone. Surrendering the polytechnic complex again into society, this historic building, this masterpiece linked to the country's development and the anti-fascist struggle, this must be our bet. This must be our polytechnic! By closing, every historical turning point, every revolution has its own motto. Many times this slogan is a tripartite. The French Revolution had "Freedom, Equality, Brotherhood" and changed the world. About two hundred years later, a few thousand young people in Athens shouted "Bread, Childhood, Freedom" and changed the country. It's been forty-four years since. Today we need a revolution to get out of national misery, a revolution with related motto, "production, education, creativity". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u15	Mr George-Dimitrios Karras has the floor on behalf of the Independent Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u16	Mr President, because today is a difficult day, let me turn my thoughts before all the victims of Mandra, to the victims of this tragedy, to condone their families and wish for the six missing persons who I have heard before, to be found alive and to return to their everyday lives. Today, of course, in the House, we have the day of memory for the Polytechnic uprising. The previous speakers have spoken very much and detailedly. You will allow me to make a wider regression to the events of the time and to start a little further behind the causes of dictatorship, from the causes that have created the conditions for the destruction of democracy. I must say that the beginning of the 1960s to the 1970s was a really interesting period for democracy in Greece. The competition between the conservative party and the rares had begun, the attempt to create the wider centre area with the Union centre. There was spiritual development, there was spiritual leadership that, unfortunately, I have to say there is a deficit. And why am I talking about this? There was the competition of ideas, the exchange between them, the current ideological. I just want to remind you of two. Let me remind you of the left side of the TECHNIAS TECHNIAS, which was the direction that gave us to the left-wing party. And I would remind you of the democratic "EVENTS" of Christos Lambrakis, who introduced the European democratic ideas in Greece, but which were overshadowed, were interrupted by the declaration of the dictatorship. It seems, then, that some people did not like the crown of democracy and became the coup. The dictatorship, in fact at the very first moment, had a series of serious odours and obvious resistance acts, with the top of the attempt Panagoulis, Alekos Panagoulis and many others, but on the way it never ceased as long as this regime was in existence, there were voices of resistance and voices that erupted the world or attempted. There was, then, - to remind you, you will allow me, even though it is historically known - Seferis was still alive. She was silent, but finally spoke and reacted. There was the spiritual world of writers. Let me remind you of the eighteen texts - some of you older remember them - which were a gathering and conservative writers and centre writers and writers of the Left, who were one of them. To awaken the common consciousness so as to continue the resistance and reaction. And from there on, of course, there was the youth, which had its top point of view, the Legislative Revolution in February 1973, the student's reaction to the efforts of the junta to impose appointed administrations in the FIFG, while the request was now a democracy vote, to become antiquities within the student clubs. Here you will allow me to stand still and refer to a personal experience, which is part of a wider context, in the Navy Movement, in the VELOS Pope Movement of 1973, which took the VELOS movement - is the well-known rebellion of the destroyer "VELOS" - and went and did the reaction against the junta. I have a view on this point. It was also a terrible catalyst that raised consciences. Why? Because a large majority of our conservative fellow citizens had been silenced, they had been reassured. With regard to the first brave reaction from the Armed Forces - not only was the Pope, there was political coverage, it is well known - I will tell you that there was also participation from the other Armed Forces, that is, from the Army and from the Air Force. If the Navy Movement were not betrayed, we don't know what developments would otherwise be. But what has it achieved - in my own view - ladies and gentlemen? He achieved the uprising, the reaction of the conservative side of the Greeks. Because they saw a military group, a unit, react - and I can say this - not to change the regime or to create a caste of soldiers, another caste of power, but to bring about the return of democracy and the collapse of the junta. So this resulted in the reaction of those citizens of conservative perceptions who did not react and understood that it is time for them to react too. Of course, after that, a wide-ranging dialogue has now begun, a wide-ranging consciousness in the world that the junta must end. So how would the junta end? With the protagonists, who are always the students, who, too, want to change the world. I was a student at the time, and that's why I said I'd talk a little bit personally. Of course, the result in itself always doesn't matter. It's important that you give the dimension of the reaction. And youth is giving it away. So youth gave it to the Polytechnics, the dimension of the reaction, with its well - known demands. Of course, in my image, as I remember it now, it wasn't just the students. They had come from other places. They had come to the Polytechnic Farmers' School, workers. There were too many people together. I remember attributes that they welcomed the workers from Lavrio or the farmers from the Megarras, who were very difficult to move those days so that they could reach, because the cord around was huge. So what the Polytechnic uprising sought did, even if we had changed dictator after. Then came the new "kill" of Ioannides and the tragedy of Cyprus. The Polytechnics, however, brought about a change in the people's faith that the dictatorship was not unshakable. It does not mean, however, that at the moment we should not remember those who created the conditions that have rekindled democratic ideas and then inject democracy after the fall of the junta, even though the fall was due to a tragedy. I would like to say this and end, Mr President. I referred to the beginning of my speech in the spiritual leadership of the time, which gave this movement. I fear that today, because of the crisis, we still have a spiritual leadership deficit. I really wish that there are ideas, because we have only remained in the debate on economics, economists and economists, but we will not only get the country out of the crisis with the economic data that we are studying and exchanged on a daily basis. So we should also raise our minds to new democratic ideas so that the country can ensure that it continues to exist and ensure that those who were in the Polytechnic, students, workers and all the resistance, that the country has the power to continue and create for the future as well. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u17	Thank you very much, Mr Carras. Before the meeting was closed, the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr. Gavroglou, has requested and has the floor for the President of the Democratic Association of PASOKs - DIMAR Mr. Fofi Gennimata. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u18	Thank you very much, Mr President. Before I begin, I too would like to express my grief for the loss of so many of our fellow people and my support for their families and also for those affected. The Polytechnic anniversary is certainly a national obligation to remember and honour the victims and the fighters of resistance to the dictatorship. This is an uprising that started as a student movement and evolved into a palliative revolution after all. This day is, at the same time, an opportunity to reflect on the conquests of our democracy, the protection of the individual and social freedoms of citizens. Most of all, however, it is a day of reflection on the progress of the country, on the quality of democracy, on the protection of the institutions. Of course, it is a day of awakening, because we must all respond to the challenges and the precursors of our time. The Polytechnic, both as a symbol and a historical event, condenses the meaning of the anti-dritorial struggle, the demand for freedom and democracy. It continues to hold a special place in the heart and soul of all Greeks and especially young people. It was not an instant heroic act, but an act of lasting endurance and endurance within time, an act on which Greek democracy was based. In the post-Culture that followed, we have the longest period of democratic normality for the land. Many of the democratic conquests of post-multipleism have as a core the demands of the Polytechnics and especially the ethical and worthy dimension of resistance to dictatorship. These conquests were not only about the student movement but about the whole of public policy and social claims. From this point of view, the University of Polytechnic lives through the very essence and quality of the democratic institutions we have today. They are institutions which, with all their shortcomings and flaws, remain stable state guarantees for the present and future of the country. The Polytechnic, therefore, is not a mere anniversary and is not just a myth. It is the active memory of democracy itself. It must certainly be enriched with the unfulfilled visions of that generation but also with the visions of today's generation, the generation of the crisis. This generation that we have affected has the right to a future democratic, European, hopeful, so that it can be linked to its history and create its own tomorrow. It also has this, perhaps more than other generations past, need from the active memory of democracy, to be able to resist desperation, isolation, the collapse of standards and values, the disastrous influence of extreme right-wing extremism. The old stereotype for the generation that was supposedly established, as well as the new stereotype for the "stick" Postpopulation, prevents and unfairs this continuity of democratic memory. Alas, if one generation were to turn to the other. Through democratic struggles, generations and political traditions are united by all those who insist that no conquest is given to the place, neither freedom nor democracy. The easy complaint, zero criticism and retrospective hypocrisy are eloquent signs of those who wanted over time to refuse to offer the sacrifice of polytechnic fighters. These fighters were honored by Andreas Papandreou coming every year to the field of the Polytechnic. Specifically, in 1990, when addressing the Greek people, he said "I give you the assurance that we will be standing these difficult hours for our country, with national dangers, with the destruction of the fabric of the economy, with the dangers of social and political". He said: "We will stay in the struggles, loyal to the ideals of polytechnic fighters and their message for Greece to be truly independent, safe, democratic and progressive." The struggle of those days for democracy and advancement shows the endless forces of Hellenism. Greece can nowadays with national consensus, with a national line, overcome the crisis, make a new start. That's what polytechnic shows us today. In the visions and struggles of the Polytechnic heroes there are no forms of violence today. Violence tarnishes the memory of the Polytechnic and is severely affecting democracy. Especially in times when the wave of extreme right and neo-naziism rocks the foundations of Europe, the democratic wall is a self-evident act of state and citizens' responsibility. The Polytechnic is a symbol whose messages resist the deterioration of time. We commit that by honoring the bloody flag of the Polytechnic, honoring the dead and all the protagonists, we are continuing this race today. The next day for Greece, ladies and gentlemen, will not have the signature of the crisis, but will be the signature of the new national self-confidence that comes from the struggles of the Polytechnic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Madam President. The Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs Mr. Konstantinos Gavroglou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. At a difficult, almost tragic juncture for what happened in the West Attica, we are called upon to regain the thread that began to unfold in November 1973. Forty-four years after the insurrection of the polytechnic students and the universal support of their struggle by the Greek people, we are today honoring the November 1973 fighters and turning our memory and gaze to those ideals that are still alive today. We honor youth resistance to the junta of the colonists, their victory over the seven-year tyranny, their thirst for "bread, education, freedom", for social rights, for dignity in life. We honor their morality and democratic processes that have tried to establish for the management of such complex everyday life at the Polytechnic of those days. We must not forget, we must not forget the places of exile, the Columbia of the EBA, torture and the dead. This day, however, reminds us of the unspeakable pain of those who were killed. Within three words, "bread", "childry", "freedom", the young people of the Polytechnic have managed to leave the most powerful fight for tomorrow's generations, for the peoples who claim a better and fairer future. "Psalm, Childhood, Freedom" was the motto that crushed the brutal oppression of the regime of colonists, breathed the desire of citizens for democracy, again marked virtue and daring as concepts of indignation of freedom. It's memory day, then. It is a day that belongs to the fighters in November, no matter how many tried to rob her, to be privatized, or to degrade her, to benefit politically and ideologically. It is a day of memory at a time when the negative ones of importance have had such events in the history of our country. That is why we are obliged to preserve the memories of those periods as an eye daughter. We bow with respect and awe to the inherited possession of this generation. It is a deposit under constant threat from the unscrupulous efforts of specific political structures and individuals to degrade it. The Polytechnics was and is our collective memory and the always timely slogan, "Yes to democracy, not fascism", expresses the vast majority of our people, regardless of ideological and political choices. Because "Yes to democracy, not fascism" was the framework in which post-population Greece was built with many problems but also many promotional elements, with unshakable commitment to democracy, its depth and its complexity but, ultimately, its positive impact on the reconstruction of the institutions. "Yes to democracy, not fascism" mobilizes democratic political forces against neonazi structures, dreaming of a society of exclusion, discrimination, racism and xenophobia. The 1973 generation proposed - not by accident - education in its historical slogan, because education is the cornerstone of democracy. Education is not meant to be a good without a quality, public and free education for all, from infants to adolescents, from young to older citizens of the country, who are trying to enrich their supplies through life, to gain knowledge and to improve their conditions of life. It is a principle that governs our own political and ideological basis. With this unnegotiable principle, against neoliberal screams, dogmas and other pursuits, we unfold a three-year reform plan for school, university, vocational education. Without fear of academic freedom, a request then of the polytechnic generation. Without fearing the participation of the student and student community, the teachers of each grade in the formation of multiple aspects of education. Without fear of colluding with pathogens of decades, which have turned much into education, pathogens that need to be rooted out. Without fearing categorically condemning those who undermine democracy. It is easy and convenient to stay only in the determination of today's problems, the particularly serious problems. We have said so and let us say it again on the occasion of today: there is a problem of infringing certain universities. But for what reasons? Let us make an effort to understand the deeper reasons and not to stay in superficial findings, the reasons for youth marginalisation, the serious issues that the labour and student movement has to deal with self-criticism. Let us consider the new realities of our society and through a democratic dialogue, let us create the conditions for overcoming the deadlocks. That is why it is extremely important today that there should be a massive process and we call on all of our people to take part in this democratic process this afternoon. We therefore have a duty, based on our ideas, to continuously improve education in our country as a good non-negotiable item, which does not consume in sterile competitions and strugglings in perpetual leaderships and trophys. Improving the essence of knowledge and learning, beautiful, healthy and fair talk. To broaden equal opportunities for everyone in education open to society, trustworthy and democratic. Recognizing this need lies at the core of our own cells, the left-wing people, who have historical deposits and experiences indelibly from the years of the seven-year period, through democratic and resistance struggles, through their sacrifice for a better future. This is for us the essence of the slogan "Psalm, Childhood, Freedom", a motto of hope for the tomorrow of our people and youth. Ladies and gentlemen, it is our duty to protect our values within the world's changing world, to stand up to the principles condensed in the historical now slogan 'Bread, Childhood, Freedom', to compare to totalitarian ideologies, fundamentalism, to the global inequality that has deteriorated over the years. Greece of today is no longer Greece of the Polytechnic era, and for this change many different political parties, social bodies, scientific associations, chambers, trade unions, intellectuals and many anonymous citizens have contributed. But democracy is not a given thing. Democracy is not granted, but is conquered. The culture of democracy is shaped by complex and often contradictory processes and this culture of democracy is also called upon to win today. But let's not rest assured. Always remember that democracy is a timeless demand, but the same democracy and its institutions are always very fragile. It is therefore up to all of us to protect it in our daily relationships, at home, at work, at school, at university, to protect it from the danger of bureaucraticisation. That day, November 1973, belongs to the young, the visionaries, the pure fighters. It belongs, of course, to democracy, to the right to education and work, to justice and freedom. Above all, the polytechnic day should belong to the new generation. It belongs, however, - and this must be stressed - to the state itself, which must each day be measured, how true it is to the deposit of those days and what exactly it is to implement this deposit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, in the memory of the victims of the uprising of 17 November 1973, but also of all the victims of the anti-Digital struggle of the Greek people, workers and youth, I would ask you very much to keep a minute of silence. [[In this respect, I should like to draw your attention to the fact that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks ……]] Immortals! [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the special sitting of the House on the day of remembrance and honour for the revolt of the Polytechnic was completed here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the supplementary SPECIFIC PROVISIONS Parliament decisions, financial management: a. Only discussion and approval of Parliament's Expenditure Report, financial year 2016. b. Only debate and vote of Parliament's Budget Expenditure Plan, financial year 2018. Parliament's decisions were voted on in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy by a majority of its members. Therefore, pursuant to Rule 108(1) and (6), they may be voted on by the House without a debate. Nevertheless, I propose that, if the rapporteurs and the special speaker so wish, speak for five minutes each, the Parliamentary representatives also for five minutes and those of the Members of Parliament who are also on the list of speakers for five minutes. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u23	So the House unanimously agreed. Before we begin, I will make a statement to this House. The State Budget and General Balance sheet Committee and the State Budgetary Control of the State Budget shall submit its report to the draft laws of the Ministry of Finance: (a) ‘Following the Report of the State of Economic Year 2015’ (b) ‘Repeal of the Balance Sheet of the State of the financial year 2015’ We'll start with SYRIZA's rapporteur, Mr. Mikopoulou, for five minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, because you may have been prepared for more time, there will be a relative tolerance for all colleagues. Here, Mr. Meikopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u24	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. There was an extensive reference to the Committee on Wednesday, with regard to the codes and expenditure included in the budget for the financial year 2018, so we are given the opportunity today in plenary to be a little more codified and more substantial in terms of the most important items included in the 2018 budget. Evidently, once again, the budget is drawn up on the basis of both ensuring Parliament's more efficient operation and improving its services to Members and citizens, as well as saving and reducing its expenditure. The most important objective for us in drawing up the Parliament's budget for 2018 remains the uninterrupted functioning and overall upgrading of the Parliament, obviously taking into account society itself, the modern problems and the wider needs of society as a whole as they change in the environment of our country's crisis. In 2017, the budget provided for expenditure of a total value of EUR 132.985 000. The new budget for 2018 provides for expenditure of EUR 133.985 000, noting - for the first time since 2009 - a 0.75% increase, i.e. an increase of EUR 1 000 000 in relation to the 2017 budget, while the objective of the Medium-term Financial Strategy is fully covered. More generally in the mid-term between 2009 and the year of the crisis - up to last year in 2017, expenditure cuts accounted for a percentage reduction of 40.13%, which for 2018 stood at 39.68%. This time-consuming change in Parliament's budget at reduction rates clearly reflects the constant effort paid to adapt to the unfavourable economic circumstances of recent years, while maintaining the quality of Parliament's services at the same time. However, the smallest percentage change observed this year for 2018 is directly related to the first recovery steps taken in 2017 by our economy, with sound forecasts for sustainable growth in the coming years. On this point we can see or observe - if you like - three points which are quite important to me. The first point is the innovation that takes place this year by integrating major technical projects into the European and Other Appropriations Office to make use of Parliament's assets with a long-term objective of creating capital value infrastructures, which will also bring about a gradual reduction in its operating costs. The second point is the reduction of the costs achieved by the operation of the Electronic Document Movement System. That means reducing bureaucracy. As far as the operation of the House is concerned, there is also provision for the rental of suitable specialized equipment, instead of the purchase of new equipment, to cover Parliament's increased publishing work. The third point is the transition to autonomous financial management of the special committee, which obviously also reduces the costs for the remuneration of natural persons. Four are the categories of appropriations, namely expenditure. We have payments for services, supplies of capital equipment, transfers and expenditure not included in other categories. In the first code category 'K.A.0000' we have total expenditure amounting to 128,149,000 euros for 2018. Indeed, there is an increase of around EUR 2.105000 compared to 2017, the estimated expenditure was EUR 126,044,000. Please note at this point that the increase in this category of expenditure for 2018 is observed due to the wage costs charged by the application of Law 4488/2017 for the employer contribution for the EPPO and the doubling of the employer contribution for the year 2018 (n.4387/2017). At this point I would like to note that with regard to parliamentary compensation, it remains stable at the same level as 2016 and 2017. In the case of expenditure on other services, it is necessary to clarify in two respects. The increase that we see by 100,000 euros for building rentals (K.A.0813) has nothing to do with the rental costs of the buildings. That remains stable. The small change observed relates to the additional cost reduction last year due to the more rational execution of the contractual lease terms. At the same time, the EUR 100,000 increase for leasing costs - code number 0816- is due to the planned leasing of printers and printing units to meet Parliament's needs. Finally, with regard to the remuneration for maintenance, repair of buildings and other fixed installations - code 0851 - a reduction of EUR 149,000 is envisaged in relation to 2017. Here we should highlight the great effort that has been made since 2016 to rationalise the Parliament's building stock. As a result of this great effort to make use of the assets of this House in 2017, the EUR 585 000 reduction in the cost of renting buildings which, as I said before, remains stable. For the second category, the total expenditure is budgeted at EUR 2,736,000 for 2018 and is reduced by EUR 434,000 compared to 2017. For category III, the total expenditure amounts to EUR 3,000,000. Regarding category IV, the Parliament's reserve, i.e. to deal with unforeseen expenditure, is EUR 100,000 for 2018. It remains, precisely, at the same level as 2017. With regard to Parliament's statement of expenditure for the financial year 2016, I would like to point out that for this financial year as a whole, expenditure has not exceeded the budgeted amounts. In conclusion and in summary, let us say that this year's budget has also been moved within the framework of which the state budget is generally moving in line with the country's general economic situation and on the basis of the principles of sound financial management, openness and transparency. We are entirely equivalent to the common sense, without, of course, horrificly reducing the quality of the services provided in this House. We must also thank the political staff of the House for their important work and also for their valuable support and contribution to the work of everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, after discussing the budget of the Greek Parliament for the financial year 2018, I invite you all to vote for it together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr. Micopulus. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Konstantinos Koukodimos, has the floor. I would like to remind those colleagues who want to register that they have to do so by the end of Mr Kokodimos's suggestion. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to express my warmest condolences to the families of the victims of the murderous flood that struck Attica and all of Greece, causing chaos and despair to thousands of Western Attica. Warm condolences. I believe I am expressing all my colleagues. Let me just say that Pieria's been hurt. There's been a lot of damage in my county. Let us hope that there are no more victims. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are today discussing the Parliament's statement on Parliament's expenditure for the financial year 2016, as well as the draft budget for Parliament for the year 2018. With regard to accounting records, a reduction in the Parliament's budget of EUR 86,900, part of which EUR 33,600, has been returned to the General Accounting Office of the State. With regard to all the appropriations, the EUR 135 895 500, which, according to the report, were allocated for expenditure relating to payments for services, the remuneration of staff of Parliament, parliamentary allowances, special categories of temporary staff, other services and other expenses. A very low balance of EUR 3,758 was recorded at the end of the period. That is why we do not have any particular comments on the balance sheet. As far as the 2018 budget is concerned, we have two observations. We all think that Parliament's budget should be distinguished from two elements. Firstly, the need to retain Parliament's expenditure, thus contributing to the national effort to reduce national expenditure and, secondly, to improving the functioning and infrastructure of Parliament and the Member of Parliament, which must act as representative of the Greek people. In recent years we have all known that the Greek Parliament has contributed to the effort to cut expenditure and has suffered cuts. That was right and society, however, must know. Because you are all aware that, at times, we have been faced with very severe criticism from the media, of course, who see their own income falling, their own obligations to increase and believe that Parliament and the workers in it enjoy special privileges. All Parliament's budgets - and you will allow me to present it, as I am a Member from 2007 to today - are falling. I am referring to the period since 2009 and after the crisis broke out. It's worth remembering some numbers. The 2015 budget showed a percentage change compared to 2009, i.e. six years, of 37%, from 222,140,000 euros in 2009 to 139,922,000 euros in 2015. I would also mention that the 2014 budget was already reduced by about EUR 7 million, which is a 4.6% reduction compared to 2013. In this context and in this direction is the Parliament's expenditure budget for 2018. It comes in the same spirit as expenditure, and we have to say on the basis that from 2009 until now, this percentage change has reached 39.68% of expenditure, since this year, for the first time, a very small increase of 0.75% has been recorded compared with 2017. There may be some people who believe that the House and the Members of Parliament can work with even less. Let us discuss this if anyone wants it, and let us pursue it if necessary. I must conclude by expressing our warm thanks to the staff of the Greek Parliament for the high level of services they provide and offer under the conditions described. Thank you very much. With this in mind, Mr President, and on the basis of the figures presented by the services of Parliament, we are voting in favour of both the 2016 budget and the 2018 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr Kukodimos, and for the briefness of your time. Mr Ioannis Koutsoukos has the floor for five minutes for his own recommendation. The records have been closed. No speaker has been registered.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, in the morning sitting we honoured, as a Parliament of the Greeks, the Polytechnics and the struggles of our people against the dictatorship of the colonists. Apart from the fact that Parliament has an obligation to honour the fighters of democracy, speakers of all Parliament's wings were given the opportunity to make reference to the period of post-population and to the achievements of democracy, in the longest peaceful and creative period that this country has lived through. I believe that they have been raised in a fair manner, each on his side and, if you like, also by making their own contribution. For our part, our Parliamentary representative Mr Loverdos and the President of the PASOK and the Democratic Alliance, Mr Gennimatas, gave our mark. Mrs Gennimata, has mentioned in particular the fact that under these conditions created by the crisis of the general institutions and democracy, we must actively keep the memory of democracy, honour the fighters of the Polytechnic and try to overcome the artificial confrontation between the generations of that period and the present period through the struggles for democracy and struggles - I would add - to overcome the crisis. Because any new division within society does not serve neither democracy nor the prospect and hope that we must create at the place and especially among young people. Why am I saying this, ladies and gentlemen? I say these introductory words, because every time the debate on the budget of the Parliament is offered for general political comments and doubts that are cultivated by many aspects, especially during the period of crisis, but also under generalised lies and populism and extreme right-wing and fascist perceptions, the theory of the cost of democracy has been developed, which has often reached maximum limits. Because this Step is public and is addressed to Greek citizens, we who serve representative democratic institutions must have the courage to defend them on the one hand and to speak in terms of truth, because during this crisis the relationship of truth with democracy has been tested. Our democracy, ladies and gentlemen, has the lowest cost. Last year I presented data from the Court of Auditors on the basis of which the cost of democracy in relation to total expenditure was 0.60 mm in total state expenditure. If you want to make this reduction with all the revenues, that is, what the state receives and what democracy costs as a whole, it is 0.25 million. That is, for every thousand euros a tax paid by the Greek citizen - HISPIA, income tax, VAT - pays about 2,5 euros for democracy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You'll give me a minute, Mr. President. We must consider this comparison between the one I said in committee, a country in Central Africa and a country in Northern Europe, which has the same wealthy resources in mineral wealth, which one is starving and the other is making progress, so that we can see where the difference is due. The difference is due to democratic institutions, to the participation of citizens, to transparency. These are, therefore, the issues that we must discuss, if we want to see the real problems of democracy, broaden it and make major institutional changes, so that we do not allow people of all kinds to speak here with sloppy thoughts, mocking people's ears. Shall we reduce the number of MPs? We'll reduce them as much as you want! Are we going to see the issue of representativeness? How are we going to overthrow the logic of the intervention of the Midiarchates and the economic actors in the political system? These are the changes we need to discuss. Are we going to let ideas, ladies and gentlemen, of funding, of political parties and of political persons, as is happening, for example, in the United States of America, or are we going to approach very seriously the way democracies of more developed countries than we in Western Europe operate in Western Europe, where citizens take up this minimum cost of democracy, as I told you earlier? The other view is well known. We abolish democracy and accumulate enormous costs, both human and economic, to the citizens. The examples are many, and I do not want to talk about them. With these considerations, we, ladies and gentlemen, shall vote for Parliament's budget, a budget of double management, a budget which has proved, based on the information provided by the services, to be faithful to its implementation. A budget which is very low compared to 2009 and a large part is due to our own initiatives as an exception, which the current Bureau of Parliament has continued, to have led to a 40% reduction in the costs of the operation of Parliament and, respectively, the cost of each Member, by reducing his or her earnings and, in general, his or her benefits. I shall end with this: I think that the debate on further reductions does not have much more room for manoeuvre. I believe that the limits are finite and we should look for other, more effective ways of strengthening the Members' institutional role and its ability to be in his constituency, to communicate with the citizens in more practical and immediate ways, without further burdening Parliament's operating costs. With these thoughts, I say to you that we are voting both on the 2016 budget and on the 2018 budget. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr. Koutsuko. The reason is the special speaker from the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ioannis Sahinides for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. We also express our warmest condolences to the families of the wronged and hope that the four missing will find themselves safe and sound. There have been extensive damages due to bad weather, not only in the Attica basin, but also in the Istanbul and in many regions around Greece. Too many municipalities have declared their districts in emergency. We have heard the previous rapporteurs, but we have not heard a proposal from anyone about the payment of state financial assistance for 2017, the fifth instalment, EUR 1.57,000 given to the parties. No one was found to declare to be awarded to the wounded. Not one was found to declare that the social dividend should be granted to people who have real needs, which, unfortunately, emerged from the analgesia and today's governance and from the governments of the previous years. In fact, the Attica District Administrator had the courage to file a complaint against everyone in charge. So, what did he do? Sue herself! We are now moving on to Parliament's expenditure budget for the financial year 2018 and to the statement of expenditure for the financial year 2016. Once again in a festive climate, the President of the Parliament submits to the House the budget for the financial year 2018 and the financial year for the financial year 2016. However, these celebrations do not naturally share with the Greek citizens, who for the eighth consecutive year suffer the consequences of the harsh and unjust policy of the memoranda that have crushed the Greek economy and society. For us, the People's League, any budget dictated by international loan sharks cannot be accepted. We only note that, from 2009 until now, the Parliament's budget has been reduced by almost 40%. This fact alone proves the party that was set up by the parties of the constitutional arch until our country enters the memoranda and in many cases, unfortunately, still exists for the party elites. It also seemed to me that this year in relation to last year there is an increase of 0.75% compared to the expenditure budget for 2018. The rationalisation of expenditure in all areas of state activity and the fight against corruption of policies are prerequisites in a favoured state, which respects the people. However, it is noteworthy that the 2018 budget shows, before, an increase of EUR 1 million compared to that of 2017, mainly because, as noted, the increase in employers' insurance contributions to the EUA from 3,33% to 6,66%, an increase of 100%, highlighting the scale of the fraud of the so-called reform of the insurance sector, with which the damages of the funds are paid, i.e. PSI. The budget expenditure for the year 2018 shall be broken down into the tables in detail. We will focus fragmentaryly on some of the findings that cause questions, then making some counter-proposals that we have as Golden Dawn. As indicated on page 3 of the report, a reduction in the costs is achieved through the operation of the electronic document-sharing system, when an increase in the costs in question is due to be incurred at the level of EUR 100 000. Parliamentary allowances are unfortunately still unchanged under code 0121, reflecting the positive economic climate created by the government's communication propaganda, regardless of whether private sector wages are reduced by part-time work, which has exceeded total for the first time in September last year. I should like to refer to some of the codes that make us very impressed. I see CA code 0123 referring to the organisational allowance for Members' Office. As far as I know, the offices of the district parliamentarians here in Athens are free of charge. Why would the House pay for the organization of offices? That should be the burden of every Member of Parliament, because it is not too little of the money we receive. There is the CA code 0215 which refers to a liability allowance, which is increased by EUR 38 000 for this year's budget to EUR 638 000. As far as I know - and I would like a clarification - there was an old responsibility allowance, so that they would not "punch the spoon in honey" in order not to steal. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a moment, Mr President, please. There is also the CK code 0225 for the benefit of dangerous and unhealthy work. Truly, who are those in Parliament receiving an unhealthy job allowance? If you want to see what unhealthy work is, come to my area, put you on a pebble to take you to the fields, plunge you under the sun, to see what the real conditions of unhealthy work are. There are some other allowances related to CK 0212. Refers to the abolition of the library allowance and its partial incorporation into the basic salary. Also, there is code 0561 for employment compensation in excess of normal working hours allocated to the offices. We do not know how to pay overtime to any of our scientific partners or to those who are seconded by the public authorities. There are also costs of moving other people - members of Parliament within EUR 1.750 000 with code 0716. Daily allowances for mobile employees internally or abroad EUR 42 000. However, what gives rise to an algal impression is the post office: 25 thousand euros. Is there a man today who uses the post office? It's all done electronically. Everything is done by e-mail, whether it relates to letters or even wishes. Code 0844 refers to exhibitions, conferences and cultural events. There is even a footnote that there has been a reduction due to the organization of a exhibition dedicated to the memory of Nikos Belogannis. Once again, you are stumbling your sick ideas. Other special fees: Here there is an appropriation of EUR 900 000, which is included mainly to cover the operating costs of the television station: renting of television programme, subtitlement and compiling, as well as producer costs. We're talking about the Channel in the House. We are talking about a channel, Mr President, where, as is the case systematically, the only party that does not have access to it, whether it is a panel involving representatives of all parties, is Golden Dawn, which you must take on. With what right, Mr President, do you exclude Greece's third electoral political force from discussions or from positions on the TV channel of the Parliament? This is true, as I told you, and the state ERT, where over 500 000 voters of the Golden Dawn pay the ERT and have the right to monitor the positions and views of the Golden Dawn. In conclusion, I would like to refer to something that you have not abolished and I honestly do not know when it is. I have the impression that it was pre-war. It is about supplying footwear with code 1423, that is, shoes. This was a reduction - that is a miracle - from EUR 20,000 to EUR 17 000. As I mentioned before, I have the impression that this was after World War II. In order for a civil servant to be presentable, there was a sponsorship from the Greek state in respect of clothing and footwear. Today why do all these benefits continue to be granted? If you want, you can improve the cuts in Parliament's spending budget for the financial year 2018 and we, as Golden Dawn, commit that any cuts are made that will be given specifically to undignified people, such as flooded people, will vote in favour of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr Shahinides. Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos has the floor on behalf of the JRC.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. The JRC's position on the role of Parliament in the civil system is known. I won't extend to that. So the Parliament's budget must also be seen as being - and it could not be otherwise - an integral part of the state budget, and that is in the view that Parliament's budget is adapted to economic policy, so as the budget itself says, in the achievement of the objectives of the medium-term budgetary strategy, which the previous governments, as well as the current one, are implementing. This is a policy that basically burdens the burdens of the capitalist economic crisis on the backs of the working class and the rest of the populace, providing, on the other hand, simpler and more provocative privileges, incentives or tax exemptions and tax reliefs to the large business groups, in order to ensure their competitiveness and profitability, not only in the period of the crisis, but also in the period of any capitalist development. It is this anti-popular policy that passes through Parliament's legislative work against the interests of the majority of our people, resulting in a constant decline in the number of conquests and rights, but also a drastic reduction in the income of workers. Of course, it's far from the JRC. However, we must stress that, as a party from the first moment, after the reintegration, we have actually stressed that there must be a brave reduction in parliamentary allowances on a permanent basis. We have said that and we have tabled proposals for the abolition of parliamentary pensions, as well as the abolition of the other Members' prerogatives. After all, as Members of the Communist Party of Greece, we do so in practice, giving all the compensation to the party's funds. In any case, the concept of the Communist Party of Greece for the role of MP in socialism is completely different from the role of MP in the civil political system. There we are talking about the representation of workers and other social groups, where they will be characterised by the irrevocability without any privilege or extra remuneration of another kind, as is pointed out in the programme of the Communist Party of Greece. We believe that, even for the 2018 Parliament budget that we are discussing, there are costs that can be reduced even further and one of them is parliamentary compensation or the abolition of compensation for Members' participation in the various committees of the Parliament. At the same time - in the JRC's opinion - we consider that there are other expenditure on the functioning of Parliament and on the workers of Parliament, which, in our view, are ruthless and should be increased. We stress this for the salaries of workers in the House, which, of course, is not limited to them alone, but also to the workers in our country as a whole. In total, we are struggling to restore to all the workers the huge losses which have been suffered over the past period and not to apply to public sector workers the single wage, which is a poor bill. Four points we want to put on the substance of the 2018 Parliament budget. The first concerns the increased employers' contribution to EVA, which goes beyond EUR 2.5 million, on the one hand being dealt with by an increase in the budget of EUR 1 million and, on the other hand, by a reduction of EUR 1 million in Parliament's transfer payments. Here we must stress what we have said in committee, that this reduction in transfer payments must not be at the expense of the financing of cultural and other bodies, supported and financed by the House. The second point, which we want to put, relates to the EUR 100,000 increase in Members' pay for increased participation in the meetings of Parliament's committees. We do not accept that. We stress that overall compensation for participation in parliamentary committees must be abolished. The third point we want to put is that there is a EUR 506 000 reduction in the payroll of permanent staff, but also of the civil servants of the House who are the result of the achievement of the single wage and salary. We cannot agree with that. On the other hand, we say that the enormous losses which have been lost over the past few years and the workers in the House, like the other private and public workers, must be restored. At this point, we must stress that the increase in the budget of EUR 250,000 for the payroll of contract staff - which will increase the number of fixed-term contract staff - is part of the overall policy. This is not a policy of the House - something we must recognise - but it is the result of the overall policy implemented by the Government for overall overthrows in labour relations, in the context of the liberalisation of the labour market. The fourth point, with which I shall close, relates to the reduction of around EUR 100,000 in the financing of the Parliamentary Station. We want to stress that this should not be at the expense of the attempt to upgrade the whole channel of the House. Thus, for all these specific reasons, we are voting 'at present' in Parliament's budget for 2018. Also, we will vote in the 2016 report, not because there is some question about how the budget was supported and how the budget was implemented, but for the same political reasons that we had voted'residents' when we then discussed the Parliament's budget for 2016. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. I would like to make an update to just record it in the Minutes. Mr Kammenos, as rapporteur for the Independent Greeks, had to leave because he had an appointment. He would therefore like to convey his positive vote on the report, but also on the budget of the House. He also wanted to pay congratulations and thank the employees. Mr Ioannis Saridis has the floor for five minutes from the Centroon Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u34	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have often referred as the Central Association to the permanent position of our party to reduce expenditure, both in the public and in the wider public sector. We believe that even today, which has already taken some attempts to save resources, there is plenty of room in this direction. It is true, for example, that there are still unregulated entities. As also, it is true that almost every draft law submitted by the government is establishing a new public structure, an agency, with all that that implies to the state's finances. We have the same position on Parliament's expenditure. But we regret, once again, that the government has a different view. Because the people are suffering, we must not allow the wrong impression of money to be formed, but there are only for those who govern and for those who are favoured who are around those who govern, so that some of their demands are met every year. We should therefore be able to explain the seventy-six people increase in the number of private employees. Since last year we had given the Government "congratulations", as the Union of Centres, because it managed to exceed the number of officials serving in New Democracy. These "congratulations", as you can see, were ironically. However, the Government took it into account. Thus, the total number of officials in this House has been appalledly reached by a thousand four hundred seventy - five, with a clear and steady upward trend. All of this, despite the most important, which is mentioned on page 3 of the report, that is to say through the operation of the electronic document-sharing system, a release of sufficient human resources is achieved. But this year there is a second first one, since for the first time after 2009 the Parliament's budget was increased by EUR 1 million compared to the previous year. All the previous ones were able to withstand the cutback in expenditure, only the current government did not succeed and chose to reinstate expenditure on an upward orbit. Achievement of this thing is the almost tenacity of the budget with the code CA 0131, an employer contribution in favour of ECA, for MEPs, who were subject to a pension scheme outside the public sector, which, from EUR 225,000 in 2017, is escalated to EUR 2.187 000 in 2018. This is probably not enough on page 5 of the report, and we should be given more and more details. A special reference should be made to the heading under CN code 0134, concerning employers' contributions to Members, who were subject to a public pension scheme, with an increase of 115%. There are, of course, other increases in expenditure, which, yes, relate to small amounts, but cannot be explained, for example under CA 1512, the supply of fuel, heating and management of public bodies, with an increase of EUR 60,000, while the government is struggling to convince our fellow citizens that oil will be sold this year clearly less than last year. We must, of course, admit that where expenditure is reduced, it is generally welcomed. Incidentally, I would like to remind the House that in last year's report it was said that the target for an overall upgrading of the House and for a brave opening to society, to modern problems, new scientific potential, particular social and cultural sensitivity, within the environment of the five-year crisis and much more. So now, when ending in 2017, is it possible to have a detailed report on all this? Ladies and gentlemen, any attempt to curb waste and unnecessary expenditure must be sought and praised, and we, as the Central Association, always act well and always seek consensus. We are prepared to hear any new idea of saving resources and to support any initiative that helps to achieve this, provided that it is based on logic and supported by sound figures. However, we believe there is still room for other institutional interventions, which we consider to be very important, such as the further reduction of parliamentary compensation, the reduction of three hundred Members in two hundred, the abolition of old parliamentary pensions. Regardless of all of these, the Centrons' Union is voting "yes" in all the Parliament's budget codes for the year 2018. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr. Saridis. On this point and before I give the floor to Mr Mavrotas, I would like to inform the House that they have expressed interest in speaking three of the parliamentary representatives, and then the President of Parliament, Mr Voutsis, will close the sitting. Mr George Mavrotas has the floor for five minutes from the Potamian Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Let me begin with something the speaker said from Golden Dawn, that no one had thought of proposing part of the surplus to go to the wounded Attica. Let me remind him or rather let him know, if he does not know, that as early as Wednesday that we had been having the debate in committee from this House on the Step forward, I told the Minister to think of some of the things we were discussing about the social dividend, about the surplus to go to those affected in West Attica.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u37	And now, make sure the party grant goes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u38	Yeah. As far as this issue is concerned with the 2018 budget and the 2016 budget, I think we should be honest with the citizens. The functioning of democracy and Parliament has a cost, but obviously the benefit is multiple than any other citizen. Here too, because over time populism and yellowism of the press have found rich food for what it has to do with the budget of the Greek Parliament, that is, what it has to do with the costs of running democracy, we must be honest and fully transparent with the citizens. I think that in recent years there have been significant reductions, 40% compared to 2009, which started the crisis and I do not know whether it is possible to further reduce the quality of work, which Parliament must support, that is to say, if we can optimise Parliament's functioning even more, on the basis of this budget. What is certainly needed is that there should always be information on expenditure, that there should always be transparency, so that there is no room to create impressions and distortions. Transparency is the antidote in every whisper. We also gladly see e-government processes moving forward in the parliamentary work, which will modernise it, while also saving resources. In relation to the codes, I'm not going to go into details. Our rapporteur, Mr Dannelis, has also said so in committee. I would also like to express, both my personal thanks and gratitude, and our party for the labour force, the friendly and constant efforts to respond to the very increased demands of Parliament's staff. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say that we are also voting in favour of Parliament's statement of expenditure for the financial year 2016, as well as the new expenditure budget for the Parliament of 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr Mavrotas, and the economy in time. We are done with the rapporteurs and the special speakers. Mr Dimitrios Vettas has the floor for five minutes as a parliamentary representative of SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u40	I don't need that much, Mr. President. In view of the fact that I was not present at the first meeting of the committee, various questions were answered by Mr Athanasios, and by Mr Pappas, for liability allowances, for benefits for unhealthy and dangerous work. So I wondered whether labour law would work in our Parliament. Will our Parliament be governed by labour laws and rules? Obviously, the answer is 'yes'. So I wonder why all these questions. I was also concerned when I heard a question that was raised by a colleague. For example, while our rapporteur's report clearly states that these EUR 2.5 million increase in expenditure mainly relates to Parliament's expenditure for ECA, I wondered whether it was a random question that was addressed by my colleague. But the question was solved immediately afterwards, because the next question was the reduction in the number of Members of Parliament, and I will explain why. Today, as I was the day before yesterday, I was inspired by Mr Koutsuku's speech. Today was an extremely good placement. I wonder, then, how it is possible to get into our Parliament, or if you want to set it up for the better, by reducing the number of Members, and by not answering serious problems, which will arise from the reduction of Members and not enter into issues of moral order and I would say 'transfers' of Members from one parliamentary group to another parliamentary group, in the same parliamentary term. And that is more serious, when this question or position is addressed by new Members, such as myself, Mr President, and does not react to the political system, the new Members do not react, the people who are presently presently appearing to the Greek people as 'new Members', as 'new', as 'indestructible', as 'non-destructive'. You know, these problems will be solved by the great debate, which will evolve during the debate on the revision of our Constitution. That's where all the issues are going to be discussed. Obviously, each of us has his views and obviously he can express them, but I think it is extremely dangerous to discuss our democracy today only on the basis of money. So I ask: are we cutting the budget by 2 million, what have we improved our democracy? We're increasing him by 5. What did we do better with her? So you saw that these questions do not respond skinally and do not respond so easily. I would say, therefore, because it hears people who are having a hard time telling the world this - and this is what the political system says - that the Member has suffered - I was not a Member at that time, but I have to admit it - a 40% reduction in all his benefits and from 1-1-2016 to 10%. He'll suffer another if that's what we decide. No one disagrees with that. But let us say, Mr President, to the world - and let us all say it - that this injustice in taxation has been normalised. Let's say that! Let us also say that a large part of the Members - and not hide that - of the new Members is not going to be retired. We'll be back and retire from our agency. We must say that, Mr President, and not one of us hides it, because the damage will be suffered by our Republic.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u41	While you pay contributions, anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u42	Of course! Of course, Mr President. You're right. So I think that only bad services offer any such positions, which are 'blints, horns'. If I want to play or hear or say something, because I don't have anything else or say something, because that's all I have, so I'm saying that. Let us therefore be careful, Mr President, what we say to the Greek people. To a very large extent, our Parliament, I would say - as a whole, I mean credibility, because it is the world, but let us not stir up our very good intentions from within. Thank you, very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr. Vetta. Mr Vetta, you have referred to a number of things concerning the Central Group's parliamentary group, but unfortunately the speaker is not here to answer you. I wouldn't want to abuse my presence at the Stepma to be placed. You know the positions and some things are symbolic. I shall refer to what you say, that we new Members are not entitled to a pension from the House. However, some of them in the past were taken by 2012. These are things that, for symbolic reasons, we have to study and look at. I would not like to abuse the Step in order to speak partyly, because it is not my position. We therefore continue with the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, Mr Ioannis Kefaloniannis. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. I, too, would like to convey the condolences of both the President of the New Democracy, Mr Mitsotakis, as well as the aggregation of the parliamentary group and of the resignation of the victims of the natural disaster and, of course, to say that this is not the right time to talk about responsibilities. It's time to support the victims' families. We'll have time to see them along the way. However, what I would like to put forward - and I will end with this in relation to this chapter - is the fact that the Prime Minister of the country, Mr Tsipras, on the day that, quite rightly, he declared the country in national mourning, decided to leave the country and attend Sweden at a conference on social Europe. In other words, at a time when there are missing persons and the time when this situation of extreme weather is continuing, unfortunately, Mr Tsipras is out of the country. And I stop here on this matter. As regards the budget and the report of the House, I think our rapporteur has covered them. I would agree with many colleagues - and with Mr Vetta earlier - that, at some point, populism must stop in this Chamber. Because when we talk about populism, unfortunately, it starts through this Chamber. And you know, I have no requirement from some who may not really believe in democracy to stop populism. However, when I hear colleagues from parliamentary groups who at least have not taken samples of populism refer to matters relating to the cost of democracy, I really have too many doubts and too many questions. If we really want to show ourselves to our fellow citizens with a clear face, with a clear word - and I am referring to as a Member from the younger generation - we should start with some truths. Indeed - and I will agree with many of the previous speakers - we ourselves have started through the House and set the example first by making some necessary cuts in order to make a financial adjustment. It is even mentioned in the report that the House budget, starting in 2009 until today, has been reduced by 40%. Reductions in Members' salaries have exceeded 45%, not only 40%. As Mr Vetta quite rightly said, many of us will not retire. And they won't retire, even though bookings are made. This must be noted. They're booking from parliamentary wages and we know we won't retire.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u45	In the professional cashiers...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u46	That's right. I would therefore like to say that if we really want to appear to the Greek people with a clear face, we must at some point stop populism in this Chamber because we export populism to our fellow citizens and then we have the requirement that they do not follow populism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr. Kefaliannis. Last of the parliamentarians have said that Mr Panayotarus wants to speak. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for five minutes, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to express my wholehearted condolences to the families of the victims of this tragic disaster. We hope that the missing will find themselves safe and sound. Of course, as time passes, things are getting harder and harder. Three days after the total destruction of the West Attica, with sixteen dead, six missing, dozens injured, thousands of homes, shops, cars destroyed and all the infrastructures in the region have been literally rooted, we hear from the government, from the District Administrator, who is the materially responsible for this whole tragedy, incredible excuses and vocals. They are clearly responsible and have a name. It is Mrs Durou, and they are also the co-legislative ministers who, if anything, had to ask for a great apology. For the rest, it turns out, justice will rule, and we see. For political equilibrium, of course, no reason. You see, the chair is very sweet, and some people don't leave it with anything. Mrs Dourou election in April 2014 stated that the anti-military planning of Attica does not take more than six months to complete. It has been almost three and a half years, Mr President, it is November 2017 and nothing has happened at all. This proved to be the most tragic way. In fact, he promised that if he didn't do it right he would quit. But don't go any further. In fact, you literally banged the West Attica and literally and transportly. The images we see from television receivers - some have gone there too, some have not dared to go - are tragic. A study has been in place since 2014 for the anti-military protection of the region. In 2015 the first technical report was costed 10 million euros, but it did not go any further and only in September 2017 the first revision of this technical report took place, even with a million cape. But it doesn't matter. I wish the work had gone on even with a cape. On November 6, 2017, there is a meeting of the Regional Unit of Western Attica where the authorities - and it seems, the unresponsible and the completely irresponsible persons - held a meeting and came to the conclusion that they are ready to deal with any weather that hit Western Attica. One day later Mrs Durou made heavy statements, said and assured that the region is ready. The conclusion of this meeting was that everything is fine and we are ready. It took only nine days to happen an extreme weather phenomenon - yes, no one denys it - to literally dissolve everything and all those who, with their statements nine days ago, said that they were ready to know no where to hide. Because that's what this is about. The periphery does not exist before and during and after. Before, why else they assured. During, because nothing happened. We're not telling the time when this flood occurred. A few hours after what residents were asking for was that primarily they had no water to drink and none of the governors had gone to take them even a few bottled waters. Even now if you go to Mandra, there are people who still can't get out of their homes of this huge catastrophe that's happened. And the only thing that we see on the part of Mrs Durou is the dismantling and displacement of responsibilities and indeed to her partners. Just yesterday, he blamed Mr. Spirtzi, who had made statements in 2017, that it is the year of anti-military works. It ends, of course, in 2017 and Greece has flooded, because after Mandra, northern Greece was flooded, now just a moment ago, Keratsini and we hear that where it rains strongly floods everything. Mrs. Durou was trying not to remember the 2014 election statement by people, but of course they've come out in all the media and she can't hide anything. And after being conducted by the Ice Bay Attorney's office, an investigation was filed to see who was the fault of Mrs. Duru and filed a lawsuit. To herself? Because the mirror should be looking at the time he filed this lawsuit. Mayor Mandras was yelling...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u49	Mr. Panayiot, I'm sorry, let me interrupt you a little, with all due respect.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u50	I wouldn't want you to interrupt me. I'll finish in two minutes and say what you want, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u51	You have already completed your speech...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u52	All right, give me a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u53	...and you've dedicated him to something that's out of the process. You know that by the Rules of Procedure of the House...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u54	I am a parliamentary representative, Mr President, and there are dozens dead and missing and injured.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u55	Let me finish what I want to say and I'll give you the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u56	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u57	You know from the Rules of Procedure that you are not going to leave this much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u58	In a minute you'll lie to me as soon as I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u59	I would ask you very much, if you would like, to discuss both the budget and close your report.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President. Let me finish. Mayor Mandras came out with evidence and said what didn't happen in the last three years. The Prime Minister went yesterday. He didn't, of course, go to the city of Mandra, he went there somewhere, to the border with Elefsina, because he was attracting him, because he went to the Prime Minister Gulfstream and went to Sweden and all good. What should be done? A lot should be done. Now what has to be done after all this has happened. That's another matter. There are people, few who have no roof to stay, because the problem was not mostly roofs except for the few homes. All professional sites have been destroyed, ground floors, basements, all in fact. Immediately they need water and some kinds of first need, and then we go to the very serious one. There is not a single car left that is not destroyed in the wider area. These people wanted to move their cars, work, business, farms. They must be given immediate help from the state, not at the pace that the state is progressing, as we have seen in the earthquakes in Kos and in Lesvos or in the summer fires where even now, of course, no citizen has received anything at all. For shops, homes, overcoming bureaucracy and giving all the help they need, so that these people can survive. Of course, by end, any resignations need emotive, honest, dignity, which among the chairmen who run this place does not exist. The sixteen dead will remind you of the disgrace you have done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr. Panayotar. The President of Parliament, Mr Nikolaos Voutsis, has the floor to close the procedure today. Mr President, you will allow me to make two comments before you begin your speech, and I think that is what both the Bureau of Parliament and the majority of colleagues from all the parties and, of course, it is a personal position. Let us congratulate you and thank you for the way in which you run the temple of democracy and are presided over. The second point I consider to be very important is the following. For my part, and as a Bureau, we would like to thank all the officials in this House who help us with the proper parliamentary work, to be here, as they are for too many hours and hours that exceed their normal working hours. Thank you very much. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u62	Thank you very much. I will stay on the agenda because the issue we are discussing is very serious and I shall take the opportunity of addressing a few more general comments on both the political system and the role of the House. I should like to begin by thanking all of us, all the Members of Parliament, to the services, to the Directors-General, the Directors-General, the Chiefs and all the Members of this House for the way in which they perform their duties and help to implement, at this cost, within the accounts and budget, the work of the House by strengthening its status both internally and abroad. We really thank them from the heart, because he's an experienced staff, who systematically does his work. I will say a few more general things about what the experienced and highly respected colleague, Mr Koutsoukos, has said in relation to the political system. I feel the obligation to say it - as other parties representatives have mentioned - because these relate to the needs of this budget, balance sheet, codes and so on. It's not two topics separately. Ladies and gentlemen, on all matters, we have an obligation to see the aftermath of the crisis. And that won't be a momentous thing - we all have a conscience and a feeling - neither as to the healing of the wounds of society nor as to the consequences, the surveillance, etc. However, as this time is coming, we should have this broader perspective on all issues. This broader perspective also says and shows, as far as Parliament is concerned, that it is very important that it can very quickly be rectified and made a greater contribution to making people pass from one situation to another. One could easily say - in quantitative terms, seeing things - that the House could have half the parliamentary diplomacy or not do so, do the absolutely necessary and communicate, for example, via e-mail. One could also say that sponsorship should be cut rather than increased to a number of bodies - which are in a difficult situation and because of a crisis, that is, beyond the needs of their actions - in all areas of intellectual, artistic, cultural, historical or any other dimension of the life of the country. One could also say that the tours or hostels made by the House, in which more than a hundred or twenty thousand people and particularly students each year respond to more than a hundred and twenty thousand, are not needed, so they do not need to be spent. Let alone say that there are no incomes. This is not a wage for what Members get. It's neither an allowance nor a wage. They are specific remunerations for a specific project for the years that someone has been here. It could be said that only those who can from their profession or family manage things and conduct politics can be MPs. As can also be said, the parties do not get any state aid and are supported through a public, transparent platform of amplifiers, supporters, etc. I am referring to things that have already been said or published in relation to this House in the crisis, how we are going, how we are going, how we are going, how we are going to budgets, etc. It is a political choice not to do anything but do what we do and not to listen to these 'lines'. It's a political choice, I repeat. As it is a political choice to try best - I do not want to say today, today, the words'resist' - to support the views on democracy, the political system and the Constitution in Greece against claims that are from time to time from lenders in the discussions that have taken place in previous years and relate to a case-by-case but systematic depreciation of the political system in Greece. For whoever doesn't understand, I repeat. There have been pressures on the issue of the state subsidy of the parties, on the issue of the possibility of parties - and - fund fundraisers and excursions, on the part of Parliament in relation to the independent authorities, in so far as the Constitution imposes, rather than all the independent authorities - born as mushrooms - in addition to the five constitutional systems, by the ministries and executive power. They must come with their budgets and be controlled as independent authorities and, if necessary, in direct contact - let me tell you - and with centres outside our country, in the budget of the House. Pressure has also been exerted on 'outside'. We have been to a committee where there are only three members of the political system and the others are judges and representatives of other bodies etc. Months have been discussed to go to this compromise and to be chaired by the Vice-President of the House, which somehow replaces me. This was done on the basis of an article by Boudestag, which allowed the President of the German Parliament to be president and used for our part. Because the demand was, and is still, that there should be no one from the political system in the control of the political system - where only the elected parties are obliged to make their incomes public - and that they should be completely out of control by the representatives of the political system themselves. There has been much more in the name of an enormous international populism against the Greek political system - because this is what this is about - that, since they have never said so explicitly - the political system in Greece has led to bankruptcy and has not been and is not able to manage the loans and debts of the Greek state, all of which must be passed on to independent authorities, to NGOs, in direct contact with independent income authorities, to a premium for the party function, which is a pillar of the Constitution and democracy. Party function is not anyone's hobby, it's not something past, it's not something prosthetic and short-term in relation to democracy, along with other pillars: hereditaries, self-government, movements, trade unions, etc. The parliamentary system wants this support, this support. I've got a chance to tell you this. It is obviously also a matter for the Members. A more specific debate will be needed, which I do not want to make public, because things are in the hands of what has been said and of the foreseeable and immediate future, in terms of wages, wages, allowances, etc. There will have to be some debates with responsibility and with the relevant ministries, etc., to look at these issues. It is clear that remuneration has declined very much. It is clear that all staff in this House have been treated in everything with civil servants, that the tax regime has been fully harmonized, that very serious reductions have been made, to the extent that work can be done. This is therefore a central issue. We must not forget. I wanted to put it from this Step. The debate on the budget and the report of the House is not a technical debate. Parliament's autonomy under the Constitution was also retained, without any privileged treatment. Because, I repeat, there has been harmonisation in everything and, indeed, steps have been taken - and you know that - with regard to evaluation and staff crises, more ahead of the rest of the State. However, under the Constitution, the House must now have, for the first time and a code specific to the Bank of Greece, through which this data is managed and made financially available, with the Court of Auditors here, present, and with preventive control from the first euro, for all expenditure. But this autonomy must be retained as an eye daughter, precisely because it involves, presupposes, encourages and supports democracy and the relationship of the three powers. That is why I think that these more general political references were needed. It could be comfortable for the funds to be less or more. The budget is within the medium term. I propose to Parliament that, by a plenary decision, a direct sum, perhaps a special code, of at least 1 million, for aid to the flooders. That seems to me to be a self-evident process for us. Either way, the House is very close to what is happening in society in its functions. You must know that last year and this year there has been a high sponsorship effort from Parliament to the regions, from the point of view of the schools that have been charged with this afternoon's lessons for refugees and migrants, from the point of view of heating oil, as well as for other needs that arise. It's not right to go any further. To say again my thanks to all the staff, to the administration of this House. The extroversion, which we encourage, is very helpful. I think it helps the House itself. We saw the other day about the archives. There is one question with regard to labour, and I want to be very clear, I have said so in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. And these are optional topics. The House may hire about twenty-two officials, undetermined, according to the data of the loan contracts concluded by the country. I mean one in four, one in five etc., for three years. This process that concerns the majority of these people, will take place for selected sites, selected specialties, will take place in 2017 and will be done through SAEP. From that point on, we made a choice two years ago - and we made it right - that no one should leave. And this must be recognised by those who have fixed-term contracts. It must also be recognised for the reason that it is, rather, well known that the appointments were also made in the House, etc., from previous situations. This potential has now been fully exploited - because this is the real issue - by increasing the possibilities that Parliament has in all directions. Perhaps, there is another need for this and there has been a review of contracts, if I am not twenty - thirty, over the two years. It is the least, and there will still be those who need it, if the work of this House really is opened up in the horizon we are discussing. That is to say, the new file section with this range - I mean the subject on the field - which we announced yesterday, but also some new legal services in this House. We are also trying to see the ownership status of the House and its ownership over the buildings, and many more which are files which were well or wrong - I am not making any criticism in the past - were not opened, they were not handled, they were not modernised. For the House to take these steps, therefore, they have been adopted by means of the Rules of Procedure for strategic planning and for executive units that will see these things. Also, there are four or five projects in front of a large number of large budgets, with tenders that will take place by the end of 2017 and throughout 2018, with international tenders for works agreed, which will help in the medium or long term the building and finance of the Parliament, in relation to the savings of resources or the creation of very large spaces in the center of Athens and elsewhere, which will be a great offer in total for the country. These jobs are done by people. Or you're giving out - so I want to say these things from a microphone - to friends and non-friends, to the name of the real predicament - now that they don't hire these jobs more and more - to say so - to be done from the outside, ad hoc, to a portion or in any way or you don't do them at all - and you're keeping the files of the issues where we found them again - or which we're looking for them yet - or you're doing them using all the power of this House and you add very, very, very much, for whatever time it takes extra and scientific and other potential. This is the concept on the basis of which we are operating and conceived here all of the democratic parties in the country, and at least those who have also passed from governance. That's a choice. So, on the basis of this choice, the budget has been made and the budget has been calculated for the past year and, on this basis, we will proceed and until this period ends, believing that we are all leaving us a footprint of loyalty, of democratic operation, of the use of all resources and, in particular, of human resources - which is the greatest capital and the most worthy resource for Parliament - and in particular by strengthening Parliament's relations with society at all times, as they have reasonably been called into question because of the policies which have necessarily or less forcedly been followed in these years by the memoranda and other commitments. Clear words, then. The choices are political. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr President. I do not think anyone in this House would disagree with your proposal to support the affected. Before we proceed to vote and conclude the procedure, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to Parliament, in accordance with Article 86 of the Constitution and Article 3126/2003 "Prime Responsibility of the Ministers", as in force on 15-11-2017, a criminal case for the Minister of Shipping Mr Panagiotis Kourublis. It is known to the House that the Ministers for Finance, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Environment and Energy, the Deputy Minister of Finance, as well as the Deputy Minister of Finance and Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, tabled a draft law on 14-11-2017: "Dissemination of Social Partition and other provisions". This draft law has been classified by the government as urgent. It was referred to the Co-legislative Standing Committees. Also, the Standing Committees on Economic Affairs, Social Affairs and Production and Trade submit their report to the draft law of the Ministry of Finance "Distribution of Social Partitions and other provisions". The State Budget and General Balance sheet Committee and the State Budgetary Control of the State Budget shall submit its report to the draft laws of the Ministry of Finance: (a) ‘Following the State's Report, financial year 2015’ (b) ‘Repeal of the State Balance Sheet, financial year 2015’. I would also like to inform the House that MP Constantine Skrekas is requesting permission from a few days' absence abroad from 22 November to 27 November 2017. The Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis - the spokesman - is requesting a short-day absence abroad on 24 November 2017 and on 7 December to 8 December 2017. The Member, George Amyras, shall request permission from a short-day absence abroad from 22 November to 28 November 2017. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u64	The House therefore approved the requested authorisations. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the Expenditure Report of the Parliament, the financial year 2016 and the draft budget for the Parliament, for the financial year 2018, is hereby declared at the end of the debate. Asked by the House: Can Parliament's Expenditure Report, financial year 2016, be accepted at the expense of, and as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u65	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u66	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u67	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u68	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u69	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u70	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u71	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u72	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u73	Consequently, the Expenditure Report of the Parliament, the financial year 2016, was accepted by way of expense, results from its use and overall, in a single debate, by a majority of the following:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u74	Does the House agree that Parliament's expenditure budget for the financial year 2018 is to be accepted at the expense of the whole of the budget?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u75	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u76	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u77	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u78	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u79	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u80	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u81	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u82	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u83	Consequently, the Expenditure budget of the Parliament, for the financial year 2018, was accepted at the expense of the total, in a single debate, by a majority, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u84	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to confirm the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u85	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. The Minutes of Monday 2 October, Wednesday 4 October, Thursday 5 October, Friday 6 October, Monday 9 October, Tuesday 10 October, Thursday 12 October, Friday 13 October and Monday 16 October 2017 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u86	Therefore the Minutes of Monday 2 October, Wednesday 4 October, Thursday 5 October, Friday 6 October, Monday 9 October, Tuesday 10 October, Thursday 12 October, Friday 13 October and Monday 16 October 2017 were ratified.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u87	Mr President, at this point I would like you to announce the provision in code for the 1 million euro for the immediate relief of flooding. In this way, the services will then be able to form the corresponding code based on the publication.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u88	I would therefore like to inform the House that the President of Parliament is empowered by a decision of the House to pay EUR 1 million from the available funds for the floods of the Western Attica. Once again, I would like to congratulate and thank the officials of the House for their help throughout the financial year. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-17-S1-commons.u89	With the agreement of the House at 12.40 p.m., the meeting for the next Monday, November 20, 2017, on the subject of Parliament's work: legislative work, only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Dissemination of Social Partition and other provisions", according to the agenda distributed.
