ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-10-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to the Parliament's approval of 9 November 2017, the minutes of the CF were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau, on Thursday, 9 November 2017, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: "The harmonisation of Greek law with the European Directive 2003/88/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 November 2003 on certain aspects of the organisation of working time" regarding the organization of the working time of doctors and dentists of the CS. - I.D. Doctors' arrangements. and other provisions.’;]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS We begin with the fourth Question No 149/24-10-2017, on the second-round question by Z' Vice-President of the Parliament and Mr Spyridon Lykoudis, on the subject of 'Increasing refugee flows'. Please, Mr. Lykoudi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-10-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we as parliamentarians, I think almost all of us, but as political persons, but also the citizens of this country, have had the impression for a very long time that the refugee issue had been on a bunker somewhere, that somewhere it was running into a groove, that is to say, it had gone a little too far and was not in the immediate and daily news. We have seen recently that a new picture has been created. And you have said that we have increased flows once again. The "Doctors Without Borders" sent a letter to the Prime Minister saying that the situation has reached unprecedented points. Mayor Lesvos in a letter to the President of Parliament, who, if anyone reads it, sees it as a letter of despair, speaks of a situation which may also go out of control. We have before us the risk of a crisis coming up again, similar to the 2015 crisis. In June about two thousand arrived our islands. In August there were three thousand six hundred. In September there were five thousand. Since early October, some seven hundred people have arrived, while only in the first two days of this last week four hundred forty more. The suffocating hot spots, the conditions prevailing there, the suffocating pressure that exists in their daily living, etc., create reasonable concerns for all of us. So I am also waiting - and I think the citizens of this country - with special interest to tell me, as the Minister responsible: Is the Ministry able to deal with these new increased migration flows, the new situation? What kind of consultation have you done - if you have done or can - Minister, with the European Commissioner for Immigration, in order to deal adequately with the issue? Is the Ministry going to take steps on letters and 'Doctors Without Borders' and the Mayor of Lesvos? And finally, what is the design and actions you have in mind and with what timetable? Questions are many, but their point of reference is only one: What do you think to do now that we are back in front of a problem with growth trends? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-10-S1-commons.u3	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-10-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Lykoudis, your questions are both important and targeted and on a proper basis and obviously need to be answered to the extent that they can be answered. What do we got? We have this situation since 20 August. Things until 20 August were good to moderate in the islands. We have a very great deterioration, as I have said, in Mytilini, Chios, but where we dissolved a camp, Souda, which was there and which was a constant request from the island, and Samos. We have an overpopulation that goes beyond tolerable limits. We cannot deal with this one week after it takes place, ten days after it is done. He needs a prep. He wants us to find room. The Europe-Turkey Agreement remains very important to the Government. We're in a position to deal with it. But if, for example, flows increase to five hundred a day, that is, we have a new doubling, then it is all issues that will be discussed again. I am telling you that according to these current flows, which are twice as much flows as those which were in May, June and July and which created the problem. Let me say and finish in the theoretical place, that everything has entered a groove until the rain strengthens. That's something you can understand. It's a matter of common sense. We are dealing with a situation. I've said it before: No one's a wizard. Bunkers don't have the hat in there. Magic wands don't exist. Every time we adjust to the situation. If a new 2015 happens - which will not happen - it would be excessive to say 'all right, and we will do and we will sew'. We will, however, deal with it as we have seen many situations. We're not at this stage. We're getting ready for the reunion. They have gone up all the kinds they need for the excitement. We're about to put in new houses. We are taking off the individual scenes that we have had to set up to house this overpopulation and intensifying transport inland on the basis of the Europe-Turkey Agreement. The vulnerable are transported in the mainland. As you know, there are problems in our relationship with mayors. I repeat this in Parliament that I never call it disgraceful. I understand their anxiety. I understand the problems that are created. So we have problems with the mayors. I'm not unlike the mayors. We'll search and find solutions. We will apply alternative ways of housing for the inside world. We're on a standby. Then I will also present you with a paper, which puts everything I say in a specific way, namely, what to say to move to other structures, what projects will be done, what personnel are there in every kit, what is done with the medical staff, with the transfer procedures and with the removal of geographical limitations, with systematic information with staff groups, so that they can be useful for you, as you always do, to contribute positively to dealing with this. The main problem we have is the problem of refunds. In trying to implement international law and the Geneva Convention, we have a very long delay in returns. At the moment we have legal groups that are considering what changes need to be made to our legislative system, so that we can speed up decisions and implement decisions, whether it is about going back to Turkey or going inland. We do not care about the result, but we want the decisions to speed them up. There's a problem. Yesterday we learned that in Germany, for example, his system is in crisis. We are the first country in the world in analogy to the population. We have fifty-six thousand asylum applications, which are appealed after. Germany, with an asylum forty years with a legislative system more rapid than our own, has to deal with three hundred and sixty-six thousand actions, and now they are looking again to see how - we all have to see it in Europe - without violations of international law we can effectively speed up decisions so that a solution can be found. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-10-S1-commons.u5	Mr Lykoudis, you have the floor for three minutes again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-10-S1-commons.u6	Fifteen days ago, I tabled the question we are discussing today and at the same time as I can assure you that, in discussions with myself, I was feeling against this big issue with the multiple deadlocks, that I might be sympathetic to you. In other words, I was thinking about what Mr Muzalas might now answer when the evidence is too hard and extremely difficult to answer. Today, I feel the problem even more serious because I am not surprised by the sincerity you have developed to me, but I am impressed when you say - and I repeat in a climate of sincerity and you do well - that there is water in the groove, but I am afraid that if it rains, the water can be kept in the groove. Or, if more than 500 flows are increased, as you said before, we may not be able to control them any more than we can today. If that is the case, then, it is my mood or the ability, if you like, to go back to secondary and with the elements that you know about them - and what is needed - to ask you what you are doing in alpha or beta. Let's hope that things will get better. I would just like to raise one point, because I would like an answer. In the camps, what is now acute as topics is the problems of the particular stress of the psychological situation in which people live there are, namely the exacerbation of mental illnesses and the effects of the mental disorders that exist due to living. In Lesvos, the proportion of mental health patients to be referred to a psychiatrist increased from 1/3 in late 2016 and in the first half of 2017 in almost 3/4 of the patients of "Doctors without Borders" in August 2017. I mean, if that's an objective and real element, let's leave all the rest. Tell me how your care works on this issue, because mentally pressured people who live in the camps are obviously also open to events which are extremely dangerous to themselves and to those who live around them. I told you everything else that your sincerity was disarming. That's how things are, we can't do more and I wish we didn't find ourselves in a situation that is more difficult. What can I say? I say again that we sympathize with you if you can do more than that, but especially for this matter, give me an answer how you face this psychological pressure from people, which can end up at times and in situations that will be uncontrolled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-10-S1-commons.u7	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-10-S1-commons.u8	Mr. Lykoudis, I'd like to tell you that we're going to make it anyway. What I claim and which you understand very well is that every time the flow is the one that determines what to do. And the flow is something independent of us. We are not the ones who can intervene in determining the flow. There is a Europe and Turkey agreement. We demand that both parties implement it, but you understand that it is not something that we can impose. We are in constant negotiations with the European Union on various requests to improve the terms of the Europe-Turkey Agreement. So far, we have not achieved what we are asking for. For example, we have asked for inland transport to the inland people who cause trouble on the islands, without being deducted from the agreement, so that they do not stay here. We haven't succeeded. We're in a continuous negotiation. You are experienced and are aware of the difficulties of negotiations, especially with the European Union. I wanted to tell you that these measures will be taken, they will cure the situation, but it makes sense in a new doubling to have new measures, as in a new doubling after that, we will have new measures. Moria was for a thousand people. We got her to be in very good conditions for two thousand, two hundred and two hundred. Up to three thousand people were tolerated. From August 20, and then five thousand and five thousand people arrived. Conditions cannot be good and cannot be made every time, such as Moria now for five and a half thousand. What if seven thousand come? We should fix it for seven thousand. You understand that all of this takes time, requires different negotiations and possibly different policies if the problem grows. I wanted to tell you about the 'Doctors without Frontiers' report, but also, in general, about various medical reports coming out. Since I am a doctor, and you are, Mr President, a doctor, I would like to say that no one disputes that immigrants, refugees, through the roads they went through to get here, have problems. I mean, waiting for you to be a migrant for leaving Afghanistan or Syria in the war and coming to Greece through smugglers and you're not nervous, it would be stupid. But I would like to inform the House that there is a gap in all these communications. There are no papers. We in medicine, when someone comes out and says that for ten thousand heart diseases, since the President is here, this medicine has ten thousand papers. We don't have anything. I have set up a scientific team to study this issue or another communication that one out of two has raped or another announcement that pregnant women do not give birth to our hospitals. We have formally called for as a state to give us the papers, the papers, on which these conclusions are based, as would be the case in any scientific research. There's no such thing as us. They haven't given it to us. Therefore, it is very reasonable that there are psychological problems, but I refuse - until it is proved - the validity of these forecasts, these announcements, because we have not been given the accompanying documents to be given to any medical work. I imagine that for those of you who are legal here, that also in legal work is done, but to us, in medicine, it makes no sense, if there are no data, the papers accompanying this conclusion. I will give you the documents, which say step by step, what we are going to do with the overthrow, and I think we will succeed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-10-S1-commons.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, we have not applied the relevant Rule of the Rules of Procedure which provides when there is a common issue of two honourable Members how we will deal with it because of Mr Varvitsiotis' justified delay. That is why the second question will normally be answered as if it were a different matter. The third item with number 167/30-10-2017 will now be discussed in the second question of the new Republic of Athens MEP Miltiadis Varvitsiotis to the Minister for Migration Policy, on the subject: "The preparation of hospitality structures for the winter season is inconvenience". Mr. Varvichiotis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-10-S1-commons.u10	Mr President, we are talking about human rights because the right to decent living in accommodation and reception is a human right. And yesterday we had a debate in this Chamber on human rights, and for the first time I saw in this Chamber that such gross lies were used. And I saw an unjustified impossibility of the government at that time and an unexplained reluctance to express its opposition to the release of Koufantina and, at the same time, to condemn both his actions and his past. But at night, I realized why. Because she would eventually condemn her own children, as we saw them last night in the shocking hosting scenes of the "river" Koufontina outside the prisons. Not the ideological kids. The real kids of the government. And I heard and read that the other transparent defender of human rights, the SYRIZA official, the head of the human rights office, Mr Lambrou, has already written an article why we must defend this unacceptable law of Friday. I have not, however, heard Mr Lambrou - as I have not heard anyone - talk about the terrible conditions which prevail in the Eastern Aegean and in its islands, Minister. Minister, the preparation of the winter structures is something you should have done. And last year you should have done it. Last year you were epic when the winter came and said, "We had not predicted that the tents of heating bodies." This year's situation is much worse and you can't blame local communities like you did last year - 'the mayor hotels don't give us people', 'the local communities don't cooperate' - because you promised the local communities last September that measures of decongestion, of which you have not implemented one. And you come to the committee yesterday and say, "Instead of decongestion, I will increase the capacity of the structures, so that I can meet the needs", but you will not implement an agreement on which you are entangled in all these people on the islands. And why don't you do it? Quite simply why ideological SYRIZA, the so-called human rights defenders, does not leave you, your former Secretary-General writing articles in "Guardian" against your candidacy for a human rights commissioner. It is the people who say that we should not return to Turkey those who have to return on the basis of the joint declaration of Europe - Turkey. You have created such a complex and time-consuming mechanism for examining asylum applications, so you are actually entangled in thousands of people on the islands. Minister, last year you told us that the winter coming, that the dead in Moria and Samos, the terrible conditions throughout Greece made you wiser. I really hope from your answer that they did make you wiser and that we are better prepared this year. I hope that last year's statements will have no effect and finally show that you have become, instead of being wiser, more unconscious. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-10-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-10-S1-commons.u12	Mr. Varvichiotis, I try to be mild every time, speak the language of truth. You are not helping this because speaking of the human rights of migrants and refugees with a history of decades behind you - I am not referring to you in particular - would be merrotragic if it were not inappropriate. Human rights of immigrants and refugees: Have you ever united anyone? Did you ever treat anyone? We found them in Victoria Square. In Igoumenitsa on the trees we found them. In Patras in the buildings, in the old factories, we found them. What did you do so you could ask and move your hand? Can I tell you something else? You don't have a pin on it. You spoke for three minutes. One minute and forty seconds you talked about Kufontina. You don't give a damn! You don't give a damn about an effort we have to make as a nation. You're disarming. It's your golden opportunity. But it's not. There's a responsibility here, Mr. Varvichiotis. There is a responsibility to which we must all respond. We need the Europe-Turkey agreement. We're in favour of returns and fighting. Obviously, there are other points of view. And there are other points of view to you. There's more in here. Instead of standing at what we can agree on to move things forward faster, you once again move the finger. And you move it in a way that doesn't help anything. I don't know if it helps you, not personally, I mean what you represent here. We should have done it. By August 20th, things were like this, things were sorted out. Suddenly, flows have increased and since 20 August we are trying to cope with this situation. And I think we can handle it. You're saying we're not transporting. We've carried thousands of people. Mayors know that too. They have exceeded the seven, eight thousand people we have taken from the islands on the basis of the Europe-Turkey agreement, which you should once say to us regionally - because your President has expressed himself in favour of this agreement - what you believe. Is it? Isn't it? Do we want her? We don't want her? Are we trying to implement it? Aren't we trying to implement it? Are we dreaming of a new 2015? You're talking about legislative measures. As everything was different from the legislative measures that you had and which you had. Because we ran you guys to change. You remember these famous secondary committees where they were only lawyers and there were no judges inside, unlike all over Europe. There was an excuse. I understand that thing. It wasn't the situation like that. The new situations also want new legislative measures. We don't have to yell. You do not have to prove that you are more transparent defender of human rights than I am. It doesn't bother me to be. It bothers me to pretend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-10-S1-commons.u13	Please, Mr Varvitsiotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-10-S1-commons.u14	Mr President, I would like to say that the Minister may say that I do not give a damn, but the Minister accepts too many dozens from the European Union. You are the Minister, who has the greatest international support and international funding, who has not had any of your predecessors who have dealt with the matter. Nobody! And despite the great funding you have, you have not given a single answer about how prepared you are for the coming of winter on the Aegean islands, what I asked you about, that is, if you have done the elementary preparation. The images I've seen in Samos are not prepared images, Mr. President. And if at one time with national resources, the country was trying to deal with the issue - because that was the reality - you were the ones who were on the way to stone and the Moria and Amydaleza, you were also rocking the pre-extraction centers, what you say you're going to do, but you don't make them. And you don't make it because SYRIZA won't let you. Say that SYRIZA won't let you build pre-regulatory centers to send back people. The deal isn't working. This is the case with the Europe-Turkey Agreement. It's not a bad deal. It is a good deal and we support it. The question is whether you are applying it and whether you really can use it. With two thousand six hundred returns to Turkey, it means that you are not doing your job properly and you are not sending back everyone you need to send. That's the reality. And with their long stay in camps, uncertainties, in the Aegean islands, but also in the other hosting centres in the country, what is being created? What Mr. Lykoudi was saying a little while ago. There are problems of a psychological nature for people trapped, without hope, without a clear prospect for their lives. Is that a decent living? In fact, I want you to tell me what action you have taken since the 20th of August that the flows have increased to deal with the winter coming. I want you to tell me, we did one, two, three, four things, so much we did, so much we thought. But you did not answer that. And if you tell me that you are not handling the money, then I will tell you once again that it is useless for the Ministry that you have built, if the government has all this international funding and cannot use it. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-10-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, too. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-10-S1-commons.u16	Mr. Varvitsiotis, every time you use the economics issue. We have repeatedly said that the money you are talking about is money for which the Greek state, based on the European Union's legal framework, has no control. It is the money that the European Union, through 'DGECO', has given the NGOs. The rest of the money, which the state received through AMIF and the other fund, is completely audited. Contrary to what you say, because of the effort and good and rapid management by Mr Haritsis - which I have the pleasure of being next to me here - we have the highest absorption rate in Europe. We have a rate of absorption of 30%. From that point on, you've run that kind of money, you know the bureaucratic difficulties and all that. But let's go to what we're doing. We're trying too hard and we're not making the dude. We're not saying we're the boulders that we're gonna do, and all the conditions will be fixed. We've been working in the center since July. The Army's doing work. We've sent new doctors. We sent telemedicine cabins so they could be examined by non-existent specialities. We increase asylum and appeals. You didn't hear before. It's an international problem. At the moment, asylum and appeals are at risk in Germany, which is a country in which they have forty years of operation, because of the burden of work that exists. They can't be easily done. You will agree with me that the legislative framework must be adapted each time to the new conditions. So I don't see why we have to fight about it. It's not worth it. We will therefore agree that the legislative framework that existed, as it proved to be inadequate. And we need these shortcomings to see how we can correct them within international law and the Convention on Human Rights. I do not see why we should oppose this. I want you to sit with us and see it, sit and watch this thing. And that's where things will prove to be. Therefore, you should welcome, instead of slandering, the effort we make to bring things to the new conditions that are not dependent on us at all. I'll give you a piece of paper too, because it's too much. I can, if you give me time, let me read them to you. But it takes seven minutes to read to you the concrete actions taken on the islands. But I am telling you, with great openness, that the specific actions we take on the islands will be able to cover the current situation. If the flow rises suddenly, after we have finished these projects, you will still ask me a question and you will ask what happens on the islands and I will tell you the same things. It's not the migratory and refugee place we'll fight for. There are other places. We need to work together here to deal with a situation. Where to work? In this minimum, we can confuse, because it is clear that we are divided into a chaos in our opinions. But there is also a national minimum, there is a field on which we can confuse ourselves. Let's confuse, brother, let's end this story! The other way to fight. And I'm telling you, he's not Koufantinas today. It was immigration. Halfway through your speech, you dealt with Kufontina. Can I tell you something? And you personally don't deserve that. You deserve better than that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-10-S1-commons.u17	Mr Minister, since we found you an opportunity, I had asked a similar question myself. Unfortunately, I have the privilege of not being a Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Independence, but all of the Aegean because there is no other Member of this House in this region. I am therefore under pressure from all over the Aegean. I must say that, in my opinion, not only you but also the Minister of Foreign Affairs must raise this issue in the European Union, because Turkey is pushing and pressing on the European Union. We, that is, the border regions, accept the benefits of this pressure. It is clear that when the flows are zeroed, and suddenly they are growing, it is a matter of political pressure. Therefore, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs must bring the matter to the international level and say what is going on from the European Union's point of view. In other words, Europe's relations with Turkey are neither a Greek issue nor an easy one to resolve. But we accept all this weight, and you personally are afflicted by the questions we ask every day. It's a big deal. You need to see it differently, not you, the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-10-S1-commons.u18	Mr President, I would like to assure you that the Prime Minister, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Minister of European Affairs, the Minister of Civil Protection, I, the Minister of National Defence, have a constant negotiation in Europe on these issues that you mentioned. You've been through government positions and you know that many times you can make the negotiation, but it doesn't work or it takes time, etc. But I would like to assure you - because it also burns me personally - that the entire government is involved in demanding and resolving these issues, sometimes with little success at times without them. But the effort is made and is strictly identified and persistent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-10-S1-commons.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Standing Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs and the Standing Committee on Morphic Affairs present their report to the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: "Greek Institute of Byzantine and Post-Byzantine Studies". The Member of the New Democracy Mr Christos Stakaras is requested a residence permit for a short-day absence abroad in Cyprus on 13 and 14 November 2017. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-10-S1-commons.u20	The House therefore approved the requested permission. The Secretary-General of the Government, Mr Kalogerou, knows what questions they will not answer. The first question under number 242-16-11-2017, the second question of the Member of Parliament, Evros, New Democracy, Anastasios State, to the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, on the subject: “The new maritime Egnatia”, will not be discussed due to the unsettled obligations of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy. The first question under number 241/6-11-2017, the first question of the first cycle of Athens, New Democracy, Anna - Michel Asmakopoulou, to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the subject: "Prevention measures and the fight against cyber attacks", will not be discussed due to the presence of Minister Papa at the fourth pan-Hellenic conference on the development of Greek agriculture in Thessaloniki. Ladies and gentlemen, before we proceed to the debate on the next topical and urgent question, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent debate on Monday, 13 November 2017. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 248/7-11-2017 topical question by MP Xanthi of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Gregorios Stojannidis to the Minister of Finance, on "Following the licensed number of jobs in casinos". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 243/6-11-2017 of the Member of Parliament, Mr Athanasios Davakis, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: ‘Second student housing allowance application cycle’. 3. The Question No 212/1-11-2017 by the Vice-President of the Parliament and Deputy Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Finance, on "The financial losses from the night end". 4. The 245/6-11-2017 topical question by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Helen Zaroulia to the Minister of Finance, on "The economic cost of the attacks by para-state elements". 5. The 252-7-11-2017 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, about the building problem of PAAL Sitia's engineering laboratories. 6. The Question No 217/6-11-2017 by H' Vice President of Parliament and Member of Parliament II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance about the "Publication of Aki Tsohatzopoulos". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question raised by Mr Anastasios Megamomoustakas at the Minister of Education, Research and Religion, on "They are looking for... musicians at the Serre Music School. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 244/6-11-2017 topical question by MP Kilkis of the New Democracy Mr Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgiodas to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the topic "Urgent need to restore the buildings of the 2nd PAL Kilkis". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject of “Object of measures in favour of the small savers, who lost their money with the debt cut in 2012”. 3. The Question No 215/3-11-2017 by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Finance, on “Difficult developments regarding the sale of the EUMGA “The National”. 4. The 191/30-10-2017 timely question by MP Heraklion of the New Democracy, Eleftherios Aegenaki to the Minister of Health, on “Evil”, the clearing of EEAH’s dues. 5. The question by No. 101/17-10-2017 of the Greek People's Association - Golden Dawn, Ilias Panagiotarou, to the Minister of Health, on 'Ragda increase in measles cases in the country'. 6. Question No 143/24-10-2017 by Independent MEP Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on ‘The laws do not apply to judges? Do they have their own laws?’ REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question and application under number 164/21/5-10-2017 by the Member of Parliament of the Republic of New Democracy, Athanasios Davakis to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: ‘MOMKA 2017 Unit of Studies and Construction’. We are returning to the debate on the topical and urgent questions of today's sitting. The first report under number 36/2-10-2017 will be discussed - question by the Independent MEP, Mr Georgios-Dimitrios Karras, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the need to introduce a modern integrated legislative framework for prevention measures to avoid the occurrence of forest fires. Mr. Carras, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-10-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. It is assumed that the Mediterranean region each summer suffers from forest fires. Greece's problem is corresponding. Based on statistics every year, some 400,000 acres of arable land are destroyed, which means that they must be restored. Rehabilitation is another part, not the subject of my question. However, the fires will also remove resources from the economy, because the change in the use of these lands presupposes that they should be replaced for the ecological balance from other areas that do not exist. I asked a series of questions just after the major fires occurred in Greece in August 2017 and especially for our islands, where there seems to have been the biggest problem, as for Attica, where the fires were long-lasting. They weren't easy to take down. Mr President, the issue that has been raised by me was whether there are any fire prevention measures, so that they do not occur to the extent to which we are faced every year. One cannot question the self-sacrificing of fire extinguishers, all the local players in local government to suppress them. However, suppression is a repressive measure and we must look for those preventive measures that avoid the occurrence of fires. So the question arises: in the past century - and I refer to the twentieth - there was self-protection of forests. How was self-protected? The experts know that. Pine forests were protected by the presence of people living in there. Also, with the burner, the furnaces. There was life in the forests and there was no time for the fire to manifest itself, because they were cleaned and people themselves were interested in protecting them. We therefore have an obsolete legislative regime of the 1969 Forest Code, which the Minister knows is a repetition of old times. We have Law 998, where prevention by this law, and in particular by the economic crisis, has been effectively abandoned, Mr President, and we remain on this issue: we are celebrating the suppression of fire and we are silent about its prevention. My question, then, is - and I shall say in my denunciation the rest - that: does the government intend to modernise this framework? I will make a comment here, which you will allow me to do. Civil protection, as it stands, is concerned with the aftermath of the fire and has not prevented it. From the answers to the series of questions I have tabled, everyone tells me that it is the Ministry of Environment and Energy, the Directorate-General for Development and Forest Protection. So I ask my questions: What legislative measures, especially in the field of prevention, will you take so that we can protect the least forest wealth left by the phenomena of this year and previous summers? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-10-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, too. Please, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-10-S1-commons.u23	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Karras has raised issues relating to the whole of forestry policy. It's a question of preventing forest fires. It gets into the essence of forestry policy and maybe it takes more time. I'll try in time I have to answer. I am pleased to discuss these issues because you have contributed in particular to the debate we had on forest maps here in plenary. However, I have to tell you that a debate that is taking place on forest areas must take into account, firstly, the fact that either because of climate change or because of natural growth of forest ecosystems, especially in the Mediterranean area, some fires are a process of natural renewal of forest ecosystems. What we are interested in is that there should not be large fires, that is to say, there should be no more fires in areas that have already begun the regeneration of the forest ecosystem, because then any natural regeneration process is interrupted. Even in the fire of Kalamas, in Kapandriti, that is, a very large piece will have natural regeneration. We are interested in not repeating the fire over a short period of ten, fifteen years. On the other hand, when one raises an issue about the introduction of a modern integrated framework for the prevention of agricultural fires, as you put it, I would like us to see what the deficits of the existing one are or whether we can hear a proposal from a different strategy. Otherwise I do not have the opportunity to table a timetable, as you request, for your own proposal. We will tell you what we are doing and if in the second cycle we have more to talk about, I will also give a timetable for updating it, because I have issues to say on the strategy. However, if the issue is the existing institutional framework, I would like to say first of all that the existing institutional framework for prevention is not fully exploited, either because there are no human resources available or because there are no funds available or because there are no funds available or because there are no funds available. For example, the serious reduction in human resources in the public sector which the previous governments have attempted and the serious deficit created with the uncertainties of contracts for conventional fire extinguishers is a very big issue that is not due to us, but is a heritage, as is the very long delay in supplying airborne instruments that we have been concerned with this year. However, I think that if we use the existing knowledge to the fullest extent, we will be able to see the following: from this year's fires 32.11% due to negligence and 50.49% in intention. So 82.6% is from a human factor and it is not from a natural phenomenon, which could - if you like - suspend, beyond policing measures, which I agree is a prevention process, but is not what we mean in the natural environment. On the other hand, I have to tell you that responsibility has already been attached to two hundred ten people for this year's arson by negligence and to thirty-two people for intent arson. So, you see that, as far as malicious human function is concerned, there are already the necessary provisions on our part. But I would like to say that prevention is the responsibility of the Forest Services of the Decentralised Administrations, and that is why the technical specifications have been updated in April 2015 to prevent from our own government. We have no problem working together. It suggests, somewhere in the questions, a breakdown of the administrative area. I can assure you that, because of the forest maps, all the Decentralised Administrations and Forestry Services are at the disposal of the Ministry of the Environment and we have very good cooperation with permanent - if you like - with cooperation councils. I'm going to tell you a few things we've already done to prevent. The decisions of EUR 4.5 million on overtime for the officials of the Forest Services and the staff of the Directorate-General were signed in good time on 27-24-2017. On 3-1-2017, two and a half months after I had taken over, EUR 1.4 million from the Green Fund for the Special Prevention Programme for Lathromium, so for the presence of a forest official - what we want to have - all year round in the woods. On 9-5-2017, EUR 1.62 million for an Anti-nuclear Protection Programme for the Vacuum of the Forest Road, executed again by us. Also, EUR 2.2 million - importantly, you said - to strengthen resin growers for this year's period in order to be in the mountains, to be in the woods and to clean up. EUR 59 million for the prevention of forest damage due to fires, declared in the new Rural Development Programme in 2017, which, of course, concerns the prevention of next year. For this year, we had anti-nuclear protection projects of 10.5m euros from the Rural Development Programme and for forest road projects of 4,82m euros. There is also a budget of EUR 2 million from the Ministry of Economy and Development - I have alongside me the Minister responsible - for the forest sector from the Public Investment Programme and we also have the allocation of EUR 17 million for the CFP municipalities to cover protection measures. Now, I will agree that all these resources I have just mentioned want a process of accountability and control. In other words, money is being given to self-government for forest road cleaning, water supply and water supply projects. We need to find a system to check that all of this was executed, because it turned out this year's period that it wasn't all in the field as it should be. It may not be the responsibility of the Ottawas, but we have to find - with the existing framework - the diagrams - that close the procedures. Also, I have to tell you that we are implementing a very good programme with the Forest Management and Television Laboratory. We have a national forest fire observatory. I'll tell you practically. The next day of the fire we know what its limits are, but also on the last day of the fire - hypothetical - we know the fuel available, because we need to know where the fuel is being accumulated so that we can intervene. But I will close this and I have some issues to tell you, too, about the strategic issues that you have indirectly opened and about forest management then. I do not share your concern about this year's period, although even a fire is something we need to discuss. In other words, this year we had a fall in the burnt areas of 40.7%, and at the same time we had a reduction in the effects of the fires and major fires. For example, in five cases, the burnt area was more than five thousand acres, and eighteen were fires with an area of more than one thousand. So there's a lot of incidents. It's the human factor, it's negligence, it's the incomplete means of protection. We have published three brochures on housing in the woods, on the beekeeper and on the agricultural area. However, it seems that we need education and training and monitoring perhaps. There are issues of available staff, of course, and the recruitment rule. But we need to talk about it here, at least, so that we know about it after the program. In any case, in a year's time, we will be talking outside the programme, and we can design these, because we have a matter of monitoring and policing, if anyone can say so. However, we do not have an issue of ecological damage greater than the previous years. Decrease, if you like, the ecological negative print. In any case, however, I would like to say with you that in my next answer I will talk about strategic issues which, as I understand it, are of interest to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-10-S1-commons.u24	Thank you. Please, Mr Carras, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-10-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I thank the Minister for the information he brings us to know what is happening and how the problem is dealt with. Of course, most of what he said about after the fire.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-10-S1-commons.u26	Prevention is about.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-10-S1-commons.u27	Some were after. I'll see you later. The after-fires concern, such as central resources, which are transported to the local government. I, Mr President, have seen that important central resources have been made available for fire-pre-fires. If I'm wrong, you can fix me. A second big issue, which concerns me in the field of fire prevention, is the shortcomings of the existing legislative prevention regime, which the Minister expects to hear from me, and is as follows: It is multi-currency, Mr President - coordination needs to be addressed. The fact that a circular comes out every time in March from Civil Protection at least doesn't cover me. Why am I talking about division of responsibilities? We have civil protection on the one hand, which belongs to the Ministry of the Interior through the Deputy Minister of Public Order, and on the other hand we have the Forest Service, which, through decentralised administrations, has the protection of forests. Therefore, when one service fails - and I have data here - and in particular civil protection through the municipalities, it loads them to forests that they should have prevented the fire. These are facts. A second issue, which concerns me, Mr President, is: what could have been the newest legislative regime, the one to deal with prevention? It's not just resources. It is a matter of volunteering and other issues, but on which, and here there is no coordination, who will activate these people. Why am I saying that? This is not the question of supervising the forests the two, three, five days, those we have increased the risk of fire, only with guards. The question is that we have cleaned the forest, that we have removed the fuel, that the fire is not triggered by itself, because it finally detonates itself. People in the woods, like the resin collectors you have said, must be few now, because we also have a controversial property regime. A minimum of parentheses will allow me, Minister. We also have a question of questionable property regime in Greece. I have heard evidence that a large number of fires are intent, which also triggers the start of a fire. In what sense? When it is private forest land, which today does not generate income to the forester - and there it is a bigger issue that concerns me - forest owners do not expect income. So there is no systematic scratch in private forests, there is absolutely nothing to offer it, it is charged with taxation and it does not care. Potentially, it can serve and be destroyed. I'm not sure about that. That's what Law 998 talks about. Here's a legislative issue, Minister. It says 998, as well as all the answers I have, that it is the responsibility of foresters to clean up, to take preventive measures. No one gets them. We had fires in Zakynthos this year, in Kythera, in Mani, where the property regime refers to private forest areas governed by Article 62 of Law 998. So there is a need for legislative intervention, Minister. I'm not going to propose to you. You have the services. How will these areas be protected? Because they are deliberately allowed to be destroyed. I'll say it. In order not to get far, Mr President, I should like to summarize the following. I repeat that everything I have, they all say "to the Ministry of the Environment and Energy to find a solution". So I addressed today. Finally, I would like to say that the way in which it is coordinated is to find a way of coordinating. Political interests and I shall say that, Mr President, between local and central government are different. Maybe I shouldn't say it. Someone in local government wants to prove he contributed to the fire suppression and will give him points. For the prevention that is silent and does not sound very indifferent, because we will not be heard, we will not work. I don't have time to develop more. So I think that, with these few thoughts, a common basis needs to be found. To come over to the Ministry to solve them for this reason. The ecological footprint, Minister, is cumulative. This year in the accounts, the land that has been burned may be those that have to be renewed and must be restored by natural regeneration, at least those that have not been burnt in the past on several occasions, but the total ecological footprint is large. Rehabilitation, physical regeneration will take thirty to forty years at least. Let's not hand this problem over to the next generations. Let's face it from today.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-10-S1-commons.u28	Thank you. Mr Minister, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-10-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. I would obviously not hide behind the possibility of natural regeneration without prioritising prevention. You understand that. I just raised a scientific issue in the debate to ensure that our debate is complete. I shall begin with what Mr Karras said at the end of the day. Political and strategic forest management is the solution for prevention. We agree that the use of forests is better prevention and human presence and function within the forest is both cleansing and immediate intervention. That is why it is worth saying a few issues about our forest strategy. The first issue is the suspension and ratification of forest maps. It might seem strange to you. And yet forest maps are a decisive measure to prevent forest fires because they will enter a class of uses and clear up use issues because many fires - at least it sounds - are created to challenge forest use in an area. Secondly, we are going to seek to resolve the spatial planning of forest maps and to help relieve the pressure on forest ecosystems from various deliberate acts of containment. Our aim is also to see together, Mr Carras, the matter of forested fields. The abandonment of many fields has created fuel and created an issue. Ultimately the constitutional protection of the later use of forest has created greater risks of fire. In addition, we consider it to be the adoption of a ministerial decision on the management plans for grazing. Because grazing, when applied rationally, is an ally to prevention. The shepherd, too, would say, is an ally in the prevention of forest fire. The preparation of the grazing management plans will appropriately allocate the Lithuanian units by satisfying farmers who will not be in charge of forest land, but also by protecting neighbouring forest areas and by renewing them on the basis of the livad rules. I also think that what we need to discuss again in Greece is the new standards for forest management studies. Let me just tell you. Forests can produce 1% of GDP. Today they don't produce it. We don't have management studies on the country's forests. We have no strategy to produce a primary product from forests, so that there is no job, that there is no human being, but that there is no prevention. Because all this is solved by the management studies and the production, if you like, of a primary product from our forests. Of course, this must also be said to be done with some pilot projects. We will not expect the new standards to begin in all the forests to plan for economic production and management. We already have some plans that will begin. Let me give you an example. We want with a pilot after the recent disasters to have a rapid management study and presence of man in the forest ecosystems of Samothrace. At the same time, of course, we also need to discuss other issues, but you will allow me to say first of all that you leave a suspicion of firefighting officials in your question, for a phrase that has been said about misguided statements about staff. I am therefore going to read you a statement which was recently announced: 'First of all, we should show what is not in figures, and that is all the more than the sacrifice shown by those who were on the front line or those who were on the back and who were fighting and starving. And I saw them firsthand having all this weight and pressure to deal with the fire to prevent any man from burning, burning a village, not burning a house, to preserve the natural wealth of the country. So to all these people, who gave the battle for the protection of the property and the lives of the citizens, really deserve congratulations." This is the statement made by the Minister, Mr Toska, on the day we took stock of forest fires in 'TITANIA' a few days ago and I think it is worth the government's attention to tabling our views, because I do not want to let anything hover and it must all be clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-10-S1-commons.u30	I was referring to the previous one, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-10-S1-commons.u31	But I would also like to say something about a comment you made on a ministerial decision. You called it "bottom-up" or something like that. And yet, Mr. Carras. There is no and there has been no framework so far that it speeds up and asks for a statement from forest services after fire. I did make this ministerial decision at the end of August, so that we have the first circular to set shorter time than the legislation to draw up anti-nuclear, anti-corrosion and reafforestation studies, so that in Kalamato we have in one month the Public Reforestation Agency studies of EUR 4 million prepared, considered by the Ministry of Economy to have for the first time also, within one month of the fire, 4 million resources available and already work in East Attica which has never been done. It was with this circular, which calls for every 15 days an account and this circular, too, you know that, before the year ends, we will have a declaration of resurrected people in Zakynthos, where the property was questioned and discussed. We therefore want to prove that we are much more adequate and much shorter and much more effective and that is done in practice and I claim, if you like, the effectiveness of this circular. He doesn't have a pompous feature. He has accelerated works and I must tell you that since the rehab of the burnt areas we have ensured that we have another measure of EUR 101.7 million, which I did not mention in the first answer, because they are after the fire. What I mentioned in my first answer is prevention, and what I have just said is after the fire. I understand we're talking about prevention. I'm not happy about what happened next. However, it was done better than ever and with immediate disposal of resources and with projects carried out and - I repeat - by civil servants. Because that too is very questionable. In conclusion, however, I will say something about what you have put to fragmentation and civil protection. My personal assessment of the coordination of civil protection, which had to operate at the time of the fire - is not prevention, however - results in more steps being taken. They were co-ordinators to which the forestry services were not invited. There were coordinators that were not convened at all by the fire coordinator or co-ordinators that gathered once and kept no record. The Civil Protection Act has other obligations and we have already spoken with Mr Toska to provide for next year. In any case, however, they evaluate the operational fire and fire-fighting plan. We are talking today about prevention, which is the responsibility of our Ministry and the Directorate-General, which has available resources, which, if you want, we must complete, obviously by making use of the proposal that you have just made on the issue of cleaning up and preventing disputed or private property, because it is not certain exactly what the institutional framework is. That is why I thank you for making us all even more effective. Thank you very much. Good morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-10-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, too. We move on to the second debate under number 214/3-11-2017 on the second time question by the Independent MEP II of Athens Mr. Theocharis (Charis) Theocharis to the Minister of Economy and Development on the subject: "It is not possible to absorb European funds of EUR 1 billion for the management of the refugee". The Deputy Minister of Economy and Development will answer Mr. Haritsis. Please, Mr Theochari, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-10-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, recently the Vice-President of the Commission, Mr Timermans, with his interview at 'Kathimerini', said - and amazed indeed - that our country does not absorb about EUR 1 billion to improve the living conditions of about sixty thousand refugees currently in our country. I think that the gaps in the state mechanism are fully reflected in the inhumane conditions, which were even a few days ago in a publication by the GUARDIAN on the conditions in Samos. In order to address the short-term and medium-term needs of refugees, it is estimated that there are a number of funds available from the European Union's unexploited funds available to our country. I mention the funds, because that's enough. There is the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund (FIFG), the Internal Security Fund (ISA), the External Borders Fund (ESA), the European Aid Fund for the most deprived (FEAD) and the European Union Health Programme. In addition, of course, there is funding for humanitarian aid for refugees under the emergency financial instrument. Because, well or badly, Mr. Muszalas has asked various questions, but also in various interviews, he threw the ball at you and at your Ministry, saying that you are responsible for the absorption of these funds, the management of the programmes and the possibility of our country getting these funds and, of course, to transform them into conditions that are positive, decent and human for refugees, so I will ask you three questions in relation to these funds, which are: What is the funding that our country has been receiving from 2015 until today to the improvement of infrastructure for refugees? I would also like to see in detail per fund and per region how exactly we have absorbed funds. I would also like you to tell us whether there are actions to manage the refugee issue that are at the stage of compromise. If so, at what level and from what fund are the contracts being awarded at the moment? What are the rates of absorption of the regular funds on the basis of programming, as well as the exceptional allocations from the Fund and the IFS? What are the applications so far submitted by the Ministry for financing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-10-S1-commons.u34	Thank you. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-10-S1-commons.u35	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Theocharis, first of all I would like to thank you for your question. This is not just a typical thanksgiving, but it also has essential content, because you are giving me the opportunity to clarify things on a matter that is very critical and important and, unfortunately, in recent years, things have been heard in the public debate which are inaccurate. The Ministry of Economy, Mr Theochra, has indeed taken over the management of the funds for the refugee issue - and I am referring to the funds for the two main funds, the AMIF and ISF - in April 2016. The budget then for these two funds, which was committed to Greece, amounted to EUR 454 million for the period up to 2020. In negotiation with the European Commission that followed this task, and following successive amendments to these programmes, we managed to increase this budget from EUR 454 million that I have just mentioned, to EUR 538 million. We therefore have an 18% increase from European funding to the Greek Government on the refugee issue. Not only did resources not be lost, but in the past one and a half years, the resources committed to Greece, the resources managed by the Greek Government through our Ministry, have increased to this significant percentage. In relation to the absorption of these resources - because of course the commitment of resources is very important, but the point is that we use the funding we have at our disposal, that is crucial - I must tell you that the absorption of these resources from Greece, from the AMIF and ISF funds, is currently around 30%. This figure is translated into real expenditure of EUR 147 million. This is a record rate for a Member State - a Member State of the European Union today we are talking about, as the European average is currently at 10%. To have a comparison with a country which is the second most important portal of refugees in Europe, Italy, I would like to tell you that the rate of absorption in Italy today is at 6%. But it is not just these already implemented ones. From the total budget of EUR 538 million, they have already been specified in calls, i.e. in implementation, EUR 444 million. In other words, 82.5% of the resources available to us by 2020 have already been specificised. And of these, the EUR 218 million have already been compromised and are being implemented. I repeat here, so that there are no misunderstandings, that we are not talking about annual funding. We are talking about all the resources available to the Greek Government through the Ministry of Economy by 2020. So you realise from the information I have just given you, that our country is very ahead of making use of the relevant resources and that with the skills that have already been obtained there is no risk that these funds will be lost. From there, of course, there are also emergency funding resources to Greece, resources through which infrastructure projects are being implemented, as you say in your question. So, let me say here that the Greek Government - in particular the Ministry of Infrastructure - has only received 12.7 million euros, which have been used to provide homes hosting refugees. Apart from this, however, we have proceeded with the implementation of a series of projects in the field of asylum and integration and have incurred expenditure or are in the process of carrying out expenditure of EUR 65 million from a total budget of EUR 107 million by 2020 for this axis. So there are no delays in this area either. I am tabling a table with the expenditure incurred, but also those projects which are now being implemented. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister, Alexandros Haritsis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] I'm closing this first place with a critical clarification. You are talking about 1 billion euros in the title of your question. It should be very clear that the main sources of funding are divided into two categories: those given through the AMIF and ISF funds in the Member State - and we manage them for Greece, we of the Ministry of Economy. It is the resources that I mentioned at the outset. There is also emergency funding, given to third parties, non-governmental organisations and other international organisations directly from the European Commission. The responsibility for management and the rate of resource absorption for this category, which for our country is for a funding of EUR 562 million by 2020, is burdened with the relevant services of the committee and these agencies. What we are responsible for is the resources allocated to the country through the Ministry of Economy. And I think that with the data I have just presented, it is clear that the management of these funds for refugee has increased to a very significant extent over the last year and a half. Obviously no one will claim that the problems are not yet there. The situation is difficult. That is why we need a constant effort, which I think we are doing, in cooperation with all the relevant ministries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-10-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Theochari, you have the floor again for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-10-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, first of all, I would like to thank you, because, unlike many of your colleagues, you are coming and answering the topical questions and you are not invoking a number of reasons for not being here. I also thank the evidence, although to a large extent the information you give us today, is something that is described in the communication - which I shall be tabling in the Minutes too - which you yourself have made on 2 November, immediately on the occasion of Mr Timermans' interview, who raised this issue in the current and public debate in our country. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Theocharis (Haris) Theocharis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It is clear that this is not our question - first of all, let us say this - whether or not the funds available will be lost by 2020. No one could come from 2017 to discuss whether the 2020 funds will be lost. And no euros could have been absorbed, obviously there is plenty of time to absorb the money at that time. Our question is just one: whether enough funds have been absorbed to make a difference in the field, make a difference in Lesvos, make a difference in Kos, make a difference in Samos, make a difference in each area of mainland or island Greece, in which there are hospitality structures and in which people are currently living. I do not need to tell you, I am sure you have read what this article was about Samos and how many people beg for women to become pregnant or for men to be sick so that they can get that excuse so that they can get out of there, from a hell of a hell in which they live. So there's money. Unfortunately, the situation is not positive. A few days ago the Lesvos Municipal Council adopted a decision which hits the alarm, makes symbolic and substantive decisions so that the state can finally understand that at present we have thirty thousand inhabitants on the island and eight thousand refugees and immigrants who are on the island and therefore create a suffocating pressure, because structures are not capable of covering them. And all this, when the flow has declined, from 2015 to 2017, to 97%, even though we have been seeing the increase in migratory flows lately. I am tabling the decision of the Municipal Council relating to the tragic situation that the island is experiencing. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Theocharis (Haris) Theocharis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Unfortunately, I am following an optimistic picture of the situation, and to some extent I can accept the compromises which have been made and are essential. In fact, however, Minister, you compare our country, which is the main host country, with all the other countries in Europe, which do not have the same problem. In our country, that is, not 30%, but 60% should have been, so that we can create those conditions so that we can deal with the problem. 2020 may have no problem, we may have funds that we will not be able to use, because there will be no object, if necessary. I wish the migration flows were managed by themselves, reduced and no issues. Therefore, now that our country is in red, we should now make moves. Of course, what are the pallenoids, which led to the change in April 2016, to change the responsibility of managing these funds? Did the NGOs in fact until then only testify there and, of course, the army, which built the hot spots, and therefore, there was a process of managing the problem, especially when it was too large and once the Greek Government was managed, huge problems were created and we cannot proceed? Of course I draw attention to the latest decision signed by the officials of the Ministry of Migration Policy, who are mandated to manage all these flows for the identification and reception of immigrants and describe all the problems of reception and identification centres. When they are forced to bring computers on their own, when they are forced to go to areas where there is no transport by their own means, when they bring consumables - why did you refer to the other half of a billion, which is obliged by third parties, by NGOs to manage - when contracts with doctors and doctors can provide services - and we have seen in the previous period in Kos not even one doctor, to see these people and we have such problems and deaths - how do the third parties manage, when there are no agreements and contracts with the Greek state, which they naturally have - and should have - the responsibility? It cannot be the responsibility of third parties to offer these services. I am therefore tabling a third document on this subject. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Theocharis (Haris) Theocharis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This document mentions embodiment - and every Greek citizen who is interested will have to read it - the cry of anguish for the officials of the Ministry, who are responsible and who say so. Of course, it is not your issue, but since it comes to the debate, we will of course say it: the Minister responsible, Mr Mouszalas, has not even seen these people who are responsible for managing this whole process. And they only do because they have that honor. So Mr. Muzalas doesn't see his employees. He's throwing the ball in relation to the money and saying it's your problem. I don't know, it's an internal matter. He's threatening to give up when SYRIZA himself at the last meetings judges how the refugee manages. I think there is one point: the final result, what Greek citizens are experiencing in these areas and what immigrants and refugees are experiencing, who do not live in human and decent conditions, means that we must end the blockade and go much faster. These rates that you described us should double and triple.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-10-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr. Theochari. Mr. Haritsis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-10-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, Mr Theocharis, I would like to say this because you spoke of an optimistic picture: Away from me, logical outrage of reality. I have no intention of trying to stir up a situation which, in fact, and today we are talking about, remains very difficult. And we know that very well. From there on, however, let me say, because you have asked a specific question here on specific issues relating to the funding of the refugee question, I am replying to this specific question. You have raised wider issues in your dentext, which have to do with the management of this very important problem. I think, however, that this is also the subject of another debate with other participants in it. What I'm replying to you is about the management of resources. And this is not an internal matter. It's a clear matter of competence. Management of the refugee funds is indeed a matter of the Ministry of Economy. And the work that has been done and, as illustrated in the figures, which I gave you earlier, I think shows a very significant increase in the absorption of the relevant resources. You spoke about the comparison with other countries. Obviously, our country cannot be compared with countries which, if you like, do not face the pressure of these flows and do not face the problems that we are facing. Incidentally, of course, we are here to say - and you know it very well and are now recognized internationally - that our country is being called upon to deal with this problem, which is a European problem and is not a problem for our country, on behalf of all of Europe. So, in this sense, practical solidarity by Europe is necessary, too, so that this problem can be tackled.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-10-S1-commons.u40	We agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-10-S1-commons.u41	The comparison, which I made in my philosophy only concerned Italy, which is a country, which faces a similar situation, not, of course, the scale and extent of Greece. I repeat, however - and this should be quite clear - because, unfortunately, on such a critical and sensitive issue in public debate, there is often a confrontation, which is not based on the real facts, on the real facts: there is no management of EUR 1 billion by the Greek Government. That must be quite clear. The management undertaken by the Greek Government concerns the 538 million of the two main European funds, which I mentioned. And the absorption rates in these have increased very significantly. I said before that 82.5% of the total resources available for 2020 has already been specificised. It is therefore in the process of being implemented. So there is this whole process, which you know personally from your experience that it is a process of time-consuming and bureaucratic. This procedure has already gone ahead. But beyond that, you will allow me to say that, because we understand the very serious problems facing the islands of the Eastern Aegean, which accept the refugee flows, we have also moved as the Ministry of Economy, in a number of other actions, such as establishing specific development programmes for these islands, with a budget of EUR 50 million from national funds, precisely because we understand that the needs in these areas, in these islands, are too great. We are also in regular contact with local self-government bodies, with regions and with municipalities, and I think that the effort made by the Government and the Ministry of Economy to alleviate the problems created by this issue, in relation to infrastructure, in relation to aid, with the support required for these areas specifically, is recognised by everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-10-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, too. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-10-S1-commons.u43	With the agreement of the House at 11.26p. the sitting for the next Monday, November 13, 2017, at 17.00, on the subject of this House's work: a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical and legislative debate, and b) legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
