ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-06-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: According to Parliament's 5-12-2017 authorisation, the minutes of its First Session of Tuesday 5 December 2017 concerning the vote on the entire draft law: ‘Renewing - Modification - Codification of the Special License Convention on the Exploitation of the Exclusive Right of the Greek State to access and use the nominal position of the 39th East on the track of the artificial geostatic satellites of the Earth and its related telecommunications frequencies by construction, launching, operation and commercial exploitation of a satellite system of pan- and cross-border space under the name of ELAS SAAT (HELLAS SAT) and other provisions’.]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question report on Thursday, 7 December 2017. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Under No 571/5-12-2017, a topical question by MP Athens, New Democracy, Gerasios Giakoumatos, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Procedure to address the recent natural disasters". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 521/4-12-2017 by MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The need to take measures to deal with the action of the organisation "Ruvikon"". 3. The question raised by Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "To stop terrorism and persecution of the workers in the supermarket "KARYPIDIS", ensure their right to work and pay their wages." 4. The Question No 537/4-12-2017 by Z' Vice-President of the Parliament and Mr Spyridon Lykoudi to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: 'Social and psychological support for those affected by natural disasters'. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1-H by number 572/5-12-2017 a topical question by the Deputy Serres of the New Democracy Mr. Fotinis Arabatzis to the Minister of Home Affairs, on the subject: "Restructure Police Services in the Prefecture of Serres". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question raised by Mr Andreas Loverdos, Member of the Commission, of the Republic of Athens, about 'The position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the so-called transnational agreement with Saudi Arabia', with regard to the question of 'The position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the so-called transnational agreement with Saudi Arabia', with regard to No 539/4-12-2017. 3. The Question No 565/5-12-2017 by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity concerning the workers at the 'Europe' press distribution agency. 4. The question raised by Mr Gregorios Psarianos, Member of Parliament, Mr Gregorios Psarianos, Minister for the Interior, on the subject: 'A worrying escalation of the group's action'. 5. The question raised by Mr Georgios Mavrotas at the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport on the subject: 'An Attica Anti-military Protection Work'. 6. The question asked by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: “When will the train station of PASS be transferred from the former airport of Greece, in order to proceed with the investment of the seventy-five thousand new jobs and of the 8,2 billion. EUR;’. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The Question No 566/5-12-2017 by MP Aitolokarnania of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister of Interior, concerning the lack of staff and equipment in the Amphichia Forestry. 8. The Question No 567/5-12-2017 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: “The unacceptable and unprovoked attacks by naval soldiers on Hanioti citizens on the evening of November 17, 2017.” 9. The Question No 568/5-12-2017 by the Member of Parliament of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Ioannis Giokas to the Minister of the Interior about the disasters of floods in West Attica and the necessary flood protection in Attica. 10. The question by No 487/1-12-2017 of the Independent Member of the Messinia Dimitrios Koukoutsi to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Kalamis olives are imported and baptized" as PDO Kalamata olives. 11. The Question No 465/27-11-2017 by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Helen Zaroulia to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "How far will immunity and coverage reach the co-responsibility of the criminal activities of left-wing gangs at universities?" REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Question No 415/16-10-2017 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMARK KEGEROGlou to the Minister of Administrative Reconstruction, on mobilisation of members of one-parent families in the recruitment procedures through ASP and in the notices of Law 2643/1998. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION Requests for waiver of immunity: debate and decision, in accordance with Rule 62 of the Constitution and Rule 83 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, on applications for waiver of immunity from Members of Parliament, etc. Katsiki Konstantinou, Spirtzi Christos, Lappa Spyridonos and Christododoulou Anastasias (1 case-file) and eighty-three active MPs, and in particular Mr. Kouroublis Panagiotis, Jack Theodoras, Parastatis Theodore, Bolaris Markos, Mitsotakis Kyriakou, Bakoyannis Theodoras, Athanasios Charalambous, Varvisios Miltiadis, Kefalokiannis Olga, Kasapides Georgiou, Kiilia Vasiliou, Mitaraki Panagiotis, Vultus Sophia, Georgiadis Spiridon - Adonidos, Memaraki Evangelou, Hatzidakis Konstantinos, Yakou, Karamanlis, Salmadou Marios, Karakounis Konstantinou, Konstantinou, Konstantinou, Konstantinos Konstantinou, Konstantinos Ekolou, Konstantinos Korgiouou, Korynoumou, Akouros Korikonoukonouou, Akouros Korikonouou, Akouros Korikonou Ekoutou, Akouros Korikonostou, Akouros Korikonouou, Akouros Korikonostou, Akouros Ekouros Korikonosula, Akouros, Akouros Korikonououkonououkonouou, Akouros, Akouros, Akouros Ekouros Kotoukonooukonoounis, Akouros Kotou, Akouros Kouros Kouros Kouros Kouros Kouros, Kouros Korikonooukonoounis, Kouros, Akouros Korikonoouniskouros, Akouros, Akouros Koristouros Kouros, Kouros Koristouros Korikonoou, Akouros Kokouros Koristou, Akouros Kotou, Akouros Konoou, Akouros Kostaniakonoou, Akouros Kotou, Akouros Kotou, Akouros Kotou, Akour The relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics announced its report on 1-12-2017, according to which the members of the Committee proposed by a majority that Mr Constantine Katsiki should not remove immunity. The relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics announced its report on 1-12-2017, according to which the members of the Committee proposed by a majority that Mr Christos Spirtzi should not withdraw immunity. The relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics announced its report on 1-12-2017, according to which the members of the Committee proposed by a majority that Mrs. Spyridon Lappa and Anastasia Christododoulopoulos. The relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics announced its report on 1-12-2017, according to which the members of the Committee proposed by a majority that the Members of the Committee should not waive immunity of the eighty-three current Members. Under Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure, the House does not enter the substance of the cases, but only investigates whether the act in respect of which the waiver of immunity is sought is linked to the Members' political or parliamentary activity, to prosecution or prosecution, or to clemency conceals political feasibility. In accordance with Rule 83(7) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, Parliament shall also decide on an increase in the hand or on the request of the Public Prosecutor in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 108(1)(b). The floor shall always be given, on request, to the Member to whom the request relates and to the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups or their alternates. I would remind you that, in accordance with the decision of the Conference of Presidents of 23 March 2005, we have agreed on applications for waiver of immunity that the House should decide by roll-call vote and roll-call vote. The vote, in which each colleague will list his name, his constituency and his parliamentary group, will be recorded in the respective minutes. That is how we respond to the provisions of Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure, which requires a clear vote. After the debate on the cases of today's special agenda is concluded, we shall proceed to a roll-call vote, as I have described. The first case concerns Mr Katsiki. The second case concerns Mr Spirtzi. The third case concerns Mr Lappa and Mr Christodoulopoulos. The fourth case concerns the eighty-three active Members. Is there any colleague requesting the floor under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure? Nobody. Is the second request a colleague requesting the floor under Rule 108 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure? Nobody. Is there a colleague on the third request asking for the floor under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-06-S1-commons.u2	Yes, Mr. President. I'd like the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-06-S1-commons.u3	I too, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-06-S1-commons.u4	Mr. Lappa, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-06-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, on 14-6-2017 we met as members of the Commission 'from now on'. The Commission has taken a decision concerning the'subjects' of two political persons, Mr Mitsotakis and Mr Kefaloyannis. So this decision was taken this afternoon, leaving the committee and passing through the chamber of political editors, did the authors say that 'Well, did you decide to put the cases in the file'? We have told them that it is not this decision, but that we call on the political parties to produce, that is, what they want - further evidence, to prove their claims. We wanted to restore the truth of the decision. This and nothing else! After that, Mr. Kefaliannis went to the prosecutor and filed a complaint against us. I must tell you that both the plenary and the Ethics Committee have a time-consuming - I would say - tradition, tactics and attitudes. It does not remove immunity for Members when, in accordance with Rule 60 and 61 of the Constitution, they have the opinion - which is unlimited - resulting from their parliamentary duties. I, as a member of the committee, did not say anything and came from my parliamentary status and my parliamentary duties? Of course it is. Now I want to tell you something about the substance. Confidence and secrecy of the Commission's decisions 'from where we were, as the Marios Ice and the European Court of Justice said - the lawyers know these things - it has the meaning that confidentiality and confidentiality are guaranteed and understood when what the Member, when he says, comes from the service alone. Here, Mr President, the "subject" of these two politicians was played for eight months both in the press and radio and on the sites. What have we violated the secrecy by saying something about Mr Mitsotakis' 'avoidance', for example, or Mr Kefaliannis'? The decisions that have been taken have been positive for both of us. So, firstly, secrecy was not violated because we did not reveal anything that came from the service alone as a secret and, secondly, we exercised a parliamentary duty resulting from Articles 60 and 61 of the Constitution. As long as it comes from parliamentary duties and parliamentary status. That's what we did. After all, Article 61 is very specific. No Member shall be persecuted or considered for his or her opinion and shall result from his or her parliamentary duties. If you want anything from the substance, I told the committee that there was an infinite case-law. As regards confidentiality in general - Article 252 of the Criminal Code - in order to be considered a breach of secrecy, the vote should be taken solely by the service. This is an issue that he's been playing in the media for eight months. No secrecy, no confidentiality we violated and I think we did not do much more than exercise to the minimum extent the rights deriving from the Constitution.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-06-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mrs Christodoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-06-S1-commons.u7	Colleagues and colleagues, let me tell you that I bring it very seriously that the waiver of my immunity is being discussed today. Why do I bring it hard? Firstly, because I respect ethics very carefully, so as to be an example for the other members of the Commission 'from now on'. I've never made it public, but I've never even leaked it. In fact, while the Commission's decisions are allowed to be announced, I have never been to the journalists and parliamentary authors of this House to inform them of anything. In my opinion, therefore, it is malicious that the European Parliament, Mr Kefaloyannis, should denounce me to the prosecutor that I violated the confidentiality of the meetings of the 'from the outset'. So I proceeded with a communication the day after the Commission's meeting on the subject and the media said that the two cases had been filed and a confusion was made as to what the committee's decision was. In the press release, I said: "The rules of conduct of the Committee, which I respect, as well as the majority of members, include the rule of secrecy of the procedure, since cases investigated fall within the hard core of personal secrecy. I am not engaged in leaks or on the committee's agenda on what will be discussed or - much more - by notifying the result or interpretation of the result, when the cases examined are not brought to a final judgement, as was done in yesterday's sitting with the cases mentioned. As reports were recorded in the media, which inaccurately refer to as a result of the committee's judgement, I am obliged to make public that the decision of the committee, which was taken by a large majority in both cases, is the following: "The respondents should provide additional information so that the members of the committee make a broad conviction on the substance of the case before we lead to the final judgment". This is all about informing citizens in good time. If this is the case, then, the press release is subject to and violates confidentiality, it can be judged not by a Member of Parliament who is aware of the procedure, but by a ordinary citizen. In addition, Article 3b(5) of the ‘outside’ Act of Law 3213/2003 stipulates that secrecy is about information provided by someone because of his presence in an institution. It was a Commission decision 'from now on'. Decisions are made public, much more when it is for restoring the truth. I therefore strongly protest against Mr Kefaloniann's choice to involve me in such adventures, because I think it was a product of malicious political choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-06-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, my colleague. Of the eighty three colleagues, whom are seeking to waive immunity for the last betrayal, is there anyone who wants to speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-06-S1-commons.u9	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-06-S1-commons.u10	Your case has passed - I called you before - but it's okay. You can talk now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-06-S1-commons.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, it is heavy - at least for me as I feel it and receive it - to see on the roll-call that my immunity is lifted or not - you will, of course, decide - for infidelity to the service. So I wanted to make it clear that in this unprecedented procedure for me, I find myself today in order to make known the history of my case and my position regarding this category of participation in an unpaid committee of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which was composed of nine members. It is called the Committee on the Evaluation and Certification of NGO and consists of the six members of the OHIM service - for those who do not know it is the Department of International Development of Foreign Affairs - and three members who complete all nine of them. So I was one of those members. What's this committee doing? It approves programmes submitted either by public bodies or by universities or by NGOs. In this case it concerned a project submitted by the National Technical University in collaboration with the Ministry of Education. What was it about? It was about the approval of a project, about the desalination of reef water in poor Jordanian communities. So we adopted our work and our committee - and it is very important that it should be heard - was of an opinion and not of a decisive nature. We approved the project, since the professor's suggestion at the time, Mr. Gagatsiou, from the Polytechnics, was positive. There was a positive recommendation from the Directorate responsible for HYDRA, as was the recommendation from the Pre-assessment Committee, because all three elements in the report have given us the decision to be positive, and I repeat, only in an advisory capacity. At some point the leadership of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which had the decisive authority, decided that the work had to be carried out. The project was executed and operated. Why am I quoted? I am referring here to the fact that I gave an opinion in favour of the project, but my referral consists of two criminal elements, which the public prosecutor took and composed of the indictment. The first is that the project was assigned directly, which we did not decide on. Secondly, it was the cost of the project - because it was overweight - which we did not decide on. So the prosecutors' office, all of whom were arrested, considered them involved in the case, made us an indictment, referred us to it, and so I am also in your judgment of lifting or not lifting my immunity. I have nothing more to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-06-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. To close the other issue - which is also typical - I repeat, of the eighty-three Members, who are referred to as the last treason, is there anyone who wants to speak? Nobody. Ladies and gentlemen, there will be a roll-call vote on this item. A list has been drawn up with the names of colleagues for requesting the waiver of immunity. Every colleague will vote next to the Members' names on whom the waiver of immunity is sought. Any colleague who votes in favour of the waiver of immunity takes note of his preference next to the Member's name and to the 'NAI' column, that is to say, 'NAI' to the prosecutor's request for the waiver of immunity. Any colleague who votes against the waiver of immunity takes note next to the Member's name and to the 'OHIM' column respectively. Any colleague who votes for the 'PPE' vote will take it in the corresponding column of the vote. Every Member of Parliament will be named, his constituency and the parliamentary group to which he belongs, and will sign it, because the vote is rolled out in accordance with Rule 72 of the Rules of Procedure. Subsequently, with his name on the list of colleagues, he will deliver the ballot to my fellow Members, Ioannis Sarakiotis, from SYRIZA and Apostolos Vesyropoulos from New Democracy, who will sign it and announce that the MP has voted. After the end of the vote there will be a counting of the votes by the Members I mentioned before, as will be the result of the ballots, which will be recorded together with the protocol of vote in the Minutes of today's sitting. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-06-S1-commons.u13	So the House unanimously agreed. Finally, I would like to inform you that fax (fax) colleagues have come to the Bureau, in accordance with Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, with which they give their vote. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. Parliamentarians Mr Anastasia Gara from SYRIZA and Mr Panagiotis Mitarakis from New Democracy are on the list. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-06-S1-commons.u14	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The sealed letters, which were sent to the Bureau by colleagues, in accordance with Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, will be recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-06-S1-commons.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Committee on the Rules of Procedure is tabling its report on the proposal from the President of the Greek Parliament: 'To amend the Rules of Procedure of the House - Part II'. The vote is adjourned and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and take the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-06-S1-commons.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of a roll-call vote on the request for waiver of immunity from Members of Parliament. A total of 176 Members voted. On the first case by Mr Konstantinos Katsikis: In favour of the waiver of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 27 Members voted. On the other hand, I would like to point out that the Commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that these measures are implemented in accordance with the They voted for 10 MPs. White: 2. Void: 1. The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore rejected. [[The protocol and the roll-calls of the roll-call vote shall be recorded in the Minutes and shall be as follows:]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter pages 25a and 25b]] On the second case by Mr Christos Spirtzis: In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', five Members voted. They voted for 165 MPs against the lifting of immunity. They voted for 5 MPs. Void: 1. The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore rejected. The third case of colleagues, and so on. Spyridon Lappa and Anastasia Christododoulopoulos: In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 2 Members voted. Against the abolition of immunity, i.e. 'NO', they voted 162 MPs. They voted for 11 Members. Void: 1. The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore rejected. In the case of eighty-three members of parliament in active employment: In favour of the waiver of immunity, namely 'NAH', no one voted. On the question of immunity, i.e. 'OH', 170 Members voted. They voted for 3 MPs. White: 2. Void: 1. The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-06-S1-commons.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-06-S1-commons.u18	With the consent of the House at 13.29 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday 7 December 2017 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
