ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to announce to the House the news sheet on Thursday 19 October 2017. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure). 1. The question asked by MP Chios of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Andreas Michaelides to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, dated 78/16-10-2017, on "Completion of work for the formation and fence of an expropriated area at Chios airport and extension of the Christos road". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 90-17-10-2017 topical question by MP Athens, New Democracy, Gerasios Giakoumatos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on measures for the demographic problem of the country. 3. The Question No 85/16-10-2017 by the Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese Republican Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Ministry of the Rhodes Police due to the immobilisation of the patrols". 4. The question by No 82/16-10-2017 of the Member of Parliament of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Lagossou to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "Unfavourable and undeniable statements by the President of the DEB on Greek territory". 5. The question by No 72/11-10-2017 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Christos Katsotis, to the Minister of the Interior, on "Recognizing the profession of firefighters as a heavy, unhealthy and dangerous one and taking protective measures during the incidents". 6. The Question No 73/11-10-2017 by Z' Vice President of the Parliament and Mr Spyridon Lykoudis to the Minister of Culture and Sports on the subject: "The prospect of restoring the historic building of Ernesto Tsiller and the reopening of the films "ATITICN" and "ATOLAN". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Corinth of the Radical Left Coalition Mrs Maria Theleritis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on 'Protection of workers in the LAG and respect for health and safety rules'. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under number 91/17-10-2017, a topical question by the Parliamentary Serres of New Democracy Mrs. Fotinis Arabatzis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: ‘Restoration of the income loss of Saronic fishermen’. 3. The question by No. 76/13-10-2017, dated by MP Serres of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.MAR.Michael Jeleli to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The creation of three new toll stations on the Promahona road line - Serres - the port of Thessaloniki is disastrous for the Prefecture of Serres". 4. The question by number 97/17-10-2017 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Mr Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister of Home Affairs, on the subject: "To reinstate the arbitraryly sanitary school-cleaners in the Municipality of Zitsa in Ioannina". 5. The Question by MP Heraklion of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Nikolaos Igoumenidis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the subject: "Retroactive contributions of journalists with parallel employment". 6. The Question No 81/16-10-2017 by MP Carditsa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Chrysula Katsavria - Siropoulou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on "Promoting and supporting collective production schemes". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The Question No 99/17-10-2017 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the deadlocks in the functioning of the children's stations and the thousands of children excluded from these structures. 8. The question by number 98-17-10-2017 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Mr. Ioannis Delis, to the Minister of the Interior, concerning the immediate compensation for flood damages and compensation for damages in Samothraki. 9. The Question No 84/16-10-2017 by MP Ioannina of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Meropis Jufis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "The operation of community centres". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: 'Control and protection of the structured environment and other provisions'. The speaker of SYRIZA, Mr Iglezi, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating in plenary today a bill that has gone a long way to get here. It has come after a long debate, submission and exchange of views, as well as extensive consultation. It comes to prove that the political leadership of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy is doing a very substantial job. It aims at sustainable and fair development while at the same time promoting the importance of the environment, both natural and structured, awareness-raising and responsibility for all of us. In view of the country's challenge of a crisis that has marked Greek society, the refugee to spatial planning, but also to the redesign of the processes of production and protection of the structured environment, is a distinct difference from the neoliberal policies that want investment and development with closed eyes, ignoring the coherence of the planning system and the grid of protection of the environment and of the residential areas. We need to recognise the problems of the system as it was, so that today we can formulate priorities for a new way, in a new perspective of redesigning the area for the reconstruction of the country, with an expanded involvement of citizens and social actors, in terms of efficiency and, above all, of a public nature. The Legislative initiative of the Ministry of Environment and Energy is in line with a more comprehensive strategy, which sets out the conditions for sustainable development, with transparency, with legal certainty and with common and respected rules. This is part of the previous period's legislative initiative on the process of completing the task of forest maps, which has now produced results and which at last have posted forest maps for a significant part of the territory. The definitive delimitation of the country's urban potential is the basis for regulating the space and guaranteeing the protection of the natural environment for the present and future. Subsequent to the register and its completion by 2020, the legislation on the administration and management system of the NATURA regions, the development of town planning plans by municipalities for the whole of the Greek territory, the specific spatial planning plans and regional plans. All the above are necessary tools for planning development policies, protecting the natural environment, the productive reconstruction of the country, as well as for exercising political land. This bill is therefore a product of the efforts of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy to establish a new framework of rules relating to the building with a holistic view, which, on the one hand, provides for the care, prevention and protection of the environment and, on the other hand, aims to address the causes of the unresolved and arbitrary structured environment in our country. The legislative efforts to date have focused exclusively on the management of the arbitrary and have dealt with the regulation of such a complex issue, with the criteria for the fulfilment of close and only budgetary needs, without taking into account the environmental footprint and, above all, without trying to eliminate the causes of arbitrary construction. Therefore, they did not produce the expected results. The laws of the previous governments were laws - price lists, with the scanningly expanded horizontal conditions of subordination, which the State mechanism performs the role of a collector, while waiving its constitutional obligation as a guarantor of the public interest, environmental protection and sustainable development. Colleagues and colleagues, this bill becomes a new beginning for the structured environment and we are sending out a clear message that the violations of the past will no longer have any luck. The bet to deal with an explosive reality of many generations of arbitrary constructions, in and out of the plan, in conjunction with compliance with the constitutional requirements of Article 24, is indeed difficult. However, it is clear in the bill we are debating today that the aim is to complete the country's housing stock and further environmental and urban management, so that, on the one hand, all buildings can obtain the conditions and legality requirements, on the other hand, to achieve an environmental balance and a restoring environmental burden. But this bill will be wrong if we are confined to the rules governing arbitrary matters only. This draft law provides for a substantial revision of both the mechanism and the means of monitoring and control of the quality of the structured environment and of the methods of addressing arbitrary construction. It aims at simplifying and speeding up procedures for issuing and controlling building licences. It provides for the activation of the institution of the transfer of the building coefficient to ensure public spaces and preserved buildings. It aims at the use and management of building rights for the protection of the natural and cultural environment and the public interest. New institutional tools are introduced, such as the Building Environment Observatory, which is a new administrative structure, which will deal exclusively with the control and quality of the structured environment. The Bank of Building Rights and Commonwealth Areas and the corresponding transfer of the transfer of a builder with environmental balance contribution securities shall be introduced. The Electronic Urban Identity of the Municipality is also introduced to monitor the development of urban planning, the new way of issuing urban permits, the electronic recording of arbitrary as of 28 July 2011, the separation of sanctions from the point of view of a new arbitrary and a simple urban violation. The new mechanism for monitoring, recording, controlling and taking measures to protect the structured environment provides for a significant decentralisation of responsibilities and resources towards the hereditary regional selfgovernment. It is planned to allocate 25% of fines for arbitrary construction after 2011 to the region that belong to and 25% to the OTA concerned. The remaining 50% will be assigned to the Green Fund for Environmental Balance Actions. Colleagues, when we talk about protection of the structured space, our main aim is to improve the quality of life and this is not meant to be limited to what each individual perceives as a quality of life. There is an inalienable relationship between individual and collective responsibility for environmental protection, as well as with what we call a public space, against what we call a structured environment. The burden caused to the environment by arbitrage as an individual option is not only a burden on the value of construction itself, but at the same time deprives society of a better quality of life. Societies need to emerge from fundamental values, but also practices that improve the quality of life of citizens, and I believe that this bill is doing so, and that is what actually makes it a bill to control and protect the structured environment and not another arbitrary law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, my colleague. Mrs Kafantaris, Member of the SYRIZA, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating a very important bill today, a bill which sets out the conditions for building which a favoured state must have. Since unregulated construction we have led to a structured structure, rules and designs. I would even dare say that this bill is a development bill, because the rules, structured construction, urban planning and, in general, the design of the area are a key element - an advantage for attracting investment. A country like Greece, which has developed anarchistically, without rules, without urban and spatial planning, with governments which, with their policies for years, have served small and large interests, for customer reasons, a country without Forestry, without forest maps, without National Registers, will now become a normal country. Should an investor be aware of the status he will invest in? Of course, and especially today, attracting investment is also the main issue for the real recovery of the country and for our development. The main elements of this bill are the separation of the licensing services of the Control Agency, the electronic building identity of the new buildings. The existing ones concern public buildings and meeting places, and it will gradually be extended through transfers to all buildings. The third element is that the pre-approval procedure is mandatory for buildings of more than three thousand square meters. Also, the transfer rate for public spaces, and strong counter-incentives are created for arbitrary construction, especially for the period from 28-7-2011 to today. Strong income and social criteria for fines are introduced, and generally it concerns simplification of procedures. So we plan the space so that they don't become new arbitrary. The creation of the new administrative structures and control mechanisms seeks a new approach, which aims to address the causes of arbitrary construction and to take account of the environmental footprint. We are not focusing solely on the result, in the management of arbitrary construction, we do not regulate such a complex issue on the basis of a criterion only of budgetary needs. Our aim is to record the country's housing stock fully and its further environmental and urban management. On the one hand, all buildings acquire the conditions and requirements of legality, on the other hand, an environmental balance and a restoring environmental burden will be achieved. The digital implementation of the Bank of Rights and Public Areas shall be established, with a view to the exploitation and management of building rights for the protection of the natural and cultural environment. These rights arise from the matching of transferable builder securities with an environmental balance contribution securities resulting from spatial and environmental arrangements. The aim is to achieve the creation of free public spaces, the preservation and restoration of cultural heritage buildings, the upgrading, urban and environmentally-friendly, already of burdened environment. The bill implements spatial planning measures, creates an Electronic Urban Identity of the Municipality, an electronic platform for recording and updating all information relating to the spatial and urban situation of each municipality. It is planned to accelerate spatial planning by monitoring the evolution of the associated timeliness procedures under the supervision of the observers. To close, I'll come to article 114. This article covers public buildings, justice infrastructure, public-law legal persons, private-law non-profit-making legal persons, sports facilities and others. Here we are dealing with hospitals as legal entities governed by public law. We know, I think, that the biggest consumers of energy are hospitals. With the provisions introduced in this bill - and given that the arbitrariness and arbitrary buildings in hospitals throughout the country are many - in the easy way it is imported, I return, with the bill and the legalisation of these arbitrages, hospitals will actually be able to move on to their energy upgrading and energy savings, while repeating that the largest energy consumers are hospitals, which operate on a 24-hour basis. This, of course, also concerns roofs, other institutions and others. In simple terms, then, procedures can now proceed to what I said before, their energy upgrading. In other words, we will also have a benefit and an environmental benefit, but of course also an economic benefit to the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, too. Mr Screkas, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is being discussed at a time when Greek Prime Minister Tsipras makes a planned visit to the United States of America. Listening to what has been said - because we have all witnessed yesterday the meeting between the Greek Prime Minister and the American President - there are serious questions and strong concerns whether the Greek Prime Minister can defend and defend the Greek interests, and whether the Greek Prime Minister can, in his contacts with foreign leaders, claim self-evidently for the sake of his country and the Greeks. Because we have heard Mr Trump thank the Greek Prime Minister for the expenditure that he is going to spend - it seems, after a promise by Mr Tsipras - for the modernisation of the F-16 war aircraft, which will create many jobs on the American continent, in the United States, but we have heard nothing from Mr Tsipras about what Greece will gain from this expenditure and what will ultimately gain from the meeting and visit, which had created many expectations for the Greek people. Finally, the Greek Prime Minister made a visit to the United States of America. What have we received, beyond general anointings on investment, debt settlement and confidence voting in Greece? It is therefore clear, ladies and gentlemen, that Prime Minister Tsipras, who was elected as his prime minister "take all things away", is shown to be his prime minister "give everything and free, without any objection". Of course, this meeting is then accompanied by official announcements by the Greek Statistical Office, which prove once again what? First, they disprove the success story of Mr. Tsipras and SYRIZA, which he said, that Greece has been on a road since 2015 and after normalisation, stability and development. What did the Greek Statistical Service say? The only year, over the last ten years, which the Greek economy has developed, was in 2014, at a growth rate of 0.7%, when in the end, in 2015, the Greek economy had a recession of 0.3%. And in 2016, while Mr. Tsipras said that growth started in Greece, the Greek economy unfortunately recurred by 0.2%. All of this as a result of a brutal tax, which has brought about an unnecessary primary surplus of EUR 7 billion, which has been called upon to be paid by the brutal taxpayers of Greek citizens, who are 'wrapping' under the burden of taxes and contributions. Of course, this bill comes in and deals with a serious problem, which is the settlement of the arbitrariness that has taken place for decades in terms of the structured environment in Greece, but you are not saying anything about these people who will be asked to work to settle these arbitrary ones. Those who will be invited to work are Greek engineers, Greek scientists, who today, trying to make a grand per month, to go to their family, will have to go first through the state funds and touch the 700 euros. They work for a grand and only 300 euros at home, because the rest must be put on the insurance funds and the state's tax systems. Do you think that this creates conditions for growth and prosperity for Greek workers, scientists from Greek engineers, who are, unfortunately, forced - first and foremost, young people and now more experienced - to migrate massively? Since there is no subject for mechanics anymore, it has only come to what we are discussing today: legalization of arbitrary law. Three things about this bill, ladies and gentlemen. Firstly, the Scientific Committee of the Parliament, as regards constitutionality or not Articles 64-79, has raised the alarm about the transfer of a build-up factor. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] I see you are naughty today, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. You are very concerned, because you hear things that you don't like.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u7	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u8	I would like to say, therefore, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that this bill is at the end of the day in two areas. Firstly, with regard to the issue of equality, equal treatment and fair treatment of citizens before and after this law, as the citizens who joined the previous law, in order to settle their arbitrary payments, have paid higher fines than those who will incorporate their arbitrary ones into this law. This means that here you must give a solution so that this unequal and unfair treatment of Greek citizens is not created before and after that force of the law. Secondly, I repeat about the build-up factor: I hope that this will not pass away. I repeat, the Scientific Committee strikes the alarm about the unconstitutionality of these provisions, and I would very much ask that we clarify the way in which the rate is to be transferred so that we do not risk in future deciding this provision of an anti-constitutional nature. A third issue which is extremely important is the authorisation of type 3 buildings, namely buildings under a thousand square metres of special use and under two thousand square meters of residence, in relation to the first phase, namely the approval of a topographical diagram and a cover diagram. You have accepted from the whole, I believe, of the scientific community of engineers their strong concerns about the risk of creating a new set of arbitrary ones, a new generation of arbitrary ones, as at present legislation is not codified. There are multiple decisions of the Council of State, ministerial decisions, local decrees, which define conditions of construction in various locations of the Greek territory. When not all of this is together, it is not codified, and at the moment when we are talking about the Ministry - or the services of the Ministry - can issue a circular that identifies something specific in a place that is currently going to issue a licence, how can you ask a engineer to sign it, take responsibility, for something he will not know? We appeal again to you to withdraw this provision. Leave her the way she was. Five days lasted for the adoption and adoption of terms for the construction of a topographic chart by the competent authorities to prevent a huge risk which, in future, if you leave it as it is, will be called upon by the next governments to deal with it and then the problem will be much longer - much longer than the five days that the conditions of construction will be approved by the competent Greek administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber 'EHRISTEROS VENIZELOS' and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organised and operated, thirty-one students and two sessions of the 'ERASMUS' programme. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Georgios Stylos, Member of the New Democracy, is also applied for a short-day absence abroad for personal reasons, from 19 October 2017 to 21 October 2017. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u10	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Minister Stathakis has asked for the floor. How many minutes do you want, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u11	For very few minutes, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u12	For ten minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u13	For a short time, I can barely understand exactly what the New Democracy's position is for the Prime Minister's visit and the meeting with the President of the United States.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u14	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u15	From what I understand, Mr. Screkas has caused me, and I can't react to the idea.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u16	Is that in the bill?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u17	I want to understand whether you are in favour of or against the upgrade of the F-16s, whether this is the risk and if you consider the original picture of how this upgrade will take place, the cost for the Greek side will be 1.1 billion, as the Minister of National Defence announced and the remaining 1.5 billion will take the form of compensatory benefits. So the first question I want to understand is whether you are in favour of or against upgrading and worthy of our Air Force. Unless you also think there should be major changes in the country's defence, with other planes or I don't know what else you have in mind. However, this is a crucial issue. The second issue is if you were not convinced of what Greece is winning. Let me stay in the energy sector, which is my responsibility. It was very clear that statements from both sides to upgrade the country as an energy hub. I can remind you of a lot of large investments involving American companies. I am referring to hydrocarbons, the great task of the TAP and all the other links which have been mentioned in this bilateral meeting and so on. So in the energy sector there was an explicit commitment to a significant upgrading of the country as an energy hub. And that is what I would like to know what the New Democracy disagrees with. The third part is used to it. It is the only force at the moment that calls into question the stabilisation and recovery of the economy. So since you have criticised the European Commission, the Daiselblum, to anyone who says that the economy has stabilised, turns the page and moves forward, now you must add to the long list of European officials, European institutions, Prime Ministers all over Europe and President Trump. What to do, after you avoid recognising the reality and you have this permanent momentum to look for things in 2014, the last year of the country's governance by New Democracy, we are entering a phase in which this constant revocation towards a reality that is changing suggests something that does not fall within the sciences that I own. I must admit, I have a weakness in this area. I would just like to remind you that from 2010 to 2014, which you call as the time point of view, the country's GDP has been shrinking by 25% over these four years and we have had all the result of a 25% reduction in GDP. Since 2015, GDP has not shrinked, as you know. We're in another phase. I therefore wonder about the 2014 invoking as a key point which is being abused from there and on your insistence not to recognise a reality that is now officially declared by the entire international community, with the exception of New Democracy. That's a wonder. At some point, I guess, you'll recognize reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u18	Mr President, I would like the floor on personal grounds because the Minister has made an effort to distort what I have said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u19	Mr Screka, as you know, the Rules of Procedure stipulate first to explain what the staff consists of.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u20	The Minister referred to my words, which, in my view, distorted them and I would like to explain.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u21	That's not personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u22	But under the Rules of Procedure, I am entitled to be placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u23	Let me give you a minute to clarify exactly what you said. That's what you mean.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u24	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. Minister, the maintenance of the operational capacity of the Greek Armed Forces is self-evident and of course New Democracy supports it. However, we have heard the American President thank the Greek Prime Minister for EUR 2.4 billion for modernising aircraft. We have heard him thank for the jobs that will be created in the United States of America. However, we did not hear anything from the Greek Prime Minister about what Greece took. These compensatorys you say, can you tell us what they consist of?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u25	Mr. Screka, excuse me, but this isn't personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u26	On the subject of ELSTAT's development communications, the reality is, Mr President, Minister, that in the last ten years the only year we have had growth in the country has been in 2014.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u27	Mr. Screka, excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u28	I shall conclude, Mr President, please. In 2014 we had a growth of 0.7%, when only two years ago the New Democracy had received the Greek economy in a recession of 7%. So the difference and the increase were in the order of 8% of what he received in what he delivered. You have received an economy in development, Minister, and in two years you have turned it back into a subordinate economy. Do you think this is for the benefit of Greek citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u29	The parliamentary representative may address these issues. If a dialogue starts between the Minister and any Member who raises any question, then we will leave the bill completely. The Parliamentary spokesman may be placed, but, if any Member raises the matter, and the Minister is obliged to reply to a Member on all these matters, then we will get away from the bill. So there's no personal matter, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u30	All right, I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u31	Mr. Kamatos, MP of SYRIZA, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u33	I hope, Mr Kamaterre, that you will not comment on these issues and go directly into the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u34	Yes, even though the challenge is tickling, this conversation will continue to dominate the next few days. Besides, the Prime Minister has not yet returned, and when he returns, we will discuss these. But the New Democracy still repeats things that have been proved in practice not to be the case. I shall refer to what Mr Screkas said in his speech, that an engineer who takes a grand a month is bound to bear so much. The truth is different because, up to this income and a little more, engineers have been reduced in terms of their contributions and in terms of tax rates. Of course the engineers know that's what's on the street. However, the New Democracy still insists on this. The bill, because we do not have time, Mr President. ‘Control and protection of the structured environment’. The Ministry does very well and puts this title on, even though the discussion on arbitrary issues prevails. arbitrary is a large part, a major factor in the protection of the environment. I will not repeat what many colleagues have said very well, and the Minister himself, that for environmental protection, and therefore, in order not to repeat the phenomenon of arbitrary events, we should have forest maps, we should have a register, we should have spatial plans, and urban studies should be accelerated. Of course, we heard that yesterday by Mr Maniotis, that it was all set up by them, after decades of rule. He said that at the end of 2014 they had everything ready and we didn't do it. I would like to stay, add another side and develop it a little more for a minute: the problem of urban legislation. The urban legislation in our country is very anachronistic. Technology, developments, needs go very far ahead and legislation follows. Unfortunately, he's not even watching her. A characteristic example - I told the committee too, but it is important to hear it, I think, in order to understand it - is that there was no concept of the building factor some decades ago. We were building up with cover and floor numbers. So, we have 40%, 60% coverage on three floors or ten floors. That's how the building came out. There was no creation and architectural composition. For this reason the architects were "playing" with the decorative elements in the balconies, with the bars. They couldn't do anything else. Then came the construction factor. His function has been connected to the height or height according to the coefficient. At some point, the half-outdoors came in. At some point the tumor factor came in, which was very serious. The idea is solid. But all this is very behind the needs we have today. That is why, Minister, I think we need to realize the scale of the problem. There is a swan of urban legislation, as in other areas of course, and it is very important that we cut through on this issue. You must, as soon as possible, set up a committee which will undertake the task of reforming urban legislation and integration, of course. It is no exaggeration to say that such a project is equal and it is as big a cut as it is for the 'CALICRATES' as it is for the health system, not to say as it is for the change of the constitution. I would therefore like to make this proposal and ask you to do something about urban legislation. In this sense, the monitoring and protection of the structured environment, the title of the bill, of course, does not meet the needs of the time and time. Minister, all we do is do well. They're improvements. They're stepping forward. But it does not cease to be corrections to a canvas, which we have found and to which we are working on. I must have swept through this whole system. I now come to finish on a second point relating to all this. We have also tabled a relevant amendment to construction in public areas, in particular in areas granted by public bodies and by Ottas, municipalities and regions, mainly for the use of bank seats. We know that there is a terrible problem of aesthetics and the occupation of shared spaces there. Law 4178 gave the right in two years to conduct renovation studies and force all shopkeepers to comply with any provisions of the study. I think that was very positive. It was the only case that forced the municipalities to do this job. So since we are now, and we are doing well now, transposing all the provisions of the previous arbitrary law into the new regulation with improvements, with reductions where necessary, with burdens on the new arbitrary where it needs to be, I think it would be inappropriate to leave these provisions out of the way, which are in the interests of environmental aesthetics. The question is why we should do everything now, apart from that this is a more general question, why we did not do the arbitrary things so that we can finish and end the law, there is the other argument that the earlier provision, Minister, provided for a ministerial decision that did not come out on this matter. Article 23 of Law 4178 providing for such constructions provided for a ministerial decision, which never came out. I conclude by showing you attributes how great this need is and how much back legislation is in this area too. It requires reform of the legislation, Minister, and in these structures, however simple they may seem to us. They are the so-called light constructions and screw constructions, which are allowed, he says, when we experience them and then untreated them. Thus, we observe the paradox that metal constructions, which are screwed down, have columns normally, have glasses, which are normally towed, have tents, which are towed from above normally. They're legal because they open up. Otherwise, it's - and you know - closed structures. Until they have air conditioning. I'm not saying forbid them. I say that we need to study and define what we want to adapt to new technologies and needs. And it's illegal a pergola. Don't call them pergoles. It's more pergola. We need a sketch. So it's illegal for a skeleton on an island that has four wooden columns, it has a straw above it, and the man, to keep the water from running, has also put a plywood. That's arbitrary. It's recorded as arbitrary with a fine and the previous construction I told you, it's not recorded. As long as this legislation is adapted, which is very difficult and takes time, at least we can give the scholars the opportunity. We don't have a better solution. Only scholars who can study, as best as possible and with the approval of the architectural committees, the local conditions, the needs, can provide a solution to aesthetics so as to meet the needs of local communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the Educational Programme of the "Democracy Works Council", organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, fourteen students and students and an attendant of the 9th Primary School of Alimos. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Theopevetatou Aphrodite, Member of SYRIZA, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I agree with the previous speaker that we currently have specific data on the structured environment, and many of them are irreversible. This bill is confronted with the causes that led to this explosion in many areas of environmental crime, I would say, and above all it goes against it. What were those causes? Ladies and gentlemen, we have over six hundred arbitrary settlements in Greece. Most are in Attica, fewer are in the area of Thessaloniki and others scattered throughout Greece. Didn't anyone realize that these settlements were made? I'm not talking about thousands of individual arbitrarily. There are entire settlements and there are responsibilities that have a name. The main causes, in my opinion, that led to these conditions are the major delays in the completion of the forest maps, of which of course the posts have begun, and I think that the posts and then the sanctions on forest maps will have been completed, the completion of the national register which has been debated for over twenty years, subsidised, applied and very few areas with integrated national registers, with an observation that not all of them have the geographical information required to have a simple system, but only the area and size of each parcel. Also, significant delays exist in the placement of land use and in these studies, which were made a great effort mainly by Antonis Tritsis, which imposed on very many land use sites, approval of town planning projects. At least in my own area, in Kefalonia and in Ithaca, the studies are "parked" at offices for over thirty years. All of this shows the lack of basic structures, i.e. the lack of this development foundation on which any national land policy will stand. What about this bill? The Observatory creates a tool of effective and daily control by means of science and technology. And all we have said before, all these geographical elements, that is what licences are issued, what arbitrarily declared, where they are found, any information and not only - I think that it will then be possible to identify saints and beaches, demarcate water, demarcate declared archaeological sites - is the information that every small and medium-sized investor or large investor needs, without resorting to various centres. I would therefore like to speak on this important section, which is the Observatory, the short way in which licences are issued. Of course, urban legislation needs to be worked out. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as I know, our urban legislation has reached about 100 000 pages and in Canada it is sixty pages. This bureaucracy created by legislation seems to me to be to some extent and political choice, because many times, while there is a law, slowly with ministerial decisions and interpretative circulars, weakens its role in itself. I would also like to talk about the transfer of a building coefficient and the Bank of Rights and Commonwealths, a very important tool, so as to link the heated property to the benefit. As we know, while in 1979 the transfer of a build-up coefficient for heavier property began, however, only in the 1990s, some very limited titles were issued, because the non-constitutional delimitation of a coefficient has come into effect. In my opinion, this bank is a very important tool, a key body that should coordinate these actions. I would like to give you an example. Usually in the transfer of a build-up factor the heaviest real estate in relation to the benefiting real estate produces a great deal of goodwill, i.e. usually the benefiting real estate has a multiple value. Although, on the one hand, the costs that one will likely make in a kepter who wants repairs, renovation and others, on the other hand, this goodwill may be of benefit to the owner, but on the other hand, there may also be a certain amount of income in this bank so that we can speed up the expropriations and create the public spaces we want and help downgraded urban areas. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to refer very briefly to an amendment we have tabled with our rapporteur, Mrs Karakosta. It concerns Article 6 of the No 24-4-1985 on out-of-project research. In this decree, Article 6 refers to inappropriate use of residence or mixed use of residence, that is to say to some other use. There is the condition that the buildings between them must be '2d', i.e. the maximum '5.50'. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me one more minute. I will not speak much longer, Mr President. We believe that, above all, when there are different uses, that is to say when there are houses and a rural warehouse, or a craftsmanship, or a flockhouse, which one can do, it is far too much and wrong to get a maximum distance. It must be abolished, because the distance to which it will place the buildings of each owner, on the one hand, depends on his own will - what he wants to do - on the other hand, on the geomorphology of the field, on the shape of the building, on the distances bound by the boundaries, on the cavalry, on the forest and on the other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, too. Minister, would you like to place yourself on the amendments and tell us what are you going to accept?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u38	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u39	Here, Mr Stathakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I should like to make it clear that the four ministerial amendments, the number 1269-Skourletis, Papadimitriou, Tsakalotos and others - the number 1291 - which are our Ministry for Saint Efstratios and the others - have all been accepted and incorporated. I continue with the parliamentary amendments. I shall begin with Amendment No 1260 by Mr Arvanitis, Mr Ahmet and others, which refers to extending the deadline for objecting to forest maps. It can't be accepted. The arguments were formulated yesterday by the Deputy Minister of State, Mr Famello. The initial sixty days deadline was extended five times I think and finally it lasted seven to eight and a half months. The ratification process had already proceeded at the next stage and the citizens were not required to produce all the documents by submitting the objection, but they were able to present them to the committees. So there is no question of another deadline and it is not accepted. Amendment No 1277 by Mr Kammens concerns desalination. We accept it in substance, not in formulae, as we have already made a corresponding legislative improvement, with the addition of paragraph 4 in Article 12 for desalination plants. In other words, it has been incorporated into the substance. We are typically saying 'no' to the amendment. The next amendment, by 1283, by the Members of Parliament, Mr Arvanitides, Mrs Ahmet and others, concerns Akrini and the Angers and is also in line with the 1301s of Mr Kasapidis of the New Democracy. We accept it in substance, not in formulae, as we have already made progress in the legislative improvements to Article 147 in the direction proposed by the Democratic Association. In practice it means that we incorporated one semester and thirty days for the extradition of the Presidential Decree on the Coast. So it has been incorporated into the substance. We do not accept it if it is incorporated. The next amendment, Amendment No 1284, relates to the recasting of Article 119, to an increase in the authorised limit for excess to be exceeded to the holders. The proposed amendment is rejected. The keepers are protected per building and the total construction cannot be measured on the plot. Amendment No 1289 by Mrs Theopevettos and Mrs Karakostas concern the fragmentation of a building in the outside structure. It's accepted. It's a technical matter. A greater margin of flexibility is left to architecture councils. It is therefore accepted. Amendment No 1290 by Mr Kaklamani concerns the same subject as Amendment No 1299, to which I shall be following. We accept the next one. We are not formally accepting this proposal because it is incorporated into the next. Amendment No 1293 by Mr Vlachos concerns the suspension of fines and demolition until the forest maps are ratified. This question was answered yesterday by Mr Famello. Forest protection legislation as a whole cannot be applied until the forest maps are finally ratified. So it can't be accepted. Amendment No 1294 again by Mr Vlavo relates to the taxation of residential property. We agree that the proposed regulation is in the right direction, because it actually says that practically a parcel, which has been incorporated into the town plan, is now taxed as part of the town plan, despite the fact that the process of ratification of the implementing act, which gives substance to being able to build within a town plan, can be delayed for many years, five, ten or fifteen. A commercial property is therefore incorporated which cannot be used until the implementation operation takes place. It's in the right direction. We need to work on it further, because it also falls under the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance, so we will reintroduce this issue, which is both real and serious, but in agreement with the Ministry of Finance. So, no, despite the fact that we recognize it's in the right direction. The next one is Mr Vlacho's 1295 and it concerns the recognition of property rights by means of the law on arbitrary settlement. No, it's categorically not. This law cannot be a vehicle for resolving property issues. 1296 is Mr. Konstantopoulos. It concerns the transfer of the date - milestone of 28 July 2011. It is 'no' the answer. I think that this date is - and has been directly set by the Council of State - a point - a milestone in time. No new arbitrary can be legalised after that date. The next amendment, 1298, by the Members, and so on. Karakotas, Vayonakis, Dimitriadis, Theophevtou, Kafantaris, Moumoulides, Karanastasis concerns scales that have been built before the entry into force of the Building Regulation. They are legal buildings up to five hundred square meters, which need not be adapted to the Creative Regulation if they were completed before its adoption. It's accepted. The next one is 1299 by Mr. Carras. It is about unilateral modifications - the establishment of horizontal property for public spaces. "Yes" is the answer to a number of buildings. We are talking about places typically appearing as annexes to horizontal or vertical ownership - warehouses, arbitrary structures or changes in use - which use co-ownership, such as installation of central heating systems. Such irregularities prevent the transfer of the horizontal or vertical property typically belonging to the annexes as they have substantially changed to public areas. This amendment simplifys the procedure in order to ensure that the area typically displayed as part of the property is shared and shared, without the need to give assent to all the co-owners, since the arrangement serves co-ownership, so it can provide the public function of the building. It's accepted. The next amendment has exactly the same subject as Mr Carras' 1299. It is Amendment 1300 by Mr Karakostas and Mr Diaras. It's covered by the previous arrangement. Typical 'no', essentially 'yes', since we accepted the previous one. The last amendment is Mr Kasapidis's 1301 and concerns the relocation of settlements. I've answered that we've already incorporated it. So, essentially 'yes', typically 'no'. The last one is Mr Kamateros for the arbitrary constructions in the spaces delivered. It's the well-known issue of bank seats and arbitrary structures. It can't be accepted. A chance was given to settle in the previous law. The Ministerial Decision concerned only technical issues and no matter what. So we were given the opportunity to settle in the previous law. I think there is no reason now to give a new chance. As far as the municipalities are concerned, several municipalities are doing business. They must be adapted to the new reality and the owners who have been operating under this regime for years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-eight students and students and four educational sessions from the General School of Vuliagmenos. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Now, there is the floor for the honourable Member, Mr Hussein Zabeck. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u42	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law concerns the control and protection of the structured environment in the country. The policies for the structured environment all these years have helped to make the problem of arbitrary construction a deadlock, a deadlock affecting not only those who have wrongly made arbitrary, but also all the inhabitants of towns, villages, coastal areas, and even forest land. Many - mistakenly - account for this phenomenon in the mindset of our people or in the private interest. But, ladies and gentlemen, the real cause of the problem is the policies you have followed and the wrong management of the issue. What policy did you pursue on the issue of building, planning and the environment precisely? All you have done was "blocks" on the already hopeless situation, without any care to prevent arbitrary practices, and in particular to create a misconception that favoured immunity. The result of all this was the creation of an anarchist and arbitrary structured environment in Greece. This bill seeks three things. The first is the simplification and acceleration of procedures for issuing and controlling building licences, the second is the substantial revision of the mechanism and instruments for monitoring and controlling the quality of the structured environment and the third is the introduction of methods for dealing with arbitrary construction. However, the bill also brings many innovations, such as the Building Observatory for the control and quality of the structured environment, the Bank for the Rights of Building and Shared Areas, the Electronic Urban Identity of a Municipality, the new simplified way of issuing city permits, the electronic recording of arbitrary ones after July 2011 and the separation of arbitrary and urban violation sanctions. My view is that all these innovations come to rationalise our tools against arbitrary construction. It appeared from the long-term consultation of the bill that this view is almost universal. With regard to the new framework for building permits, the procedure is very simple, as the submission of the dossier with all the necessary studies electronically is immediately approved by the Construction Agency. The result is that the waiting time is nullified, corruption phenomena are eliminated and the Building Services are discharged. The existing status of the building and the permits accompanying it is also reflected by the electronic identity of the building, in order to facilitate the monitoring and monitoring of changes during the life of the building. With regard to arbitrary settlements, 28 July 2011 is a landmark with facilities for the old arbitrary ones such as the extension of subjection for two years, the increase in fine payments, the increase in fines in NATURA areas, fine reductions but, in particular, the suspension of instalments on the basis of social criteria. As for the younger arbitrary, fines are much larger by demolition and others. I would now like to bring back my proposal on the problem of the old city of Xanthi, which I hope will be seen either with the present or with the next draft law. In fact, I will try to include, perhaps, problems that arise in the rest of the country. The old town of Xanthi was characterized as a historic site in 1976, while in 1955 five hundred ninety-three buildings were declared. These preserved buildings were divided into 1, 2 and 3 categories. They are often the first residence of their owners. Due to the old times of the buildings or various damages to many keepers, the owners carried out arbitrary constructions to support their homes. Obviously, and in cases of arbitrariness, the state must not retreat. However, what happens in cases where the arbitrary construction took place before this historic site was declared or before these buildings were declared to be a preserver? I say this because there are also these cases. At the same time, the deadlock in which the owners of these dwellings are located, the supergovernment fines and the orders for demolition of buildings, especially in these conditions of the economic crisis, is forbidden for households. In particular, Article 116(9) provides that arbitrary constructions or uses in historical sites may be settled after the agreement of the Ministry of Culture and Sport, which shall precede the application of the provisions of this Law. Article 117 then stipulates that the application of this bill can only be made if the arbitrary structures do not exceed 10% of the building. Once again, however, the problem of this settlement is not solved. Our proposal during the consultation on the problem was to cover arbitrary constructions, uses or additions by height or extension made before and after the building was declared to be maintained, in percentages not exceeding 10% of the total building construction for the class A, 25% for the remaining Category B buildings, and in percentage not exceeding the total building conditions for Category C buildings, as well as arbitrary individual buildings within the property. In conclusion, I believe that we need a comprehensive account of the preserved buildings in the historical sites around Greece. I would like to urge the government to stand up to this particular problem. I propose the next legislative initiative on the structured environment to address these settlements, with a view to resolving the problem affecting our citizens and cities. This is very important and urgent, because these settlements are 'live' and we want their residents to continue there with rights and obligations. Their right is for their settlement to be sustainable, with the care of the state. Their obligation is to respect the definitive place in which they are situated. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I would like to say that, in the context of the application of the provisions of this law, which is very positively appreciated, we should also integrate our city with the rich historical past and excellent beauty. In other words, we should address the problem of the integration of arbitrary structures without the fragmentation of preserved buildings, but with a universal cohesive and predetermined integration into this legislative framework. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, too. Parliamentary spokesman for the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr Athanasios Theocharopoulos now has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we are one day after the visit of the Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras, to the President of the United States. We have heard you and Mr Famello mention and be very satisfied with this particular meeting. First of all, let me stress that our position is that, when these meetings are held, between the Prime Minister of the country and the President of the United States, it is a positive fact for our country's international relations. At the same time, even whatever Mr Trump will theoretically say and those in positive developments are included. But what did we see from this meeting? What practical results do we have from this meeting? The President of the United States only referred to theoretical developments in our country, saying that things will do well in relation to debt, in relation to investments, without giving any specific direction of pressure to the International Monetary Fund or elsewhere on these issues, no express commitment to all these issues. On the other hand, our country has, in fact, committed itself to upgrading the F-16. And as the President of the United States, Mr Trump, said, it will take 2.4 billion. He even congratulated the government on having the highest rates of defence spending in NATO. We saw after Mr Kammenos say about 1,1 billion and that the others would be compensatory. Has he made a request for compensation? Mr. Statakis, I'm in the Armistics Committee. I would like to tell you that with Mr Kammenos we discussed the F-16 in detail. The debate was, of course, confidential. But I would like to tell you that when we asked him about prices, he told us that he still does not have any specific prices and amounts. And we talked 15 days ago, we didn't talk a year ago. At the same time, he did not tell us that any procedure has been done for compensation in relation to such a reasonable upgrade. Of course, we are in favour - because I have heard you say so - of the Armed Forces. But here, in fact, there was a meeting and Mr Trump said that workers in the United States were winning. That's what he said if I'm not wrong. He actually gave Mr Tsipras, because he's doing the trade, so he's used to - business I mean - Mr. Trump. And he said, "We agreed on the 2.4 billion. He actually caught up with him. And we ask ourselves: is the Kammenos agenda actually a "SYRIZA" to the government now? This has to be answered in essence on all these issues, because I do not think that Mr Tsipras has put his own agenda at this meeting. And because one issue relates to your bill, I mean your area in relation to the environment, to climate change, to all that we have said about the environment and climate change since Mr Trump took over, did Mr. Tsipras say anything at the meeting, even our country's positions on how to go about climate change, which actually changed them to the worst with the leadership of the United States? Did he say anything? We have seen absolutely nothing on this agenda, not even our country's position. Minister, you said before that some people did not recognize a reality in relation to the Greek economy. I could say that it is a virtual reality that you are presenting to us, the Prime Minister, the Ministers, all of you, the Parliamentary Representatives when they speak. And why is it a virtual reality? I'll tell you some evidence. It turns out that the hopes of this government are being cultivated systematically. EUROSTAT's figures show that one citizen of the country lives in poverty. If you think that we can get out of the crisis with one of the three families in hunger and social exclusion, I think that this is a deceptive dream. The removal of inequalities, social cohesion, the reduction of poverty and unemployment can only be at the heart of a progressive policy, contrary to what is currently happening. The country is heading in the wrong direction on these issues, there is no national sustainable development plan. On the contrary, there are tax raids to achieve excessive surpluses, which you have signed with lenders. Unfortunately, if this dogmatic austerity policy continues, there will be Bulgarian wages at the cost of life of Germany in our country. And that's not theoretical. I will mention just one point from EUROSTAT's 2016 figures: 22.4% of the Greek population lives in poverty, i.e. it lacks basic consumer goods or is unable to meet basic financial obligations. The 22.4%! Do you know how the corresponding percentage, according to EUROSTAT's 2016 survey, was in the European Union? It was 7.5%! Are we talking about this exit from the crisis? Only Bulgaria and Romania from all countries of the European Union are below us. And it will not be for long if this policy continues. But the government's economic efficiency is also questioned. We saw that the forecasts for state revenue in September fell on the rocks, as the hole has opened instead of decreasing, despite the fact that it was expected, due to taxes, that there would be another logic. The official announcement by the Ministry of Finance, issued on Monday, with the provisional information on the progress of the implementation of the budget, reveals that not even the recovery of HNVIA in September saved the receipts of taxes. So all this, which you are analysing for growth, investment, is actually a virtual reality that Greek society does not experience. That's exactly the problem. And, unfortunately, that is the problem in all of the government's economic and social policy. To go to today's bill. Before I mention some elements, I cannot see what you have done differently from what you have complained about in the previous period - a general question I ask you - in relation to the arbitrary situation, in relation to how we will resolve this issue in our country and what you have said as your opposition. Do you have any other perspective on this matter? Because I will tell you that you do not have, regardless of whether a bill has positive regulations. We first said it and pointed it out. And in any case, we are making a programme of opposition and we will show our responsible attitude and then. But have you made a breakthrough on this particular issue, on how we handle arbitrary or settle and move on to a new generation of arbitrary ones? So we are discussing today a bill with the fact that, unfortunately, arbitrary construction is a phenomenon linked to the social, political and economic contexts of Greek reality. It is supposed that a serious bill should also state sincere political will. She's telling her? That's the question. It should also rule out any perpetuation of the problem from now on. Is he doing it? In order for any system to function at the same time, there should be infrastructure, coordination and cooperation between bodies, as well as other pathogens of public administration. Is that obvious? Former Minister for the Environment, Mr. Tsironis, stated in 2016 that "if we are able to trust our citizens and to the extent that they can pay what they need, then in two years' time this situation will now be in the past". A year has already passed, and obviously in the time of the one who lives, it will not be the extremely complex situation in the past. And since I also spoke of the economists' representative in the government, do the Ecumenical Greens, who are in the government, agree with the logic of this bill? I have heard some of their members' positions and criticisms in committee about whether there is a left-hand identity in this bill and whether it can solve the chronic problems, the diseases in this matter that we are constantly discussing, the issue of arbitrary ones. But let's go on trust. Basically, through this bill you ask for trust. But why should citizens trust you that this bill, which - I say again - contains positive regulations, will be implemented? Continuous and repeated amnesty benefits lead, in addition to increasing speculation, the political hostage and the perpetuation of many pathogens, not to believe in the laws. On the substance, there is no follow-up to the public administration. And in this law, as in many others, you repeat many of the arrangements of previous laws - councils, licensing with the responsibility of engineer, electronic building identity - but for which you have not issued the necessary presidential decrees, joint ministerial decisions, but you are now bringing them as new regulations. So I'm worried. It will take countless KHS again - the well-known problems I mean public administration - and ministerial decisions, which we do not know when and whether they can be adopted. And, from the outset, we have the same problem of reproducing! How will this situation be cured and become a past? That's the point. The issue is horizontal. It requires horizontal solutions. For example, you could also do a survey of what is happening in other countries. We're not trying to find out about America. In Portugal, for example, which has the smallest arbitrary structure compared with Italy and Spain, four bodies involved - notaries, local council, tax office and real estate - are among them electronically interconnected in order to better control the arbitrary structure. Here, of course, we have structural weaknesses in all these issues, in relation to the register, with the digital base, so there is a chaos of legislation that leaves room for manipulation. We also need control mechanisms. The existing ones are under-represented and for those of you who are planning, such as the Building Observatory, you do not tell us how and when you will serve them. All this requires political will, coordination and horizontal solutions. Despite the positive provisions of this bill, some of which are previous governments, it is attempting to find a solution to the chaos of town and country planning with ballasts, which simply hide or translate bad texts into the future. The bill is superficial, but it's collecting. And yes, it can be legitimate, that is, aid from the national funds, but it is not an environmental protection measure, which must above all be protected. Is he protected, though? Here's the question. What you are actually doing here is to further settle the arbitrary. If that's what you want, say it directly. If you do not want to say that there must be a definitive arrangement, not with patches at a time and with that logic. This bill, therefore, does not show a substantial willingness to change this policy towards arbitrary construction in the direction of environmental protection. On the other hand, a new, distinct category of arbitrariness is added, although these areas should be protected rather than simply increasing the fines, in an erroneous tactic, which is still being followed. And I don't just mean by you, I don't mean by your government alone. But if these areas are destroyed and, indeed, in a irreversible way, what will the fine have? So here we need another logic for these regions. But let's look at it and collect it. Is there going to be a differentiation of fines depending on the offender? Because, obviously, another special burden is the arbitraryness of a hotel unit and another illegal canteen. And what will be the criteria of differentiation? There have been very long examples of companies with a turnover of EUR 1,600 000, to which a fine of EUR 10,000 has been imposed, which is obviously not a deterrent. That is why we reiterate that the matter is horizontal and should be dealt with in such a way. In conclusion, the bill, which also contains positive regulations, is not a reform. The preventive suppression of arbitrary construction is lacking, as is an integrated urban planning that will solve the problem. In other words, the bill is not long breath. This is a complex issue and it cannot be dealt with by a simple piece of legislation. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the economic crisis cannot continue to be an excuse for all of us that the dialogue on the major environmental issues, in particular the shortcomings and uncertainties of our country's institutional framework and control mechanisms, has been considerably jeopardised. And this bill does not promote an integrated urban and spatial planning. This design should be initiated by the illusion of problems and structured on two main axes: legal certainty for citizens and the safeguarding of public property and the protection of the environment. On the contrary, new pathogens are still being expanded and new pathogens are being created. With this situation we will not get out of the crisis easily. I, ladies and gentlemen, would expect the Prime Minister not only to speak of F-16 and of new equipment, but also to talk about these issues, where the new leadership of the United States seems to be of no importance. For climate change, for example - we have discussed them many times in committees - it has not made any references. The SYRIZA - ANLL government has now proceeded to an agenda that is an agenda for the Independent Greeks. Unfortunately, this does not benefit the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u45	The speaker of SYRIZA, Mr Dimitriadis, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, any criticism in this bill will be good based on findings and facts which we know little - very much all of us. We are a country - probably the only one in the European Union - that has no comprehensive register, no forest maps, no beaches, no town plans, no no plans, no one. I mean, there's no developmental basis. Moreover, in regular times, it is faced with a huge problem of environmental, spatial and, above all, social dimensions, which is the arbitrary construction. There have been considerable efforts, it is the truth, in post-multipleism, but they have not been enough to heal the problem. We are trying, by recognizing the above, to solve the accumulated problems in a uniform way, because otherwise the problem is not healed. We establish the procedures for the appropriate spatial planning tools to be available to land use, especially spatial and regional spatial planning programmes. In this context, the logic of the bill is to make it easier to settle with strong income and social criteria. In short, in the face of distortions and in the past, we are going to add another puzzle which, firstly, consolidates the democratisation of the relations between citizens and structures and the structured environment and, secondly, economic growth with a view to economic development. This bill does two things. The first is that it decides how the buildings are to be licensed. It makes a deep intersection and separates the towns of the municipalities from control from the regions. The institution of the private engineer, as already exists in the register of auditors, is introduced. In addition, municipalities make local planning plans that are now in 100% of the Greek territory. Of course, in order to make these spatial plans, certain things like, firstly, the delimitation of forests are required, secondly, the arrangement of beaches and sanctuaries and, thirdly, the land register is subject to a new body together with mortgages so that in 2020 we can have a strong register of at least 70% of the land. The single register on the ground gives security and a legal basis on which development issues will be resolved, as we all know. This is a real framework, a clear, simplified, less bureaucratic, but at the same time reliable framework concerning licensing, control and the role of monitoring the whole building activity, this time by private engineers. The second one that tries to do the bill concerns itself in this arbitrary construction. For the first time, then, simple infringements of the arbitrary buildings are distinguished in two categories. There is a strong care - aid - regularization. We are trying and seeking to create security on a number of issues that arise. It is also a significant section of the bill that refers to public spaces and to the environmental balance, which is an important criterion in order to proceed with this process. The articles on the transfer of the building coefficient and the Bank for the Rights of Building and Commonwealth do not come to serve any major capital but to serve the arbitrary cities. There is a possibility for an obvious upgrade of the public space through a reliable environmental balance. The law, too, cannot solve property issues because it cannot interfere with them. Finally, fines are such that are really dissuasive of future arbitrages. Ladies and gentlemen, you will also allow me to refer to Article 147 on my area, in particular, the energy basin, the lignite fields of western Macedonia and the compulsory relocations of settlements that are needed for this precisely so that the mining process can continue uninterruptedly. With Article 147 on the expropriation of the Argentine and Akrinian settlements, we are amending Law 3937/2011 which provided for the elimination of the burden of expropriations and relocations between PPC and the Greek State. But it has always been, for many years, a classic example of timeless deception and mocking of all the people in the basin area for a very simple and basic reason: the process of expropriation or relocation has never proceeded, because the first condition was to pay the Greek public some hundreds of millions of euros. The second condition was that PPC S.A. should have done the same thing, except those who then, in 2011, legislated exactly this law had already signed the first memorandum and it was impossible to disburse these amounts from the budget, at least on a close horizon. For PPC, of course, they had already launched the process of divesting it, privatising it and reimbursing it, so who would pay for what? In short, they knew at first hand that nothing was going to be financed, based on the fact that this law, No.3837/2011, had no timetable or any time commitment. So, on the one hand, we created a financial area in the state funds and, on the other, we rescued PPC as a business and its public nature. We have therefore been able to respond to this critical decision of relocation and forced expropriation after the end of 2016, that is, after stabilising the things I have just mentioned. So we moved politically to activate the provisions of the law with a real sense of responsibility. The landslide of the mine of Amynteio and the tragedy it has brought to the settlement of the Anargyrs has indeed speeded up this process. We are therefore bringing this amendment to Law 3937 on forced expropriation in the settlement of the Anargiers in favour of the Greek State and with a specific timetable, as should the previous Act of 2011, if it were actually to be implemented. In addition, we define the time for expropriation of the Akrini in one semester, in response to the proposal of the recent popular assembly of the inhabitants of the community and of local government. We are consistent with our commitments, because in the meantime we have created the conditions to be consistent. We've worked for it. The politicians themselves who were therefore constantly cheating on us in a rare market policy move tabled an amendment calling for us to change the law they had adopted. It's a monument of amoralism and ignorance of danger to the evil they did to our country. However, the possibilities in the political dignity are irresistible and our struggle to get out of the crisis with the whole society upright are before us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, too. SYRIZA MP Mr Emmanoulidis has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin with an empirical saying: 'I am not crying for what I have lost, I lament what I am losing'. On this axis, the current political tribulation of the New Democracy and PASOK, which have made the fates of our people in all the post-cultural years, revolts. Indeed, for these parties the past year from the takeover of governance by PASOK to this day is the time when New Democracy and PASOK cried for what they lost. They lost their dear "Alexandria". The last period, however, opens up for them the lamentation cycle for what they lose. What, are they losing? Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy and PASOK are aware that from now on, every day with SYRIZA in the government, they lose their social and political ruins. The reason lies in the fact that the socio-political footprint of the government is increasingly highlighting the structures of a guilty political system, loaded with public sins, which has devastated our country, thus throwing our people into the Memorandum of Columbia. This is in complete correspondence with the spirit of the draft legislation to be passed. I'm getting clearer: All these years, without elementary economic, political and social responsibility, New Democracy and PASOK built public construction on streams. Fresh the images of disgrace from the City Hall and the Samothrace Health Center during recent floods. Frequently, the phenomenon of refreshing to grant citizens land characterized as streams, quarries to hurt aesthetic areas of aesthetic beauty with tourist character, olive mills to coexist with tourist units, airports to be created in protected environmental areas, for example the Ramsar Treaty, the investment of the Greek to be signed without the necessary opinions of Archaeology and Forestry. It is, in fact, a joke that the representatives of the New Democracy and PASOK talk about development planning when they did not want to create a national property register and put up forest maps when they did not want or could not provide a national spatial planning plan, specifying with minimum clarity the uses of land. Ladies and gentlemen of PASOK and of New Democracy, you have committed crimes against our country in your works and days. You left it unarmed by depriving it of the necessary institutional framework for investment activity. You have promised its development perspective, at the same time allowing its aesthetic, cultural and environmental abuse. All these points are not the product of a mixed political controversy on our part, it is the pain that is born to every thinking citizen for the missed opportunities for our country to walk on the path of favoured development. With this draft law, our aim is on the one hand to reflect our political will to bring legality and regularity to the structured environment, in terms of environmental, social and cultural sensitivity and, on the other, to create the conditions that favour the development prospects of our country. Having as a project the care, prevention and protection of the environment, the bill also tries to deal with bureaucratic inclinations in the licensing procedures, which have often been subject to or - even worse - and fuelled offenses. In order to achieve this objective, the draft law adopts an approach aimed at simplifying and speeding up the procedures for issuing and controlling building licences and, on the one hand, provides for a substantial revision of both the mechanism and the instruments for monitoring the quality of the structured environment and the methods for dealing with arbitrary construction. The new institutional tools set up by the bill include, among other things, a new administrative structure, that of the structured environment observatory, which will deal exclusively with the control and quality of the structured environment. This competence is assigned to the second degree of local self-government, the regions, which will set up local monitoring services, regional observers and local observers at regional level, the bank of rights to build and public spaces, and the corresponding transfer of a build-up coefficient with the titles of an environmental balance contribution, the Electronic Urban Identity of a Municipality to monitor the development of urban planning, the new way of issuing urban permits, the separation from the sanctions of a new arbitrary and a mere urban violation. In addition, the red line of 28 July 2011 as a date beyond which the tolerance of state and society cannot be extended, with the exception of the demolition of arbitrary structures or changes of use, which have not yet completed their bearer, clearly separating the old from the new arbitrary and providing for discreet treatment and sanctions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr President, and I shall conclude. Furthermore, the provisions prohibiting the placing on protection areas such as hays, forests, streams, archaeological sites, etc. shall be maintained. and the provisions providing for systematic checks on construction and construction through means of absolute transparency are laid down. It is attempting to diversify the arbitrary construction from the mere urban violation, for which there is a discreet treatment, without a criminal procedure, by imposing administrative sanctions. The bill came after a long debate, deposit and exchange of views with a number of involved actors and institutions. He placed himself in public consultation in September 2016 and continued public dialogue through working groups, where many comments and suggestions were evaluated and incorporated. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that by voting on the draft legislation we are successfully attempting another deprivation from the vast social minefield that you have set up in all the years of your governments in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, too. Mr. Armalene has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, this bill together with the bill on spatial planning that we voted last year, at the end of 2016, are key pillars in the development planning of the country, regions, small sites and small societies on the islands. If we also take into account what was introduced yesterday in the Committee on Production and Trade for the alternative management of waste, then we can safely say that, with the implementation of this legislative framework, important steps will be taken to ensure sustainable development, which together with a socially-based division of this development, actually creates the new landscape of development and the new development model that we want to build in the post-mortem era. The crucial issue, however, is not the legalisation, but the implementation of this legislation, which requires the continuous supervision and vigilance of the competent services of the central state, as well as the co-responsible services at regional and local level, but also the development of a new culture in society of mutual respect and respect for the rules that will overcome distortions and diseases of immunity, arbitrary and uncontrolled procedures which have prevailed in the country with the responsibility of the political, economic and social establishment which has been ruling for decades. It is precisely because it is important to implement and not just legislate - and, indeed, speedy implementation - that matters relating to the adoption of presidential decrees and ministerial decisions, which, of course, have been set for six months. However, the possible review of the many level committees may have to be reviewed, such as committees for the examination of arbitrary appeals, where their powers could be fulfilled by the relevant directorates and control departments, the observers, which are well established. I think they can have this competence and there is no need for a further committee to examine appeals and delays. And because, from my previous term at the Prefecture of Cyclades and the Southern Aegean Regional Council, we had developed special action against arbitrary construction, unfortunately, then without any result, I describe to you features that once, which we had campaigned for arbitrary construction in the Cyclades, I had been exposed to a room full of files with recorded arbitrary buildings on the islands on all the Cyclades that no one wanted and could not touch. Exactly, therefore, because we are particularly sensitive, we consider that this bill can start a reverse course on this issue. The institution of the Observatory, incentives and fines against infringements and infringements shall create a framework for addressing them. Particularly important is the co-responsibility of officials, owners and manufacturers of arbitrary infringements, but also the sharing of fines to everyone if they do not comply with the decisions of the observers, whether they are demolitions or anything else. From there on, there are some issues, some of them I have put to committee. I have not tabled any amendments or any legislative improvements, because I believe that although they are not accepted today, in the course of the process and in practice the Ministry itself will revise them. However, I would consider that they could have already been taken into account and even formulated in today's bill. First theme. In Article 3, the Monitoring Councils for the Structured Environment quite rightly take this responsibility down in society, involving many co-responsible bodies within these councils. However, if we look at their composition, no representative of producer organisations is involved, whether they are workers, farmers or entrepreneurs, etc. Because they will be invited to implement the development plan resulting from spatial planning. In Article 8, concerning the setting-up of Architecture Councils, I have said so to the committee. Each regional unit does not cover all island regions. Especially in the small islands of Cyclades, for example, we have regional units without town planning - such as Kea and Kythnos or even other very tourist islands, Mykonos which has a building that is still in operation, or Santorini with six islands which have only one engineering town, which is not enough to fulfil the obligations. Minister, we need to find a solution with a first priority, the immediate implementation of the town and Mykonos and Santorini, so that we do not have these sad results found by the environmental auditors. The environmental auditors in Mykonos found some two hundred arbitrary in the last year alone, while in Santorini they found a series of arbitrary complaints we have made as Members of the Cyclades. Therefore, the issue is how to ensure, together with the application of the law, the speed of addressing this arbitrary nature. Because if we wait a year and a half, a new generation will have been created on these islands as well. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, just a minute. In Article 5, the building inspectors will only submit their findings to the observers and not to other agencies, because we will have delays in any implementation of decisions, whether legalisation or demolition. Also, in Rule 95 - I told the committee - only 25% of the fines in the regions, in my opinion, are small. It should go up to 35%, because there is a question for the regions to gain responsibilities seriously with this bill. So there is also a need to increase the funds transferred. Finally, an observation about the off-strategic construction. Of course, the spatial planning and control of the structured environment also form the framework for building within or outside the plan, but I think that the concept of a gradual abolition of the non-building project must be passed, while extending the existing settlements so that Greece can be brought into line with what exists in the European Union.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u51	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u52	I shall conclude, Mr President, with a word. Finally, a legal comment, Mr President, on the amendment to the pilot projects for energy in the islands, the criteria and conditions for the submission of tenders by ministerial decision, the participation of local communities, municipalities and local bodies in adding the word 'conferences' - I said it beforehand - because I think there is a work done by the Chamber of Cyclades.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u53	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u54	Thank you very much, Mr President, for that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, too. The Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn Mr.Ilias Panagiotaros has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. From the 'Hasta la Victoria siempre', the hugs with comrade Madour, the tears at the funeral of Fidel Castro, you were in a meeting with the "I hope not to find this evil", which happens to be the planet leader! They also laugh at the pavement of "counte Tsepra" by the press conference and the questions they asked him and to which he did not know what to answer, his continued humiliation, and on this issue, and the endless "treaming" that takes place at the level of bullying. Maybe someone should finally intervene to protect our Prime Minister! He wonders, he thinks, not the poet but the geopolitical analyst: Since international circumstances are on our side, regardless of whether we do everything we can to the contrary, this journey will bring the most benefits to us by the government's 'pads' for our country? Instead, it develops on a recreational journey for the multitude of Prime Minister and other managers, supposedly in America to serve the interests of our country. In more detail, I would like to say the following: about the scalp, mug, not a word, nothing at all! Regarding the upgraded role of Albanians in this particular field, we saw that only a few days ago the Prime Minister of Albania recognised both a Bulgarian and a sceptic minority within his country, without there being anything that this entails. With regard to the North Continental, which is in direct connection and relevance and to the scorpion, we have seen nothing. Instead, we saw that the 'Great Albania' project is progressing rapidly. The Prime Minister of Albania again had the flag of Albania and Kosovo. They have almost gone to de facto unification of the state of Albania and this state of state - nobody knows what it is - Kosovo. About the Cyprus issue, what did we see and see? Continuous upgrading of Turkish Cypriots and pseudo-crats in relation to the fair demands of Greek Cypriots and Greeks. Why did you not say anything, now that the climate is very good for Greece, about Turkey's intention to buy a drill from South Korea, in order to start illegal drilling in Cypriot and Greek lands? The Cypriot plots are, of course, institutionalised, established, defined, and we still have neither EEZ nor anything at all. We have also heard Mr Stathakis say that they will become a great deal of deal. Nothing at all! Mosquito words of air, which we tell anyone who has an interest in energy issues in the Aegean, Cyprus and elsewhere. Regarding Turkey, which is supposed to be the great loser of this case lately, because it has dared and taken S-400 from Russia, has dared - or has been forced - to change its attitude to the issue of Syria, we see that it is also well with America. The F-35 deliveries will begin in a short time in Turkey, where they will now be dramatically folding the platinum at armaments level against Greece. At the same time, Turkey's President, Mr Erdogan, went to America, with which he was supposed to be doing no good. The meeting was very good and essential, of course. Because Turkey bought dozens of aircraft from BOEING for Turkish airline, a deal tens of billion euros, an incredible deal, except F-35, and plays the geopolitical game with all players very well. What did we achieve? Yesterday - there are objections here - the President of the United States came out and said about the upgrading - and this is a very long debate - of the F-16, which will cost us EUR 2.4 billion. However, as much as we upgrade the F-16, which is a third-generation aircraft, we cannot deal with the "invisible" F-35. So 'invisible', which you, gentlemen of the government, should also be made ill with, that you are preparing to give such a large amount of money to upgrade the F-16. At the same time, the American admiral, visiting the facilities of 'LOCKHEED MARTIN' in Texas, said that 'we can't even track our own F-35'. And we'll have a demand from lower F-16, no matter how upgraded we make them, to deal with aircraft that will cause us very big problems at all levels. And the worst of all, is that of this F-16 equipment program, we won't have any benefit in Greece. As Donald Trump said, however, we will have absolutely no benefit. The benefit will be for American workers in their military industries, because everything will, apparently, become there. On the substance of this, Greece will be found with a very large amount of aid for upgrading aircraft, which will in no way be able to cope with the very briefly entering Turkish Air Force F-35. They won't have any luck. The Greek Air Force, as we have said, will have a serious problem with regard to the excessively upgraded Turkish aviation. And here, of course, no reason to make other alternatives, such as a 4+ generation aircraft, such as Sukhoi 35, which is at very good prices, which can be dealt with by F-35. Because we simply do not operate for the benefit of our country and our Armed Forces, but we usually operate for the benefit of the pockets of some mediators at the centre or not on the geopolitical benefit of others. And I would also like to make a comment here to see that we are gradually not interested in being able to negotiate our national issues seriously when we ourselves - and we mean you, ladies and gentlemen of the government - cannot support even within our own country. One example is this disgrace that happens with a small team, the PAE Pontius, which wore an anniversary shirt that says: "I always forget, I honor" and was punished three, four times and zeroed. Even today at 17.00 a.m., the appeal he has appealed to the offices of the NCA behind Badminton is being discussed. So what do we talk about when we don't claim self-evident? And we also saw the incredible offices of SYRIZA in Komotini teaching Turkish, teaching particular lessons within SYRIZA's local area. And be laughing at everyone. But you don't care about that, since you've never been interested in national matters. Don't worry about more now. And in this whole story from the Americans, what do we get? We have been told and discussed for a year and a half that they will give us some Kiowa helicopters. In the end, however, this concession was postponed, because we would be given "naked", without radar, without weapon systems, without anything at all. They have been talking for some years to grant us armored Abrams. Talk is going on, but they never come. And we see countries such as Albania, Bulgaria, Turkey and other countries in the region constantly getting free military material from America. Both destroyers Arleigh Burke all say they're joining the Navy, but they're all not joining. And the information tells us that there is a very serious issue, because the Americans' demand for these very useful destroyers is that they really want them to be here so that when the sixth fleet is in the periphery they are on permanent and continuous employment to protect the sixth fleet and not on our national interests. As we see the general geopolitical chess board constantly changes. There are signs and monsters, dramatic changes in the wider region, other than Greece, which does nothing at all at any level. Example of this is why the incredible answer that the then Minister of Avramopoulos gave to a question from the Golden Dawn in 2012 about the entrusted Assad regime in Syria, supporting Islamics and jihadists. Of course, things have changed. Assad, with the help of the Russians, prevailed against the state and all the situations in the Middle East have changed, and we have always been with those who in the end lose. Let's see if we've won anything on the economic field since the visit to America. Only the known phrase ‘support for debt’. They're messing with us. How will this happen when the IMF - which is a great deal to say - by oral Obama - is another arm of American foreign policy? Three years ago he was at West Point School to swear the new officers and said that "except our army we have the World Bank and the IMF". Wait when they hit you in the back that 'we'll do something about this' and they don't do anything at all. There is also one piece of information that is now fighting the financial staff of Mr Stathakis, Mr Tsipras, to come out of a new swap, to see how a debt can be transferred - neither haircut nor anything at all - so that the next ones can fade away for a while, afterward, eat it on the neck. Finally this journey is exclusively a recreational journey. Did you really say anything to the family, which is deeply religious, about church matters? We read just the day before yesterday that Mr. Friends gave a left-wing newspaper on church matters. Very good, to use the catechists and elsewhere to direct the matter of the Church! We also saw Mr. Kontonis kissing the cross the other day that Jerome gave him to a sanctuary and all good! As far as this bill is concerned, Mrs Zaroulia has been placed and will be reassigned for some articles. Why didn't you give a good example of the world's biggest arbitrary, "The Mall", once in the bars and yelling, but slowly and now that you're government, you're "doing a garrison" and you're trying to legitimise it at all costs? At the same time as calling on all those who have an illegal pergola or something to pay and pay again to legalize it, for the greatest arbitrary in the world you do absolutely nothing. Really, and what about this illegal Roma settlement behind the Mint, which is the 'Gangrana' for the whole region? Nothing at all. You're saying something? You brought a whole bill. The fair demands of the citizens, the landowners who have trampled her? Nothing at all. Two meters and two stations, where it suits you and where it doesn't suit you. Of course you don't care to settle arbitraryly. There is also this bill and vote, some rumbles in local areas. For the amendments, Mr Minister, apart from Amendment No 1269, where we are going to say 'no' to the other three we say 'no' to the other three, as we say 'no' to the amendments. Unfortunately, by ending, things are very bad for our country. And as the great Theodore Kolokotronis said in his memorials, as a prophet: “With atheists, with ecclesiastics, with corrupt politicians the nation does not stand.” If we want things to change, we have to change a lot. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-six students and four educational attendants from the 7th Primary School of Livadias. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Igoumenides, Member of the SYRIZA, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in discussing the issue of arbitrary construction, in my opinion it is necessary to separate the arbitrary buildings of the densely populated towns. There are cities where 50% to 80% of their buildings are arbitrary constructions, because in some of these last fifty years there has been no or minimal intervention based on needs in town plans. So the problem in many areas has taken explosive proportions and is a cause for justified social concern. Mr President, several colleagues from New Democracy and the PASOK have come to this. First, they were placed for the Prime Minister's trip to America. Now that we have discussed the upgrading of the F-16, they have been caught by pain for the poor and the weak of this society, who, with their politics, have created them. If we made the return, then they'd talk and make their flag the Attitude of the Armed Forces. Gentlemen of the New Democracy and of the PASOK, neither do you care for the poor and weak of this society. You're interested in how to hit SYRIZA. Okay, I get it. You want to hide, but the bitterness won't let you. You use any argument just to argue against the government. In any case, all I hold is that the size of the reactions and the expression of your bitterness reflects the successes of our Government. So we came and heard a lot about successes from previous environmental laws. They were so successful the laws you brought, which in the cities of Heraklion and Gazios in Crete 10% has applied for arbitrary settlement. Why? And, unfortunately, the problem and the success of your laws do not end here. Even if the Greeks decided to tear down their arbitrary buildings - we're talking about a million buildings, in the area of Heraklion 60% to 80% in Gaza - you understand that if these buildings were demolished, the images of the bombed Syrian cities arriving in our television receivers would be a playground in the result that your laws would create. Even if they decided to demolish them, the Greek citizens would, in fact, have been indebted by the current maintenance of their arbitrary debts of 360 billion, above the country's external debt. Many examples of your successes, which we really miss. To sum up, Mr President, first of all, the problem of arbitrary cities, first of all, reflects the lack of the Greek state over time in dealing with the concentration of population in urban centres, the diagnosis of housing needs and the financing of city plans in cities and large-scale areas. Secondly, with the policy pursued so far by the PASOK and New Democracy governments, the problem of arbitrary ones has been gigantic; on the other hand, it has been exploited in the search for electoral clienteles through the policy of hostages of arbitrary owners in legitimate promises. Thirdly, the continuing extensions of the application of the laws given to date by the previous governments have essentially contributed to the perpetuation of this rotten, sick reality, hiding the problem under the carpet. The Left, for reasons of principle, and for reasons of ideology and political responsibility, cannot hide nor hide the problem like PASOK and New Democracy. It has to deal with it with respect for the environment, with respect and responsibility for our people. Left footprint and social sign is the policy of lifting the political choices that lead to the construction of arbitrary buildings. It is the policy, which gives a solution to the problem of the hostage policy of the 'absolute', in which they were held for decades by the rotting political system. In the same direction, the left is the policy which, through speeding up procedures for the extension of town plans, will put an end to the reproduction and perpetuation of this problem. Finally, the policy with a class mark is the policy that faces the problem in its entirety, with respect to the environment, with respect for what we will leave our children. So today's draft law on the structured environment is in direct relation to forest maps, spatial planning, control over planned investments and all other environmentally related government initiatives. Here in my opinion, ladies and gentlemen, will anyone find an answer to the question 'Why have the previous governments not solved the problem?' Because it's not just a matter of competence. Their laws do not only reflect their political incapacity, but their political orientation is clearly reflected. A policy that led the country to the rocks was slowly failing to save the structured environment. He obviously couldn't exclude it from all this course. From an economic point of view, ladies and gentlemen, I think that the drastic reduction in the cost of settlement and the final solution to the problem is the only realistic policy. It's a one-way to the left. A large part of the funds from the cost of settlement must finance the required city plans and the creation of the infrastructure they require, with all the positive results that this entails, particularly in our time for the economy, for society and for the quality of life of city residents. In this sense, and from this point of view, I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we have a good law in our hands, and during the process, several proposals have been heard and accepted by the Minister, which make it even better. I do also see it, and I receive it from the bodies of Heraklion, many proposals and comments from the bodies involved in the problem, accepted and converted into articles of this law which we will shortly be voting on. I think that in order to do this, a lot of people have worked. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Please, Mr President, let me finish in a minute. I would like at this point, and personally, to thank Mrs Agrios from the Ministry's staff, who has not been uneasy and effort, for meetings here in the ministry, in the House, in Heraklion, for meetings, discussions with the institutions. In the face of Mrs Agrios, I would really like to thank the entire staff of the Ministry, who worked for this law, for the effort she has made. I will not say and will not stand by the law any more, Minister. I'm just going to make one observation. Beyond the incentives we give to join the law, those with Law 4178 had the right to join and did not join, waiting for better economic conditions - which we do well and bring - not to lose the right to join today's law. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, with the draft which we will shortly be voting on and which will become a law of the state, the left-wing government, in my opinion, based on the principles of social justice and equality of citizens - I shall conclude, Mr President - solve, as it has to do, the problem of arbitrary settlement, the problem of financing the plans of the city, the arbitrary towns, and the speeding up and simplification of the plans of the city.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u59	Finish, Mr. Igoumenides.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u60	I shall conclude, Mr President. I believe that the citizens of the urban fabric of our country, from today, have another weapon in their hands, in their struggles, in the struggles for all of us to live with dignity in human cities. However, no matter how right this lawfulness of years of struggle demands is, it is not enough. I believe, Mr President, that it is necessary to continue the fight of the living social forces next to the government's efforts, because only in this way will we be able to address this complex problem of arbitrary forces and put a solution to the left-hand seal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, too. Mr Gatis, SYRIZA Member, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u62	Thank you very much, Mr President. It's a special honor to speak when you preside.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, too. You're from Twelfths, anchored!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u64	And with pride and honor! Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, a law on the protection and control of the structured environment has for many years been the subject of a new framework for integrated processing, codification of existing complex and often contradictory legislation. From the Constitution, Article 17 and Article 24, it follows that the purpose of building planning is to protect the natural, cultural and cultural environment, as well as to serve the social interest, achieved by defining terms and conditions, to be fulfilled in the execution of any construction within or outside the approved towns or settlements, in accordance with the principles set out in the Constitution, to exploit the potential for upgrading the quality of life, by protecting the natural, cultural and structured environment as I have said. The philosophy of the bill aspires to promote a more comprehensive concept of building. It is guided by the need to shield legislation, with regard to the structured environment, the quality of life of citizens, the protection of the natural environment. The draft law we are debating today appears in the form and structure of a code of consolidation of all the provisions on its construction and control. Clearly and without correlations that could create ambiguity and confusion in the current situation, it contains arrangements on principles such as the concepts of prevention, transparency and accessibility of information itself, but also on matters of recording and monitoring the current situation through the application of the electronic identity of buildings, electronic infrastructure. Replacement of the first chapter of Law 4178/2011 shows a change in political response to arbitrary construction in the direction of environmental protection. The new requirement introduced is the compulsory preparation of the study on the static adequacy of arbitrary workers, on new subordinations, but also on the basis of Law 4178/2013. Any attempt to address the issue of arbitrary construction is always linked to the promotion and integration of spatial planning at national, regional and local level, which is very important for the island regions, because the geographical area is limited through which construction is developed. The positive elements of the bill are the application of earlier law provisions on the electronic identity of the building, the creation of the Observatory and the re-establishment of older inactive provisions, which refer to the creation of a Land Bank, which is called the Bank for the Rights of the Building and the Commonwealth. A bank which will be powered by the transfer of the building coefficient to cover the balance between construction and public spaces. Another positive element of the arrangements is that the money collected from the fines will be allocated for the financial support of the Observatory, so that there will be resources for the demolition of the Green Fund, which will go about 50% of these resources, but also of the municipalities to which approximately 25% will go, but always with the supervision of the Green Fund for direct intervention for the benefit of the social system as a whole. In general, the bill deals with the transfer of a build-up factor as the main tool for limiting arbitrary construction. The structure of this bill clearly involves an integrated approach to the issues of structured space, while introducing a framework of construction, another to tackle arbitrary construction and a third to mechanisms and means to monitor the quality of the structured environment. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] The concept of observation and control, prevention, information and awareness on structured environments that seem to be the main backbone of the perception, is based on the establishment of a new central regional structure, which aims at addressing the multiplicity of competences and existing pathogens and delays with a key tool of various electronic platforms such as towns, electronic identity, factor transfer file, etc. The building identity and the electronic way of issuing the building permits were provided for in Law 3843/2010, but it was never applied. Building identity is considered to be an absolutely positive contribution to better monitoring of the structured environment. Today, it receives specific content, with the bill that we are tabling for vote. It is also positive that penalties for false declarations should be tightened, where the building is located in areas of special protection. Ladies and gentlemen, with this bill we are moving the country firmly forward. We create conditions for urbanisation based on the needs of the 21st century, with a tool for modern digital technology. We are strengthening, in other words, the foundations of our strategy for sustainable and fair growth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr. Gaki, and for the time economy. Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy Mr Constantine Javarra has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's day was a night that was full of light and was full of light at a point in the White House, called the Garden of the Roses. I do not know if those who heard the Prime Minister's words yesterday in this garden or those who happened to understand the meaning of the thanks of the President of the United States, continue within you to feel as Left as I listened to his colleague, who was just speaking from this Step. I do not want to say, in other words, that a consistent Leftist, listening to Mr Tsipras yesterday and being a member of SYRIZA, should feel himself as a cemetery of left ideas, but what no one can doubt is that, with the lips of the Prime Minister of Greece, the poor other than honour Greece has been the cause of creating jobs in the realm of imperialism and capitalism. And this, indeed, is something very amazing, incredibly, inconceivablely important. Greece accepts the thanks of the President of the United States, because the F-16 billion will create and strengthen employment in America. But does not one of those who support these policies finally feel that there can be no consistency with what SYRIZA or the Left, now represented by SYRIZA, in the past about the metropolis of capitalism and the source of imperialism? In any case, however, before we created jobs from investment in Greece, we had this terrible generosity, to give jobs and growth to America. That is why, with this kind of first finding, but also with a detail that is as touching as the reasons for the President of the Government, when, Minister, he was invited to answer the question, whether his attitude to Mr Trump has changed since he said that "if Mr Trump is going to be elected and Mr Trump has found us", he said, "Mr Trump has been a devilish way many times to approach reality but for a good purpose." Because I am unable to record on what cases Mr Trump has been devilishly dealing with the reality for a good purpose, but I am sure - because, indeed, my conscience has been enlightened - for the fact that I think the Prime Minister was describing what has been happening to him in the last two and a half years in Greece. In other words, it started from a devilish purpose to be a Prime Minister of the country and, finally, now it is trying to convince us that it is doing so for the good. How many will believe him, it's a bet. The sure thing is - to remember the verse of Elytis - that "the garden sees" and, indeed, since yesterday, a countdown began. There in the Garden of the Rhodes I think the Prime Minister must have felt what it means when the garden of pleasure meets the garden of the pilgrims, and then it is certain that from this story, only beneficial is Greece not going to come out. Along with that, of course, I believe that everyone today feels how dangerous some situations are trying on the part of the government to vomit, while at the very bottom they remain threatening for the future of the country. But I come to the bill. Minister, I really would like you to put yourself on one single issue. I am impressed by the fact that the Government systematically ignores the case law of the Council of State and recommends to the House bills, which suffer from incurable unconstitutionality on the basis of the case-law of the Court of Appeal. The history and the assumption with the transfer of the build-up factor has been legislated twice before. It is one that has been legislated by Law 2300/1995 and the second by Law 3044/2002. In both cases the decisions of the Council of State have specific arguments concerning the interpretation and application of Article 24, resulting in the suspension of the application of this particular mechanism of transferring the factor of construction. This is because transferring the factor of construction is a mechanism for protecting the cultural and natural environment. That is exactly what Article 24(6) provides. You are told by case law but, above all, by the report by the Scientific Council of Parliament, do not attempt to re-establish this mechanism, if you do not respond to the needs arising from the office that every settlement must bear the burden of its structure. In other words, under no circumstances can the building coefficient be carried over - in areas and areas which have not been identified by the municipalities, and after the maximum coefficient, which can be awarded by each settlement, has not been established. In this sense there is also a lack. It is neither mentioned nor provided for what the remuneration of the beneficiary should be for the transfer of the building. I insist, and I will end up with the following. I do not know whether it is systematic, but at least as many times as I happen to be a Parliamentary representative on behalf of the New Democracy, I happen to refer systematically to violations of the Constitution which exist in bills discussed in this House. My big question is this. Is what the Prime Minister once announced from the Step of this House that SYRIZA, all of you MPs and ministers, are you each of the words of the Constitution, also lost in the "Rhodes Garden"? Has this also become windy, so that it can rise up the sails of this government in all directions, but not to the one that the place needs to come out of the crisis? So I shall end up with a last look from this beautiful poem of Elytis "The garden sees": "Those that the old man said to be "Australus, let us fear and open up the peace and the need to spread someplace." This is the last report I can make, in the fracture that the SYRIZA has reached with its governance. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u67	Mr. Socrates Vardakis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Javarra, it is good that poetry is relaxed, but forty-five years a major problem that the Greek people have been asking for, in fact, a solution and not a hostage, you have not been able to solve. Today comes a bill and we do not discuss constructively to find the weaknesses of this bill. There are weaknesses, but I would like to assure you that the Ministry's intention is to find solutions in the very near future for everything that is impossible from the implementation of this draft law at all times. Ladies and gentlemen, we must all agree on one thing that the problem of arbitrary construction has been employing the Greek state for many decades, as I said before forty years and is closely integrated, in the way that this state has been formed and formed. We can have hours to talk about cases of excessive arbitrage, unregulated partition of land by private individuals, about alteration of cities, about alteration of natural environment, about distortions that led to uncontrolled situations. We are coming today with a bill, which seeks not only to tackle the phenomenon of arbitrary construction in a holistic way, but aims to intervene in overall terms and to bring about balance. I have heard, in fact, these days from the Qualified Opposition to say that this bill is a faithful copy of previous laws, it does not introduce any innovation, instead it strengthens bureaucracy. You will allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to disagree. Over the last forty years, regulation and urban policies have been unable to control the dynamics of the arbitrary. That is why we have had this development even in the last fifteen years. So you can't talk about rational choices. Suppression was limited to collecting fines, thus extending them and increasing the problem. Urban policy on arbitrary construction has proved to be ineffective and precisely customer-friendly, because it has been taken on the basis of client fraud and the sole aim of collecting money. Contrary to the legislative efforts of recent years, which have mainly managed the result, our intervention is to heal the causes. Has there ever been an integrated tariff, a national register, the definition of a hayalus, boundary, watercourses, archaeological sites protected, natural beauty areas, organised social housing policy? Oh, no. So what exactly has been settled and what has been solved with previous laws? I should like to refer to Heraklion, which was mentioned by other colleagues, a city which is known as the 'autonomous city'. That cannot be called into question. This is a town, literally, with an arbitrary rise, even in recent years, because you have not been able to solve the problem. According to recent data from the TEE most square meters of arbitrary main areas are recorded in Thessaloniki and are 4.312.492.42 square meters, followed by Heraklion Crete with 2.380.404.28 square meters. So we are coming today and acknowledging that accumulated years of problems cannot be solved effectively, we are proposing an overall strategic planning of the area. We upload the forest maps, we promote the creation of a single body for the Land register, while the municipality's urban plans introduce a new way of urban planning for 100% of the land. The draft law introduces innovative processes, significant changes and organised construction of the site, but economic counter-incentives are also being created for arbitrary construction. I would remind you that in one year of the consultation, several important proposals have been put forward, which have largely been implemented. Tell me the relevant incident, where a ministry for two and a half three months took the operators' suggestions and carried out many of them. I will not deny, as I have said before, that there are weaknesses in this bill. But know that it is intended to solve these weaknesses also by applying the law. The new administrative structure, the Building Environment Observatory, is set up by the Central Observatory with a selective and supervisory role, which will fall under the General Secretariat of Spatial Planning and Urban Environment of the Ministry of Environment and Energy, Regional Observations at the headquarters of each region and Local Observatory by regional unity, old prefectures as regional bodies. A new institutional framework for the process of issuing and controlling building permits is being established. The institution of the transfer of a build-up factor and the provision of an environmental balance shall be activated by establishing a Bank for the Rights of Building and Public Areas. An Electronic Urban Identity is also created, as well as an Electronic Building Identity, and special categories of interest are laid down and rights granted. As far as building permits are concerned, the listing of a number of simple tasks which are not required is very important. Several citizens are now avoiding bureaucratic processes, but the services themselves are getting rid of such procedures. Ladies and gentlemen, we need a legislative framework, which will, from now on, design the space as a whole, taking into account the arbitrary ones, but above all, design the space so that the arbitrary ones can be prevented. The aim of these square measures is for the benefit of the public interest. It will shut thousands of families, which have been incapacitated for decades because of the political choice of the roussefy and the impossibility of political planning by governments that have passed, even today, in the status of arbitrary.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u69	Mrs Maria Theleritis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, before going to today's subject, I cannot comment on Mr Javarra's rhetoric, who told us to many people that they themselves created these war industries and provided the F-16, should today be maintained, unless we get a new agreement and so this agreement was in the context of a maintenance of previous agreements, where the country had concluded on their governments. I'm coming to the point now. It is clear that the state for many years has not been able to design the structured environment in a systematic way. This bill aims to intervene effectively in an integrated and democratic manner throughout the space. How do you do it? New structures, procedures and rules are being introduced. Its purpose is to overcome the unprecedented use of land and the existing misery in the environment. It tackles bureaucratic inclinations in licensing processes and, above all, creates space planning structures to prevent arbitrary and infractional behaviour. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know that the arbitrary construction in Greece, historically, is a phenomenon not only urban but also social, as it comes to addressing deficits in housing policies in our country and particularly housing needs. That is why how to deal with this phenomenon, this problem, should also be social with the parallel protection of the structured environment. Also, although previous governments have tried to solve the problem, we can say that this is constantly getting worse, gigantic, so that we have reached the beginning of 2017, to have one million statements arbitrary and we must not forget the difficulty of the concept of arbitrary construction. It is very wide, it includes many cases and existing legislation, unfortunately, has dealt with it fragmentary and unambiguously. We must also not forget that the previous governments had shown a lack of transparency and impunity in very heavy cases where we had an impact on the environmental balance. The most important, however, of all these interventions in the institutional framework of the previous governments is the lack of any mechanism for monitoring and controlling developments and monitoring urban planning, so that arbitrary building phenomena can be identified and then dealt with. But what is the difference in this bill, the difference in philosophy, that is, in relation to previous attempts to limit arbitrary construction? These are two basic features, which are attempting to respond to the pathogens of the previous system. The first is that there is a holistic approach to the regulation of the structured environment, because new provisions are being formulated, of course existing regulations are also being improved, but new administrative and control structures are being created. Also very important is that particular emphasis is placed on prevention, so that, in fact, there is no way of avoiding future infringements of the existing urban plan, but also of control and supervision of the sustainable protection of the space. In these contexts, therefore, an innovative structure is being created for the control of arbitrary construction, an exclusive permanent monitoring and control structure for the structured environment, the Observatory, which is decentralised, we would say, and is created at the three levels of administration of the country: first, the Ministry, where it has a more strategic role with executive and supervisory responsibilities, and it gathers elements of the structured environment. In other words, a strong central structure is set up at the central level to plan monitoring of urban planning. Secondly, in the region, which is responsible for monitoring and implementing the measures for the protection of the structured environment and - as the people involved in self-government used to say - the assignment of competence is accompanied by resources so that it can be implemented, that is, 25% of the fines for building up and maintaining the new arbitrary authorities, which are directed at the region, where they have been registered. The third, which is local, undertakes building permits, which is also responsible for providing 25% of the same category and the other 50% that is left, is attributed to the Green Fund for the so-called 'Environmental Balance Actions', i.e. free spaces, etc. In other words, this bill makes it possible to separate control services and licensing services - which are very important not to be in the same body, because you realise very well what this means - the coordination of actions at different geographical levels and the development of control mechanisms at the lowest level where it is able to deal with and directly with the phenomena of pathogens, delays in urban planning functions. The above together with a series of tools adopted, make this draft law innovative. With regard to the second part I mentioned, namely dealing with bureaucracy, we will see through the law by simplifying the issue of licences, if these procedures are met, by electronic issue of licences, the electronic identity of the building and the automatic issue of the licence in areas that have been acquired. So by these procedures and measures included in this bill, it is making an effective contribution to the fight against bureaucracy and to all kinds of claws that existed so far. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] But in addition to the e-mail identity and the identity of the building from which, as my colleagues have said, it seems that the life expectancy of the building, the control, etc. is very important to say that in the context of the promotion of social justice by the government, there is special protection for vulnerable groups, and indeed this protection does not have a horizontal treatment of fines but is differentiated by the vulnerability of groups and peoples promoting equality. So, ladies and gentlemen, to conclude, what will happen from now on? What is very important is that this bill provides for very strict procedures for the new arbitrary. This means that we can put an end to unregulated construction, because arbitrary operations are identified by the Observatory during the construction phase and there is provision for immediate demolition and with resources from the fines themselves which, especially when we talk about environmentally sensitive areas, are increased from 30% to 100% of the building's objective value.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u71	Mrs. Theleritis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u72	I shall conclude, Mr President. In conclusion, therefore, the aim of the bill is to fully record our country's housing stock, to further environmental and urban management, and finally to achieve an environmental balance that restores the burden of the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u73	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the educational program "Research and we are discussing Governor Ioannis Kapodistrias" which organizes the Foundation of the Parliament of twenty-four students and two educational companions from the First General School of Painters. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA Mr Xydakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u74	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, every bill has its political value, its political significance, and it will leave a print in the country, much more such bills as the one that are ambitious to put a order into an unrealistic situation, which has given many unpleasant results, imprints on the natural landscape, on the social fabric in the public area. But first I would like to make a few remarks, in what has been heard here about the other policy, which is not evolving within this House for this bill, about the visit of the Greek Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras, the White House and the United States. I would like to make an appeal just to see these major events in serious and sober terms. The contacts of the political leader of Greece, the Hellenic Republic and the leaders of the major states in the world only gains can be left to our country, much more to the seventh or eighth year of the crisis, which, apart from economic pain, social upset, political shock, has also brought diplomatic deportation. The country recovers diplomatic capital. Alexis Tsipras has met at two official meetings twice as different Presidents of the French Republic, twice Presidents of the United States, has visited China on an official visit, as has Russia on an official visit. Consider for the past 40 years the diplomatic activity of the Greek Prime Ministers, and I am not saying this, to praise the current Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras, but to see that in this particular historic phase that our country has been going through, in this historic adventure, he is moving for his country - and not for his staff at portfolio, to submit a CV day - to recover the country and the Greek people, who have used the years of crisis, respect, dignity, the place that he has to have and the place that he has to have. The profits, therefore, from any diplomatic activity by the Greek Prime Minister, are not appropriate for titles and lines on the videos listed by various politicians on "YouTube", to be advertised in these commons. It's not about super-headings in early cooking shows, it's not about yellow headlines. Diplomatic activity, large movements yield over time. They can take both five and ten and fifteen years to pay. The opening to China that began in the 2000s at Kostas Karamanlis is still in progress and still needs our attention, our attention, feedback and relocation at the political and economic context in question. Be more serious, more sober and when we judge large political meetings, relying on what we saw yesterday on television in the pre-agreed serious and strict positions of two national leaders, to think about it a second time, because we are teaching the Greek people with what we are saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u75	When you said "carbons the treasure", when Samaras went in 2013, it was fine!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u76	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u77	Please! I appeal to seriousness and sobriety. If you want to say the line of the day, it's your right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u78	Then you could say what you wanted!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u79	Mr. Xydakis, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u80	Such opposition does not offer any service to either the citizens or the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u81	Yeah, like you offered!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u82	He's a pheasant!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u83	You characterize yourself!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u84	With regard to two observations from the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, I would like to say this. He made an appeal, an insinuation of what "consistent left" means today. I don't know who can give us the definition of a consistent left, and if he can...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u85	History can tell.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u86	Only history can tell. But here we are writing this story as chronographers of our present and here we should be less ethic, less vague and more meditative. The left is a dynamic concept, which is defined from at least the 18th century to such a way and each time is defined and renovated in a new context with meditation and struggles. Let us now see the other remark on Article 24, which is constantly invoking the Supreme Court of Cassation and throwing the build-up coefficient, etc. Sustained. Article 24, says two other fundamental things in its review that the state, the state, is obliged to provide citizens with a Land register and a Forestry. How many decades did Greece not have a land register on its territory and how many decades and centuries passed without Forest? Now the Forest is starting. The log had started since the decade...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u87	We did something about it, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u88	Yeah, it's starting to work. A large proportion of the Greek territory has been established and operated and has been covered with forest maps. It's moving on, it's working. It wasn't working. We have been working on the register since the 1990s at great expense, with large funds, with European funds. It's still not complete. It moves forward or is close to the completion of the archaeological register for real estate and mobile monuments. It's going on and it's going to be over. To know the Greek citizen, the one who makes a shop, who makes a house, the investor, the Greek, the foreigner, where he can build. The Member States, laws and political practices and cultures are not free of virginity. Some have been, some have ruled, some have legislated. It is our turn to put this little bit of adjustment, reform, for mental changes. But we do. In very difficult historical and budgetary conditions, we have undertaken to go ahead with things that should have been solved since the 1970s, 1980s and 1990s. For this draft law, I hope that we all understand that it is also being promoted by another philosophy. He's trying to put order not only on construction, but also on development on another track, on another level, where growth will not only be based on the unregulated building activity that yes creates money traffic, yes, he does work on many jobs, but from one point to the next, and from one point to the next, arbitrary construction or abusive construction leaves a ugly print on both nature and attitudes in the economy itself. The arbitrary construction in the past was substantially protected or encouraged or tolerated. And we're not just talking about the family home. We are talking about the holiday settlements that were planting like fungi colonies everywhere around the territory, about the public spaces on which those who wanted, about the public spaces, about the beaches, which were in bad mess - go to the hot tourist areas to see - or about the thousands of public buildings which, by the 1970s or the 1980s, I think, were built without building permits. And we cannot claim that it unlawfuls the public, but we certainly do not have a complete record of permits, plans, so that we can proceed with renewals, etc. What I would like to appeal to the Minister is firstly, the first political objective is to change this profound corruption culture that governs the activity of building, which has altered the nature of the administration, especially locally. Secondly, they should be encouraged by other actions than the law, by the engineers and the Chamber of Technical Chambers to take responsibility, also to draw up, form, operate a body of Occupational Engineering which will be responsible. It is not only the state with these subordinated services to exercise effective control. To be able to motivate society to go to maturity, to see with respect the man-made environment and naturality and to understand that the entire radar, insecurity, currency, war conflicts of the past centuries that prompted the Greeks to have a unique way of saving the property, if they do, to do so on serious terms in order not to devaluate his property. A call for coordination of the Ministry of the Environment with the Ministry of Interior. Planning powers are in the regions and municipalities. Are they staffed? Can they be staffed? Can they have synergy with, say, a Corps of Accountants? In practice, in areas of high-building activity now that we are talking, at the time of the crisis, control is essentially nonexistent. Offices in tourist areas of high building activity are suboptimal or closed. Although it is not within its competence, it is typical and executive - it is part of the strategic planning - the Ministry of the Environment with the Ministry of the Interior to ensure that they are deployed. There are areas where there is building orgasm within the crisis and arbitrary rule. One example: In Mykonos there are still a thousand five hundred complaints about illegal structures. Not a single check has been made. The office closes in Mykonos. Mykonos, the model of tourist development, the ideal that will tow Greek tourism to expensive quality tourism, is at risk of being apart from "Las Vegas" and a corruption. He's in danger of being uncontrolled. Let the town offices be staffed, let us find control, because, like many other important laws that we are voting on here with a lot of discussion, with a lot of dialogue, with creative conflicts, these laws will also risk staying in drawers inapplicable, without mechanisms to supervise proper implementation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u89	We continue with Mr. Themistocles Mumulides from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by pointing out and welcome the positive climate, the climate of consensus within which this debate is being held for a very important bill. The government continues to legislate, covering gaps that have not been covered or modernised in Greek legislation for decades. We are talking today and in a few hours' time it will be the law of the state, the bill of control and protection of the structured environment. Therefore, this draft law regulates a series of arbitrariness and incontrovertibilitys of the past. This is a bill that creates scope for an improved landscape in the very sensitive area of the structured environment. Yesterday, the SYRIZA rapporteur, and other colleagues, were placed extensively and thoroughly on the advantages and virtues of the bill. I would particularly like to see an article which I would like to be particularly interested in, but I would like to mention two points. The Minister pointed it out yesterday. I just repeat them, because we have to create a reality picture. This means that we are overcoming bureaucracy. There are, therefore, two points which I mention, for example. The first is the separation of the licensing authority, namely the separation of the role played by the building from the control authority and I think it is a very important step. The second point, for example, is that the authorisation procedure is being simplified. Those who have entered the license suffering, when they previously could, know that this would take a very large number of months. Today, then, with this bill, in one month's time of depositing documents to the town, reconstruction can begin, with proper and safe controls to be carried out and followed. I shall now refer to Rule 147 of interest and the area that I represent. However, I am not alone in this because it concerns the area I represent, but because I think that this article also closes a historical period of long suffering for local communities. The article therefore refers to the possibility of adjusting the two relocations of the settlements of the Municipality of Amyntai and the Akreni of the Municipality of Kozani. These relocations of the two settlements come with a delay of many years as a political choice that justifies the communities of two afflicted by the mining activity of local communities. In these cases, that is to say in the case of relocations, if we had previously had sensitivities in relation to the functions of the societies, we should normally have the self-evident effect, in other words, if one decides to operate extractively in an area, the relocation should have taken precedence. So now we have been watching an area where for over forty years there has been a process of relocation - and many times evil in trying to make time for the company - through the operation of local societies. In other words, there are still local communities today - a great example is the last two communities - where mining activity is literally a few metres from people's lives. Of course, the nature, the earth, has come to create in the case of the Silvers its own version of the future. Quite simply, the human factor seemed not to be able to predict what nature always holds, so that we are in an urgent procedure. I say this because it is good when we legislate, that we are actually in favour of the benefit of society as a whole. In the case of the relocations of western Macedonia and especially of the Regional Unity of Kozani and Florina, if you see the legislative framework that applies to the operation of PPC, you will see that they give it some colonial options - choices. I say this because it is good to live in Greek society that many times the regions claim something more on their behalf, for their own future. We also often have to be sensitive to society as a whole, much more as a plenary, because some regions are clearly more unfair, even if they seem to have advantages, that is, if they have very high per capita income. So this is the reality of the region. The Government and PPC are therefore invited to complete the relocation cycle in the area. That's what Article 147 of this bill does. With the relocation of the Akrini and the Anargira, a historical cycle of arbitrary operation of PPC's previous governments and administrations closes many times. This should be credited to the important political choices made by this government. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] With Article 147 what is actually happening is that a significant circle, the cycle of relocations, is historically closed. With the Minister - whom we also thank as representatives of the region - to accept the timetable for the Akrini, it means that the cycle of relocations is historicly closed. I would hope in future that any relocation process will follow the process of self-evident, that is, first completion of the relocation and then mining activity. In closing this brief position, I will speak to the Minister for a few minutes. Dear Minister, since this bill speaks of arbitrary and arbitrary law, you are well aware of a criminal arbitrary that happens a few miles from the port of Lavrio. I am talking about the arbitrariness of the historic island of the Makronis. There this island is literally in the mercy of the winds and also in the mercy of the unconscious. What's going on, dear Minister, in Macronese is unprecedented. We're all responsible.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u91	On Sunday, the autopsy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u92	Sunday's the autopsy. We've done the autopsy a few days ago. Because we also had the opportunity to know what this island was like four, five, seven years ago, what we have to report to the Greek people and the National Parliament is that the arbitraryness there has hit red. Of course, I personally address you, knowing your sensitivity. I expect to see important initiatives for defending historical memory and defending sites of exile with important initiatives that do not cost money, but are important political options that we need as a society and as a National Representation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u93	Parliamentary spokesman from Potami, Mr Spyridon Dannelis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in itself an official visit by the Prime Minister of the country to the President of the United States is a positive event. And as a positive event it is reflected in the international press. It is also a good thing that the image of reflexive post-political anti-Americanism in the country is well established. It is good to remember that, as the great Freedom Venizelos said, in foreign policy there are no national laws, there are national interests. The main results of the visit, of course, will be seen in the near future, when we see how good words are transformed into works. This will also be the measure of the crisis of success or not of this visit. I think it's too early for mediocre conclusions synapses. Of course, anyone who expected that the American President would draw Erdogan's ear, in relation to Turkey's provocativeness in the Aegean, is naively overcoming its defence industry and needs. Without tension in the Aegean, why upgrade the F-16? However, how the 2.4 billion announced by President Trump becomes 1.1 billion from Mr Kammenos, we must of course see. A first debate in the Committee on Defence a couple of weeks ago, where the Minister referred to these amounts, but the picture was that we did not have the official response from the United States. So it is an issue that we have before us. Ladies and gentlemen, the division of powers in democracy gives the absolute power, of course, to its justice and officials to decide whether or not to be guilty of any defendant, according to the individual elements at their disposal and of course to their conscience. In the case of Herianna, the generalised sense is that there is an exhaustion of rigour on the part of judges, which is not justified by the evidence they have seen to date. And since the evidence is not convinced of its guilt in what is accused of, the society is born of suspicion and questioning. Because the basic principle of our legal system is the 'no guilty person until proven otherwise' and because social peace must be guaranteed, but also because the citizens' confidence in justice is not compromised, it is almost essential to provide more information on publicity which adequately explain and justify yesterday's decision of the Pentecost Court of Appeal. Only in this way can the prestige of justice be safeguarded, but also healed the trauma that appears to have been created in the public about the right. Ladies and gentlemen, let's go to our bill now. According to Aristotle: "The city as a field for the realisation of human needs, trends and purposes can only be the ultimate treaty of ending man, since within it all human abilities are united in the pursuit of bliss". We could in other words say that cities are built policy. And of course, judging by the aesthetics, the functionality of our cities, you understand that we have multiple and time-consuming problems. Today we are discussing a bill concerning our relationship with the structured environment, but also how we see the public space in general. The Greek cities show significant peculiarities, creating a urban landscape that generally deviates significantly from the European example. There was no doubt in the period between 1950 and 1980 that the main phase of urbanisation in Greece was completed. Most of the urban tissue we see in our day is the result of that period. Means such as land use, land planning, carrying capacity were, in many cases, unknown to the design and implementation of development, as it has been implemented in our country for many years. The extremely bureaucratic and complex process, which is needed for urban planning, with the demonstrable legislation and endless times needed to complete the individual steps, makes almost all the efforts of spatial planning and organisation of the area out of date and inapplicable. This, together with the deeply rooted culture of lawlessness and the certainty that the state's long-term tolerance is never seriously threatening the arbitrary construction, it has depreciated and undermined the structured environment in our country, as much as any other. In the 1970s and 1980s, the large 'bum' of the arbitrary people was the accumulation of capital, mainly from the Community's agricultural subsidies, and the captive tourists were mainly invested in building. The lack of urban planning leads to the teratogenicity of the arbitrary cities. Thus we have reached every surface of land to be viewed by the owners as built - up, where it is located. Let me remind you that the off-project construction is our patent, it's a Greek patent. This distortion is impressed on the perception of the Greek average and was fatal about the degradation of the Greek landscape. In fact, the Greek urban fabric is a mosaic, a glimpse, a set of fragmented sub-assemblys that have been formed by a multitude of personal baths of each owner, from which the legislator, architect, town planner, is completely absent, which would have as a criterion the organization of good quality of life for the wider social group. The closest to the concept of planning has been in the country for the entire time, it has been the gradual integrations in the town plan, which were indifferent, not only for the town's castings according to European standards, but also for the natural data of the areas concerned, terrain, torrentials, forest areas, etc. From there on, the cynicism of the political counter-compensation and clientele reaps the transaction and the relationship between the hostage, makes it easier for the state because it relieves it of the responsibility and the obligation to provide services, infrastructure and networks. The culture of arbitrary in Greece, as it concerns a large number of owners and given the extensive customerism and the relationship with the political system, demanded and claimed rights that legal owners often do not enjoy. Throughout the region we meet "cultural clubs", which are nothing but covert associations of arbitrary and often improper public land. And remember that legalization, regulation of arbitrariness, each time it was followed by a next generation of arbitrary ones giving birth to expectations and demands. Therefore, Minister, the key to the success of today's project will be not having a next generation of arbitrary ones. The credibility of this draft law and of course its effectiveness will be judged here. With regard to the issue of capital permits, one of the most painful outbreaks of corruption in the public sector and the training of engineers and owners, the big problem has always been the exhaustive bureaucracy, which closed down before the issue and, of course, the lack of control over the implementation of each building licence. It will be a wishful task in the current conditions, which are positive, to remove the interpersonal relationship between the service of interested parties and, of course, to move from the building licence to the essential control of the building of the buildings. Minister, I hope today's project will prove effective by removing a series of serious diseases in management and, of course, in the relationship between administration and society. Finally, I should like to make a reference to what Mr Mumulides has just mentioned. I think we all realise that it is a reproach for our democracy, for our state, but also for us all, tolerance to the fierce trespassers of the Macrones. A place of exile, which is today a sacred place for our democracy, cannot be left free of charge to every covetous and ruthless trespasser. So, apart from other cases similar to Greece, the Macronissos case acquires another weight and another symbolism. And we owe all those involved to take this matter seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr. Dannelly. Mr Athanasios Davakis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, any positive aspects of the draft law, which have been presented during the process, succeeds from the technical world, in thinking about the part to tackle the arbitrary construction that will replace the existing law 4178/2013. I will consult a note, which my friend, a fighter engineer, and I will then become a reader more than a speaker from the Step. So it says this note of a man in the technical world of the country, on whose backs this legislation will also be applied. In other words, the technical world of our country is being called upon to implement and carry out what we are doing here. That is, of course, the case for all the bills. It says, therefore, that this friend of mine, whose name is at the disposal of the Minister, that Law 4178/2013 has been satisfactorily valid four years with the great advantage that he has been judged constitutional by the Council of State in contrast to his predecessor, Law 4014/2011, who was judged unconstitutional. During this period, a large number of administrative acts, such as circulars, ministerial decisions, clarifications, have been issued, a thousand five hundred seventeen (1517) engineers' questions with corresponding political leadership returns have been submitted. All this composes the present situation, which is called for by the law you have brought to replace. One understands, my friend says, that after four years of validity of Law 4178/2013 and following the publication of a large number of ministerial decisions, circulars, documents, etc., a stable framework has been established for its implementation by engineers and public services. And it proposes that Law 4178/2013 should not be abolished, because this would automatically mean the withdrawal of all those regulatory acts - see, it has some basis - of circulars and documents mentioned above and which have now been assimilated by all those involved in real estate business groups - engineers, notaries, mortgages, tax officers, etc. - and public services too. It should be concluded that, if a new arbitrary construction law is published in full by abolishing Law 4178/2013, its proper application will be delayed until the publication of the respective regulatory acts, circulars, documents, without, of course, excluding any actions concerning the constitutionality of the new legislation. Uncertainty, insecurity and all fellow sinners. It should be stressed that on the basis of the text of the new law we have at our disposal, on the one hand, the single special fine is reduced in most cases, noting that the subtleness of the evil is very positive and reassuring for the citizens who wish to regulate their arbitrary interests and, on the other, the mechanical pay for the categories 4 and 5 arbitrary, i.e. for all arbitrary structures from 1983 until now, is multiplied by the treatment of the static adequacy study for all major constructions of S2 and above. In the vast majority of cases, the total cost to the citizen will be much higher than that to which the provisions of Law 4178/13 apply. Otherwise, if the new law eventually abolishes Law 4178, Minister - and here I would like your attention - it is proposed that a margin of some forty-five days should be given until the entry into force of the law, until 8 October 2017, with the corresponding extension of Law 4178, in which case, having the final text published, the citizen should, in cooperation with his engineer, the parameters, choose to either join the Law 4178 or wait for the opening of the new law, if the provisions of that law on his case are more favourable. In addition, in this period technical software companies will be able to adapt their programmes to the new data without creating a gap on the market. And engineers, as well as other professional groups, such as notaries, will be able to study the new provisions in depth and guide everyone concerned. There are a few comments which I considered appropriate, Minister, to communicate from the Step. They may be useful. I will submit this memorandum to the Minutes, so that the Services, your colleagues and you can formulate a better opinion. [[At this point the Member, Mr Athanasios Davakis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned memorandum, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In conclusion, I would like to dwell on something that has been said by you this morning that you have invoked New Democracy, namely Mr Skreka, and I am speaking about whether - or not you said so - we want to upgrade the F-16. But it is clear, Minister, that we, because we want to upgrade the F-16, do not trust your Government and especially your relevant Minister, Mr Kammenos, who, for two and a half years, has been at the helm of the Ministry of National Defence, whatever file and issue he has handled, has no measurable effect. What has been said about upgrading, to all of us is asking us the following questions: Until now - Mr Danellis said before - in the relevant Committee on Armaments, the Minister told us about 1 billion to cost this upgrading and is prepared by our country, through the state budget, to make available. This is where we hear about 2.4 billion. These 2.4 billion means that either the number of upgraded aircraft will be reduced or military aid will be provided by the United States of America. Either way, something that the committee does not know - and that is why I ask the Committee on Armaments to convene once the Minister for National Defence is back to inform us - nor any of the other colleagues are aware of this. Also, so far all the relevant US institutional texts for 2018, budgets and so on, do not indicate anywhere the issues that can cover this case, beyond USD 1 billion. And I'm closing up with the Souda thing. What was mentioned by both the President of America and the Prime Minister for strong will on both sides for the Souda Agreement to proceed, we knew them before going to America and Mr Tsipras and Mr Kammenos. The question is, when this extension of the Souda lease agreement comes, a strategic region of importance for our country, will the Prime Minister be able to present this agreement in plenary and will be able to pervert the obsessions and - I would say - ideological sufferings of his colleagues on the extension of this agreement? These are the essential questions and the other things you ask us in your rhetoric and in the calm way, I would say, and a very large look, Minister, not to us. We, in fact, as a New Democracy and as a party, have shown that for all three branches of the Armed Forces, we know how to work, I would say, more seriously, responsibility and modesty, to have concrete results, which is not the case with this political leadership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u97	Mr Georgios Kasapidis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, interpreting the draft law 'Control and protection of the structured environment' and on the basis of the situation which the current government is called upon to face with all these arbitrary decades since it was gigantic and socialized - one would say - we can conclude that there has been no control over the unstructured environment and that there has been no protection, and that is why we have had the phenomena of the phenomena of the fires, the trespasses and all that, unfortunately, no government has tackled so as to stop the phenomenon and prevent it. We are witnessing all these years that, usually before the elections, arbitrary and collectibles are legitimised for the state, but also to satisfy the demands of all these illegal people who saw such deeds catch a place. So this has been an example to be imitated and the phenomenon has increased, with the value of all these illegalities, translated into arbitrary and arbitrary buildings, touching public debt. I say this because I would like to point out and draw your attention to a single objective which has not been heard as much as I think it should have been: there is no end to this phenomenon, Minister. All these years, with the exception of few exceptions where some demolitions have taken place, some drastic interventions to stop this phenomenon, and even in situations which were deafening, from the saints to the forest, we have seen a magnificent building. I'm not talking about poverty. Suppose some wanted to protect the poor illegals, set a splendid field of glory for the rich illegals, who unfortunately altered our country's housing and natural environment. In fact, through impunity, the phenomenon of corruption has been gnawed. I remember that before the 2004 elections we were saying that a service that was within the first three corrupters in the country was town planning along with forestry. The other two were the taxes and hospitals. I do not know whether these services have been cleaned up all this time and if, on your day, you have taken effective measures against corruption, which is the scourge and disease that leads to such phenomena that are dealt with in your bill. The rapporteur and our parliamentary representative have pointed out the weaknesses of the bill, but also its positive elements, which is why we are also working with the government. We can also take examples from abroad, not only from European territory, but also from global society, from successful examples of countries that have solved this problem right from the outset with proper compliance with legislation. I'm going to set an example and close with it. It is the example of Australia, which I saw on a recent trip to the far continent. In in-depth conversations I had with the family, I was given some positive examples to take them to Greece, to solve problems like what we are discussing. If someone outlaws houses, not only are they imposing a heavy fine on him, but they are also demolishing the illegal building, that is to say, it is twice the damage and it is already being made public, precisely to think very much about the next aspiring to take such actions. Mr Minister, I have also asked for the floor to refer to the amendment I tabled to you. I would like to express my satisfaction at the acceptance that you accepted it on the relocation of the Coast. The settlement of Akrini and the settlement of Anargira, one in Kosani and the other in the Prefecture of Florina, has been afflicted by PPC's activities for decades. Extraordinaryly, from events of the last six months the settlement of the Anargyra is to be relocated. However, the people of the settlement of the Akrini are also entitled to the same right. If the life of the people of the Silvers is threatened on grounds of soil stagnation, so is the health and life of the inhabitants of the Occupied Territories on grounds of environmental pollution. You have visited the area well, you know the parties, so you have done well and set this timetable for the completion of the plan by PPC for the preparation of the expropriation. Already in my previous question, your predecessor, Mr Skourletis, said he had tabled the relocation plan. So it remains the plan of expropriation, for which, Minister, I would ask you with the same positive attitude as you have faced this request and with other colleagues from the Assent - we are unanimous in the Kozani Prefecture - with the same positive attitude as to accepting and dealing with the adoption of the Presidential Decree immediately after the six months that PPC will have to table this project in order to proceed with these procedures. Because I fear that the validity of the law passed in 2011 ends in 2021. There were plans to make all these processes of relocation and expropriation of these settlements, but we arrived in 2017 and almost none of them has been done, except the ones I mentioned before. And if it took six years to make the relocation plans, how many more years will it take to make the plans of expropriation? That is why you did well and you set this time-limit, just like we asked for it. I do not know if we have time left for these relocations to be implemented, because if the 2011 Act is in force, then there will be no relocation. So I welcome your position and I am pleased that even in plenary it seems that the Minister is hearing positive proposals and adopting them. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr. Kasapidis. I would like to inform the House that two other Members are missing and that the list of speakers is closed and the interventions of the parliamentary representatives are closed. So there will be a second round of speakers' speeches and the request from the Bureau is - we know that everyone will obviously want - to say that those of the rapporteurs want their intention to have a second word, so that we too have an overall picture. Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr President. I say we land a little, because I am patient to hear comments - the right of everyone - about the Prime Minister's trip to the United States. I would like to remind those who have a weak memory that there are three million refugees or economic immigrants in Turkey in the territory of Turkey. Three million! Not a hundred or two thousand. I'm talking more about the respecter of me, Mr. Davaki. Panos Kammenos was the first to have NATO in the Aegean. Does anyone have any objections that FRONTEX is currently patrolling? Does anyone object that the President of the Independent Greeks sent ten cases to the prosecutor and is still waiting? Does anyone object to this being the one who gave a list of too many journalists who were based on the CEDEFOP'rectorium'? Does anyone object to the politician who raised the issue of the CDS, the country's famous bankruptcy in the Post Bank? I think not. I say that because it's easy to criticize. It's hard to make real politics. There is no need for Kammen from my defense, but I consider it my duty, as he referred to it to me personally, Mr Davakis. I would also like to refer to two reports that have been forgotten in here these days. I will repeat a story because I have heard you say 'dream', 'the economy is not going well', 'it is your dream', something like that. Do you know when the National Bank had to go out on the markets? Does anyone know how to tell me? So let's look into it. So I'm telling you that five days ago the National Bank followed by the other three banks went out for four hours. He calculated interest rate at 3.1%. The interest rate was down to 2.6%. He only asked for 500 million. She was offered 2 billion. She took 750 million for her liquidity. Again: Do you know when the National Bank had to leave? So ask. Is this a summer night dream? This news was not written anywhere. In change, in finance, and nothing else. Is it a tangible proof that something has changed in Greek reality? I say yes. I want to remind you of a second story that was also silenced. Why? I don't know. It's the murder of a Maltese journalist on Monday afternoon. Do you know what a scandal that involved the President of Malta, two senior advisers and his wife with passports paid by Azerbaijan? Maltese journalist was murdered. Does the meetings remind you of something about the Panama Papers? I don't want to be a bad guy right now, nor do I want to go back to the past. What line is it about friends of which Prime Minister? I'm hanging up. This story didn't even sound. That's all about the summer night dream. I know Lagard didn't ask for any new measures. I know that everyone takes given the country's exit next August from the memos. No one triumphed. I've learned to leave nothing. I personally have spoken many times about one third of the Greeks who are doomed to poverty. I'm not expecting Eurostat. I know. They're the people who killed themselves who went to the dumpsters. This third, this government since it broke into has fallen upon it to reduce it and help it. And that's our difference. I'll remind you again, and I'll tell you again how many billions have come in and where they came in. ‘DIE WELT’ at the beginning of 2015: 800 billion. You've been working the previous governments for two hundred families. That's the story. Is Minister Stathakis supposed to tell you that we received a country where all the Greeks had lost one quarter of their assets? Didn't you remember the numbers? That 120% of GDP reached 180%? Unemployment at 27%? It's unpleasant, but I have to say it. And the 325 billion that we loaded? Debt country we've received. That's all for the story. Now we're going to today. In the bill. In the committees, with great comfort, the New Democracy says "it is unnecessary, we have done it all. What are you bringing in the bill?’ First of all, I should like to salute the low tone in the bill. And the Democratic Compact with great comfort, and she says, "We have already legislated. You work on our own laws." Yeah? Let's see what the reality is. The only country in the European Union that did not have a register. Is that what you did? Did this government have to come in to get the forest maps in? She had to come in, for the first time, after many years, to see if anything needed. First of all, no one triumphs, no one says that with a bill, problems will be solved on the subject of the bill. For God's sake. It's a hard part. And here I don't bless my beards. The largest corruption farms were pamphlets in hospitals, towns, tax exemptions. I don't want to be a bad guy. Are they going to be solved at once? Oh, no. It's going to be a classroom, though. Can I say something? What did we have? We're here to build up the wave. The arbitrary construction has spent the last three to four decades. Inside the woods we saw arbitraryly from morning till night. And she wouldn't move a leaf. Give him some modifications and he goes by saying. Shouldn't something be done about it? I would simply like to say this: is it wrong that forest maps have recently ended and are still asking for an extension? He's got a lot of extensions, of course. Is it a bad thing that the register is on the way? Is it bad? Because I know at Xylokastro that the mayor knows which way to open, where to build, that is, transfers all this history to the municipalities from 100% of the country's territory. Is these things wrong? One more thing. For the first time, the authorisation procedure is separated from the audit. Time-consuming procedures shall be simplified. Is the problem solved definitively? Oh, no. But it is a positive step. It is very positive that licensing should be removed from bureaucracy, that it should go ahead and that control should be carried out at the same time. Did you hear the observers? In all the countries of the European Union there are. What happened? What did you do? Nothing. It's a very important innovation for me, which will give another breath. And where are the observatories going? At regional level. That's where the thing hurts. I do not know, as Minister from Athens, what is going on in Grevena or what is happening in Kalamata. But the mayor knows. And most importantly, he knows there are reactions, because some have to pay. Electronic building ID. You guys didn't do it. There had been some laws, etc. and we were taking it back and back, as was done with cash machines, as was the case with plastic money, as was done with a one-stop service, as was the case with the electronic signature. Why? Entrepreneurship of decades in all the countries of the European Union. It is very important and it is not just about new buildings. It concerns and public spaces, large buildings or public meeting areas and gradually integrates the entire building stock of the country at the transfer stage without any charge of most households. What do I mean? The arbitrary construction will stop? I think it will be limited. The barrier, the block, in July 2011 is very important if you see what legislation it introduces. It will be much thought of someone protecting an arbitrary that took place after 2011. He will think about it very much, unlike what has happened before 2011. It's not bad. A lot of people say it's for voters, etc. Oh, no. That's how it had to be. It facilitates social groups, which do not have, enables more doses, integrates some in a nice and legitimate way. For when I was traveling to Germany, Copenhagen, Amsterdam, I was surprised to see incredible buildings. And I say, what happened here? These choices have been made for thirty years. They're coming to us a little late. I heard my colleague Nikos Xydakis talking about Mykonos and he's a little right. On the other hand, both Santorini and Mykonos and the old town of Rhodes are tangible examples. Where you don't insult the image and respect certain rules, we see what development these countries are giving, with the reservations Nikos Xydakis said, right and we have to see them. I believed and believe - and you know that very well - that building is currently suffering. After the economic crisis, now, it slowly begins and comes up cowards - cowards. I believe that this bill gives impetus to growth, frees forces. The construction must be legally restored. Finally, I would like to make a request because I know that there are too many shops, Minister, with the bank seats, I want you to see this for two years again. It's about a lot of people. Elias Cameros is not the only MEP who has this viewpoint. We have too many of us, and I ask you as a favor, to see the issue of the bank seats again because it concerns too many shops. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u101	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty students and students and two educational attendants from the High School of Megalopolis Arcadias. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres, Mr Megalomustakas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u102	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I will also make a reference to the Prime Minister's visit to the United States of America at the beginning of my position. I do not disagree with this visit, as it does not bother me or find me opposed to the agreement he has made on upgrading our aircraft. It is very important to develop our equipment, as we see what our neighbouring country is doing and what developments are. However, what bothers me is diplomacy. It is a very important place for a country and the diplomatic plan of each government is very important. It is a prerequisite, of course, that there should be a diplomatic plan. I do not know whether this was the case in the government, as we saw that the statements made by the Prime Minister, before the current planet was elected, were unfortunate - if anything - and they should not be thrown out of the mouth of a Prime Minister and indeed of Greece, which we know what its relations with America are and what our need for investment is. Investments in Greece are better off. Who doesn't want them? Indeed, it is a new account of most politicians that they are an integral part. We finally got it. And finally, we saw at least what the right path is. So it is very important before we make some statements, in particular, in the diplomatic area, to dive our language into logic and to have second thoughts. Let's go quickly to the bill, as we have some comments. It's a bill, which initially doesn't think we're opposed. It is in the right direction, as it is trying to regulate a very serious problem, for which it is not your fault, of course. All the previous have allowed these urban disgraces to happen, as this picture, which our country has in terms of its settlement and planning and its urban system, I do not know if there is any other civilized country, because I consider Greece to be a civilised and developed country. However, there are some points that I do not know if they will allow us to vote in favour of, and I will mention them in my position. Another thing I would like to add before entering the bill is that Greece is currently in the situation, which does not want the beginning of the solutions, wants final solutions. In fact, people no longer want to hear that we are starting to give a solution to the problem, that the previous people have done nothing and we are doing something. We don't want you to do anything. We want a definitive solution to be given, and not only to us as a Centro Association, but also to the whole world, to all the citizens who are watching us - those who are watching us - because, unfortunately, these behaviours have led the world to depreciate the political scene. Well, you bring in a bill, which we said would clear up the blurred landscape of arbitrary settlement, but we don't think it will do it absolutely. It is four years after Law 4178/2013 and two and a half years after you took over power. So you are trying to deal with late, without introducing something innovative, a problem that has been arousing Greek society for many years now and all you can do is come to put your own port in a vicious circle. Indeed, you do so in a way of amateur, if you allow, because there is absolutely no rule, and there should be no rules that will help to resolve this problem definitively. Also, one more thing I would like to add to my position, which strengthens the cumbersome nature of the bill, is that it will require over fifty presidential decrees and ministerial decisions. It's unthinkable that this is happening. The number is huge and we must answer and answer, above all, a simple question about when the law will be implemented. We have seen that such procedures are too late and I am not sure you will. You also leave the legislature - not only with this bill, but with many bills that you bring - important issues and issues, defying Article 43 of the Constitution, on presidential decrees and ministerial decisions. It's something that our country doesn't need right now. We want final solutions, which will not contain any suspicion that the Minister did what he wanted, without any control or anything like that. I do not blame you, but the tactics and strategy you are following. We would also like to know the timetable for the publication of all of this, so that we can see whether this programme is effective or not. We also believe that the continuous changes - of 2009, of 2011, of 2013 and now, today, are affecting the legal certainty of citizens and also creating issues, particularly in legal acts concerning the ownership of land and property. For the Central Association, the arrangements for the settlement of arbitrari persons should, as I said at the outset, be final and take place before the transfer or other property law. In other words, before the transfer, the engineer will have to produce a certificate of legality and where arbitrariness occurs there will be a fine. And in the event of major arbitrages, much greater fines or penalties must be subjected to, so that the equation between these major infringements and minor infringements is not created, as we have seen too many times to circumvent legality, we have seen buildings on the beaches, villas in forests. It is something we do not want to continue and there must be strict sanctions for these cases. The Centro Association is sceptical about demolition, as it is the tolerance of the state that has created the problem that we have today. We cannot break down half of Greece, because almost all or half Greek properties have some arbitrary effect. It is an extreme solution and we must look with a spirit of leniency to the citizen in each case. We also believe that this bill repeats some of the provisions of previous Law 4178, as it has left some of its provisions inactive in order to present them now as something new, something innovative. In fact, we are seeing a stitch of provisions that has come today with some CFDs, which should have been voted on many years ago, such as the one that defines the electronic issue of building permits, which had already been launched by the previous law. However, the main JAP, which should have been issued in accordance with Law 4178, is the one which would have laid down the details necessary for the handling of submissions made under previous provisions and the cases in which a procedure for corrections or reimbursement of wrongly paid infringements is in place. Ladies and gentlemen, this is indeed about thousands of citizens. We should give a solution to them, and they should not wait another five years, as they have expected so far, as Article 104 of this bill does not change anything for them, for this injustice that has been suffered over the last five years. In particular, Article 104 does not include procedures which have been frozen, but only attempts to proceed with procedures relating to the previous law or procedures, which the person concerned paid a fine, because he had been arbitrary and then initiated the legalisation procedure. It is therefore clear that the new regulation abolishes the possibility of returning to thousands of our fellow citizens, and that is something that we cannot accept. Also, the other thing we do not know if this article will allow it to happen is that it will also need to be done here. If it's another five years, then we don't see that law. Furthermore, we also stress that the institutions should respect the time limits laid down by the new law for examining administrative appeals and arbitrary and building permits. In this context, we note that Articles 17 and 23 of the new law provide for the corresponding exclusive deadlines for examining arbitrary appeals and building permits for appeal committees in each regional unit and for regional councils on urban and disputes. We remind you that even with the previous law, the SYSTEMs considered appeals as a matter of priority and never had a chance and always had a delay. We hope that nothing similar will happen. In any event, it is necessary to examine appeals against the finding of arbitrary and built-up licences in the short term. And if you are wondering how this bill could give a definitive solution to the problem, it is obvious that the completion of the National Stock Exchange and forest maps is two of the unconditional ones. We cannot talk about a solution unless we regulate these issues too. We have heard you say carefully that these will also be regulated, that the previous ones have done nothing. But only then do you have the right to talk about a definitive solution to the problem. We would therefore like a more specific timetable for knowing where we are heading. Because no one is going to come to invest, if they need to get into a suffering of judicial appeals and disputes. We have too many examples of this. You know that, too. And we must finally take the reforms that they need rather than measures on measures and charges for citizens with taxes. And since we are not definitively solving the problem - as we believe - you are asking us another question. Why, is there no report by the General Accounting Office of the State with accurate data? How long does it take for that to happen? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need some time, Mr. President. Some new structures are also being created. We do not know whether these structures will work as they should, as we have seen that the towns are already understaffed. There is no proper staff to meet the obligations and we fear there will be a heavy shape with these new structures, which are difficult, dysfunctional and inefficient. We do not want to believe that you are doing so to help your own people and to follow the practice of the former, creating and setting up a party state. However, we will monitor how it will be in their application in all these provisions. Another problem that we see is being created through this bill is under Article 52. You create the energy identity of buildings. We also asked you a question. We proposed that this financial burden be borne by the state, as we know what the Greek people are suffering this day. You can offset him with HISPHA, or define some engineers with a project contract, so that the burden is not borne by the citizens. We've got enough to carry up so far. I don't want to abuse my time. I do not like the fact that there are so many responsibilities that come to the Minister through ministerial decisions. Not for this Minister, but for the process and the tactics you use. We are in favour of all the moves that help to strengthen the protection of citizens. We are in favour of all those who give a boost to confidence, which must be created between the citizens and the state. We cannot, however, support something, which, perhaps, is even a possibility of maintaining the rotten system that has brought us up here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u103	Mr Eleftherios Aeggenakis has the floor from New Democracy, which is the last speaker on the list. Immediately afterwards, the words of special speakers and rapporteurs will begin.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u104	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will start with a comment on Mr Tsipras' journey to America. Let us remind you that our President, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, wished the Prime Minister good luck on Monday morning and expressed the hope that, for the sake of our country, he could make use of the rare opportunity offered to Greece and to himself. In fact, we have mentioned - and I would remind you - four points of unique opportunity: a long-standing agreement on the Souda base and the strengthening of defence cooperation. A roadmap of strategic relations, with emphasis on attracting specific investments. The aim of the US leadership's commitments on our national issues concerning Turkey, Cyprus, Skopje, immigration. And finally, to the Greeks in America we must recognise the essential role and reason in developments in the present and future of our mother country and substantially strengthen our relationship with them. As we have seen so far, however, the only sure thing is that it has closed a high-cost agreement to upgrade Greek F-16, an agreement that will cost the Greek economy EUR 2.4 billion in return - has managed to get - vague promises of support. Negotiations with the hand of Tsipras, the Prime Minister of Taxes. At the same time, ELSTAT yesterday strongly confirmed the Prime Minister of the recession. Two years, SYRIZA, two years of recession. You received from the government of Samaras economy in development, you led households and businesses to new debts. The Greeks today owe EUR 125 billion in taxes and contributions. Thousands of pensioners do not receive the right to pensions and new measures are provided for in the budget to remove 1.9 billion from Greek households. The more you apply the high-tax policy, the more the dead ends for the Greeks. Really, Minister, what is the feasibility of today's bill? What kind of problems, really, is he going to deal with? The issues of arbitrary construction, the licensing and construction process and the identity of the buildings have been addressed by Law 4178/2013, which created a single institutional framework for all these issues. All you had to do was apply existing legislation and that's the truth. Instead, you chose to bring in another bill to cover your inability, but most of all your inadequacy. Instead of dealing with the real problems of the Greek people, who suffer from your dead-end policies, you bring new laws to cover your Government's non-existence and, of course, irresponsibility, to cover the Prime Minister of misery, to cover the Prime Minister of Taxes, to cover the Prime Minister of the 360 euro generation. What is your legislative initiative for the unemployed and the reduction of unemployment, for example, for thousands of scientists leaving the country, for students who do not even have books today and follow their courses in places that are an asylum and illegality? For the ENVY, who remains - despite your promises - for his abolition? For the employees and pensioners, who fail to meet the unfavourable taxes and the high costs? For most of the three hundred thousand pensioners, who expect a pension and a single pension and who are still pending? For the free professionals, who suffer so that they can cope with overtaxation? For small and medium-sized enterprises, fighting for their survival? What about the tax exhaustion and internal lending, since it is obvious that Greek citizens' burden-saving capacity is depleted? And since, Minister, the government has given you solutions to all these problems, you said to deal with gender change at the age of 15, even with cannabis and soon with changing the road traffic code. They will pay, announced Mr. Spirtzis, fines the citizens for violating the COK, depending on their income. The poor, and above all the tax-raisers, are all aware that they will be in red, without paying or paying a smaller fine. The next stage, really, what's it gonna be? The imposition of penalties for the Penal Code according to income? Why really don't you do something similar with this bill, too, to pay for arbitrary incomes? Of course, we're joking and we don't want that to happen! It is clear, Minister, that your government's priorities are clear and completely wrong. Minister, with the bill you are bringing, strengthening and increasing the bureaucratic procedures, the involvement of public administration in the process either of issuing building permits or of resolving urban issues, by creating this even more complex pyramid of councils and committees. In essence, that is to say, a demonic system is being created, whose main results will be the increase in suffering, waiting times and costs for the citizens, and, secondly, the failure of the administration to carry out effective controls, due to overlapping and many committees and many bodies involved. But let me turn to something else: you are referring to the regulation of doses, which is provided for in the draft law. But who are you trying to fool? The increase in the number of doses is nothing new. There was already a large number of doses planned and in Law 4178/2013, which, of course, you do not apply. Unless you refer to the changes that occur mainly in the case of fines. However, this could be done, Mr Minister, with a simple amendment, in any other bill from your Ministry. It is simply - very clearly and honestly - that is another communication argument to justify this draft law. This is another desperate attempt to turn people's interest away from the real problems they face. Promise a reduction in paradoxical and fines, when you at the same time increase procedures - so cost and time - you increase queues and services - and, of course, the cost of issuing a building licence or resolving town-based issues means and costs at the end - at the same time, in the pocket of the person concerned - when you have at the same time led the market and the taxpayers to a real dead end, due to overtaxation and your revolutionary negotiation tactics. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like two more minutes, Mr President. However, there is also an additional injustice for citizens: the reduction of fines only concerns those who have been delayed and who will make use of the new law, while unfair to our fellow citizens, who have trusted the state and have joined the regulations of the current law, Law 4178. So there are two measures and two standards for citizens. Thus, the citizens who have already made sure that they are included in the same infringement and under the same conditions will pay more money than those who join this draft law. We in the New Democracy have a proposal that regulates overall and gives substantial solutions to the issues of building, spatial planning and, more generally, real estate. We emphasise real estate, offering strong tax incentives to those who choose Greece as a place of tax residence, but on condition that they have acquired real estate in our country. At this point, I would like to focus on the issue of the property market. It is well known to all of us that the housing stock in our country is old and above all, without maintenance, and as a result it loses its value at a rapid rate. This has to stop. Our intention, the New Democracy's intention when it comes to ruling the place, is to give brave incentives to renovate the great stock of the old buildings, become greener and environmentally friendly, to make our cities and villages beautiful, to increase the wealth of the Greeks. In addition to the reduction of the ENPIA, we are proposing to suspend VAT on building activities for three years and to simplify, through our proposals, the process of transferring real estate. At the same time, it is our intention to provide a tax deduction of 40% of the expenditure, which the owner paid for operational, aesthetic and, above all, energy upgrading, maintenance and use of existing dwellings with all legal documents.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u105	Mr. Ausgekis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u106	I'm closing, Mr. President. It is equally an important issue, which concerns the structured environment, spatial planning. Our country today urgently needs a new spatial planning plan. It is not possible for important investment projects to be deaf and vulnerable to any recourse to the Council of State because there is no organised spatial planning for tourism, for the structured environment, for development. Your draft today confirms your overall government action. You don't know, you don't want to, of course you can. Stop tearing down everything with labor and hard work has been built up so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr. Ausgeakis. We enter the cycle of the seconds of special speakers, the first of whom Mr Amyras from Potami. We're going on the other hand. Here, Mr. Amyras, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be much shorter. I want to tell you this, in relation to the regulations on arbitrary arrangements: I have two red lines here - to say so - which I cannot pass. The first is that those who are now subject to regulation for their arbitrary schemes will pay a fine lower than those that were consistent, had been set up and paid the fines. That's the first thing. It's a red line. We cannot have two-class citizens and it cannot always be rewarded by the last one. A second issue is Article 106(1)(b). The fact that they are regulated arbitraryly, whose building permits were cancelled by the competent administrative court, i.e. by irrevocable judgment, is a second red line. So we as a Potami, all the provisions of the articles on arbitrary settlement, and all these issues will be voted against. Also, for the amendment, which has been last debated, on the tables, I would like to say this: I disagree vertically with this amendment and its content for two main reasons. The first reason is...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u109	I didn't accept her.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u110	You didn't accept her. That's good. However, the first reason, for history, is that the municipal councils of the municipalities decide, not the law for each municipality and every square. And secondly, the squares and pedestrians and pedestrians can finally be filled with tables and, especially here, in Athens, without any room to pass. This, of course, is a Kamine project. And I conclude by telling you that various other arrangements, such as the Observatory of the Structured Environment, are positive and we will vote in favour of them. As far as the other amendments, the ministers, are concerned, we will vote in favour, as I said yesterday, only on the amendment on Strate. For the Members of Parliament, I will tell you at the time of the vote. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u111	Thank you to Mr Amyras and to the economy of time. Mr Saridis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u112	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Central Association has stated its intention to vote 'the present' in today's bill. If we look at its provisions, we have reached three undeniable conclusions, on which we have established this decision. Firstly, the draft law actually sets the right targets and therefore moves in the right direction, as we usually say in these cases. Secondly, the way in which the bill provides for the government to pursue these objectives is not sufficiently described and convincing by using persuasive arguments. On the contrary, it presupposes the adoption of a large number of relevant ministerial decisions and presidential decrees, which precedes us negative, as experience has shown us that when the legislator leaves the clarification of issues of substance and content to the executive, the bureaucracy, which all citizens are finally paying for, time and money, is favoured and increased. Thirdly, the government continues to legislate, stirring up and confusing what is useless, self-evident with arbitrary, incomprehensible and sustainable. A good example, illustrating the truth of what we are claiming, is the course followed by the Ministerial Amendment No 1269 and a special number 135, which was entitled ‘Amendment of planning legislation and amendment of provisions of Law 4001/2011’. This amendment broke into two essential elements and was incorporated into two articles: 148 and 149. With its first article, within eight paragraphs, it deals with very important problems, for which we are struggling with, for example, the extension of the validity of old building permits by the end of the year, the clarification of expropriation issues, the extension of cemeteries, the renewal of three whole years of the deadline for building partnerships to complete infrastructure projects. All these important points were divided into eight paragraphs of an amendment. In the same amendment, in its second article, to what was incorporated as Article 149 after the splitting up of this amendment and its inclusion in the bill, you are dealing with the famous Energy Regulatory Authority and, indeed, you are concerned in such a way that it is not justified, on the basis of the left-wing ideas, which you claim to be a political area. The provisions of Article 149 increase the responsibilities of the President of the RAE and strengthen its resources. We in the Central Association wondered: what changed since SYRIZA, as a government in April 2015, accused RAE of turning into a supergovernment that was very often serving private interests? The General Accounting Office of the State informs us that this legislative initiative gives you an increase in expenditure to meet the needs of this independent authority. But you have not explained to us where you support your optimism that you will be able to resolve the problems of two years ago with the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 5 of the second article of an amendment, which you so emphatically identified, so strongly protesting. Ladies and gentlemen, the four ministerial amendments were accepted by the Minister responsible and followed by the division and their incorporation into the bill. This way of legislating is not right, it does not help citizens to be informed and responsible to express their opinion as well. We are not convinced that the legislator only seeks to protect and safeguard the public interest. The bad way of legislating poisons democracy and strengthens the suspicion of citizens, leaving them exposed to the rhetoric of populism and racism. How are we going to explain to plenary tomorrow, tomorrow, the Members of Parliament, who are responsible for participating in the critical Committee on Equipment, the fact that they will come here for the first time in this House, a bill containing a compensatory benefit contract? There is, therefore, a Member of Parliament who really understands what it means to our country that we will have to make the state law a compensatory benefit contract? I am sure you have no idea what we're talking about, just as I'm sure you continue to promise the citizens that you will reduce military service. That too is unacceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr. Saridis. I would like to address the rapporteurs and the other speakers who have not spoken so far. He called for Mr Constantopoulos to be promoted, because it is an ongoing process of the Democratic Reconciliation Parliamentary Group. Are there any objections?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u114	The House agrees. Mr. Constantopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u115	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the structured environment is closed. As I pointed out, it is a bill which repeats regulations based on our own legislation of PASOK and tries, even late, to solve problems. As the Head of the Democratic Partnership for Energy and the Environment, Mr Maniotis, yesterday in his speech, the government has made huge mistakes, causing great delays, so that the country's wider urban planning is not promoted. We, Minister, have set out in detail our proposals and comments on the draft law. However, I would like to refer to some of the individual regulations, but also to amendments, such as the councils and committees provided for in the bill. It has not been clarified, Minister, why their members have different terms and not all of them, as would be reasonable and expected. With regard to Article 39 on topographical specifications, we have great tolerance here, from 5% to 10%, in the divergences in the plans envisaged. This will create a huge problem, I would say, on the market. We propose, even at the very last moment, that a 2 to 3% deviation should be tolerated. With regard to the landfill, the bill provides for the law to be subject to the law by paying an infringement of EUR 300. Priority for all of us, Minister, is for the stable facilities to settle and meet the legitimate standards. However, if we really want to solve the problems of farmers, particularly the problem of stacking facilities, what is needed is to simplify their licensing procedures. The activity of the farmer is specific and you know it very well. So the arrangements must be in that direction. We must finally, Minister, make the bet of all of us: we must propose and support our primary sector. We need to create wealth, because, Minister, the loan is over. In addition, L.4178/2013 was granted the possibility of placing arbitrary structures on sites allocated for commercial operation, as well as the use of bank seats by public and OTA entities. A prerequisite here, however, was the preparation of studies by these bodies, which, in several cases, is still pending until today. As the delays are due to the administration, we therefore propose that the suspension provided for in Law 4178 in these cases be extended for two years from the adoption of the bill. Article 86 provides for the law of arbitrary constructions and changes in use that have taken place before 28 July 2011. At the same time, Article 96 provides that in order to subject the arbitrary change of use to the law, the use must be legal when issuing the licence, in order to avoid, of course, misinterpretations. Here, Minister, it must be clarified that these usage changes can be made to the law regardless of the date when the use has been abolished in this region. For the Group of the European People's Party's Party amendment on the relocation and expropriation of the Arctic and Antarctic Islands, I am truly pleased that you recognised that it was necessary and, in fact, accepted it. After all, it was a request from the local societies and the Arcinian and Anargyra. So we made their request acceptable. I come to the amendments you have tabled. I will say that some problems are solved and already delayed, such as the amendment with a general number of 1269 and a specialist of 135. I shall, however, stand by the amendment with general number 1291 and a specialist of 143 for hybrid stations and pilot projects on the islands. I come to the article on hybrid stations. Minister, we must add here the case of those who have signed a public contract with all the resulting commitments, because they will all have the same potential. In other words, we must not have two standards. With regard to Amendment No 1297 and Amendment No 149, we are in favour of investment and their facilitation. You ask this House for general authorisation, you ask for a white check, which circumvents existing legislation. We have asked you to be more specific and to tell us whether it is a particular investment. You did not. With this in mind, we have to vote against it. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law on the structured environment could solve more substantial problems. It could make the public more effective. Our proposals have been thoroughly documented in order to improve all these arrangements that you have brought. That is why our position on the articles will be similar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u116	The reason is the special speaker of the Independent Greeks, George Lazarides.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Mr President. I cannot leave the misery and the way in which the New Democracy has dealt with this success, this successful journey, if you will, with the positive results of the Prime Minister and our President, Panos Kammenos, the Minister of National Defence. He started by making some negative comments about the economy. Listening to the New Democracy, one realizes why none of their friends abroad took them seriously and only gave them orders. That is why the New Democracy - PASOK government, in December 2014, escaped without passing an assessment. That's how well the economy was! And after all, the crisis caused these two parties. These two parties took the debt to 120% and then, with their successful policy, at 180%. With all these indicators, unemployment and disinvestment reached 28%. The other, the most impressive size is what I said from this Step last week. In the five years of war in Syria, GDP has shrinked by 28%, while, in other words, these two parties have shrinked in the five years that were ruling - from 2010 to 2014 - the country's GDP. GDP was 28% shrinking. That was their successful policy! And they want the Greek people to trust them again! They're constantly mentioning 2.4 billion for the F-16 upgrade. Indeed, Mr Davakis, who knows that these figures, when they are said, do not take into account aid programmes, compensatory schemes, etc. And I am referring to Mr Davakis, because when the 30 F-16 was commissioned, their nominal value was about 3 billion. The Greek people, however, cost 1.9 billion. And Mr. Davakis knows that. The ceiling, how much it will cost, how much this upgrading of this Greek budget will cost is 1,1 billion, and, indeed, within 15 years. No one mentioned that. This, of course, is a success. I would like to ask the following question about the opposition: Turkey is procuring F-35. The cost of each F -35 supplied by Turkey - I am talking about the cost of one plane - is as much as the upgrade of our F -16. Is it possible to burden the Greek people with buying F-35? Where would we buy them? After these two parties destroyed the country's finances. They destroyed the country's finances! That's the situation. Today, this government manages a destroyed country, which they destroyed. It was heard yesterday - and the President of the United States was also recognized - that the country's geopolitical role was upgraded. This has not been commented on. On the contrary, from all the international press he commented positively. The results of the government with the visit to the United States were dealt positively with by all the international press: the German, British, American, by all. Only New Democracy did not comment positively. Not even the PASOK did comment on it, which I would expect to see some malnutrition and petty from PASOK. On the contrary, the PASOK did not comment on it at all, and the New Democracy, which should be more serious about this journey and the results, dealt with it with memoriality. There is something else that no one has commented on. The agreement made to upgrade is transnational and without intermediaries, such as the ones we were used to in the past and the PASOK and the New Democracy, with the potential for some manoeuvres. The agreement is transparent and can change the economic elements to the most positive. What I would also like to stress is that Turkey has already started to upgrade its own F-16, beyond the purchase of F-35. Also, another thing which has not been said is that the EAW will benefit from and benefit from many aspects and in terms of its economic sizes, but also give greater scope to deal with workers, but will also open up jobs. Because, you know, LAPD's already a manufacturer of 30% of F-16, we're talking about turbulence. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be in less than half a minute, Mr. President. On the other hand, I would like to make a comment on the representative of the river, Mr Dannelis. He made a reference to the off-project construction, that is, it wasn't clear what he said. Is it against the outside construction plan? Can anyone imagine if there was no possibility of an outside construction project in Greece, what we said yesterday from this Step, the problems created in the expansions, an extension of thirty and forty years, can you imagine the needs for a people's home? No way. Because, you know, cities grow either horizontally or vertically. You understand, if there was no project outside, what cities we would have had today. And this is where I close. We are, as I said yesterday, positive the Independent Greeks in the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mr. Lazarides. The reason for this is the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Diamanto Manolakos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u119	I imagine the Minister as Haniotis MP must feel upgraded after meeting Tsipras - Trump, not because the Prime Minister was washing out American imperialism and making mammoth agreements, a great gift to the American military industry for the F -16 and a new bleeding for the people, as well as for energy pipelines contributing to the export of liquefied gas from the United States, but also to the upgrading of the 'base of death', Souda, the premier of the imperialist interventions that spread destruction, refugee, death to peoples and countries. It shows the most active involvement for our people and the country in the dangerous US-NATO projects in the wider region of the Eastern Mediterranean and the Balkans that are evolving fierce competitions for energy infrastructure and roads with risks for dangerous developments. Of course you have the support of the New Democracy and the other urban parties, because you are serving the same strategy and let them stand critically, something they must do. But for Souda, dead silence. And now in the bill. You presented this as fair and effective, that it organises new services at regional level, when the service staff is having a problem, there are no employees, when the associations of workers in the region and the President of the Union of the Committee of the Regions clearly say that they cannot be made without qualified staff and necessary logistics. You have justified privatization of state services as a separation of authorisation and controls, when it is known that this is what the European Union is obliged to do at all levels of public administration for less State-aided and private individuals. You presented as an innovation the simplification required by the large construction and study companies in order to serve their profits, as they have the privilege of having the capital, equipment, labour, continuous activity, unlike the self-employed engineer you crush. You presented the pre-approved procedure as an impoverishment guarantee to a new generation of arbitrary men. But you do not require prior approval for companies that want to build in the context of the strategic investment, i.e. fast track. You are making multi-speed licenses, depending on the interests served to ensure the profitability of the Groups. You have advertised the reduction of fines, when you create conditions for a higher financial burden on the owners than fines and compensation costs, together with other sanctions, if the construction is declared arbitrary. You have supported the electronic identity of recording and checking real estate, while in fact it is a mandatory tool for managing sales, seizures, auctions and their taxation. Basically, promote the building framework that favours large companies in the construction sector. This is your urban modernisation! You are hitting poverty, because you are shooting at the people's roof, but not to the same extent on the roof of the rich. In maisonettes and villas, which are underground and sophites are an independent space, the coefficient and the fine is reduced. On the contrary, in underground, which is selfish for homes or shops, the coefficient and the fine go up much longer. But also in the articles relating to tourist capital, you are provoking them, noting illegality, irregularities, infringements, as long as they have a trade mark for operation by the EOT. You confirm the doctrine "pass, destroy, settle, protect it from the bourgeois state" with another law of SYRIZA. But the arbitrary and underground people's dwellings are carved. So you're hypocritically saying you're putting order. As far as the article on Amyntheus and Saints Florinas is concerned, these people had to leave their homes because of landslides. They mustn't pay SNVIA for the abandoned ones. It's unfair and irrational! You do not provide for the immediate and definitive relocation of the settlements, while a rental subsidy and compensation must be granted to small-scale and livestock farms. The immediate expropriation of land is carried out at the expense of the State budget rather than PPC which is responsible. The mine is not suddenly slashed, but it is an extensive phenomenon, where for profit workers are endangered. We will be expressing ourselves in this article with 'the present'. As far as the amendments are concerned, most of them are photographic, graceful, both in energy and in urban areas, and for the CAP, it is not at all a formal issue, as you are saying. Already official, the workers' union's out in the bars. They have made a statement - a complaint, which I make in the Minutes, about the change in the President's remuneration with retroactive effect, a few thousand euros, when there are several problems in the CAPE, a lack of both hostage and blocked workers. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Diamanto Manolaku, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of Parliament.]] But retrospectively, you're also punking pensions that have paid for a record insurance fee up to cents. Evaluate the data as you want every time. Finally, we are voting against Amendments Nos 198 and 199, in which we are speaking about 'the present'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mrs Manolakou. The reason is the special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Eleni Zarulia.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr President. This draft law has been added to a number of laws since 1977 and also to legalise or settle arbitrarily. This chronological situation reflects the state's inability to impose conditions and restrictions on building in order to implement the constitutional obligation of the State, in accordance with Article 24 of the Constitution, to protect the natural and cultural environment, while aiming at the spatial restructuring of the country, in order to serve the functionality and development of the settlements and to ensure the best possible living conditions for citizens. This article of the Constitution is enough to give substance to a draft law entitled 'Control and protection of the structured environment', or at least so we would expect it to be. When we talk about the structured environment, we need to take into account an integrated concept and a structured policy on the basis of national spatial planning. Unfortunately, the lack of any such planning and planning, as well as the definition of land use, adversely affects the development of the country, the economy and the quality of life of the inhabitants. If we want to give an image, then we could say that this lack reflects the anarchy and arbitraryness that prevails at all levels of the country's social, political, cultural and economic life. The Government considers that this draft law makes a difference to the previous governments, that it is a radical proposal. So let's see what's going on. In Section I of the bill you create at all levels of public administration a structure parallel to the existing state mechanism, the Observatorys of a structured environment, without explaining when, how and with what resources will this structure be managed and, furthermore, without being sure of its effectiveness. Rather, the creation of so many new services is more aimed at building your 'party army' in the face of the upcoming elections than at resolving the real problems of the structured environment in our country. Instead of intensifying the complexity of the state mechanism, you could more easily use existing structures by reorganising them and making them more effective in their work. It is provided for in each regional seat of a seven-member Structural Environment Monitoring Board. We do not understand the involvement of a representative of a non-governmental environmental organization whose role is not always positive - see, for example, earlier interventions on the tower - Alexandroupolis - and often conflicts with the social and national interest because they are financed by darkly unwilling centres, such as George Soros. At best they are occupied by supposedly ecological ideas. What more will a representative of such an organisation offer from an established independent scientist in the field of the environment? As far as the dangerous and prepared issues are concerned, we believe that provision should be made for these buildings not only to be controlled in terms of structural risk - a fall in sobes, glidings, marques, etc. - but full static study is made, because in most cases risk buildings are old-fashioned and therefore do not comply with modern regulations. Let us not forget that our country is particularly seismic and that the stagnation of the buildings and infrastructures of the country should be a primary objective. In Section II of the bill you are attempting to define a new building framework and to redefinite issues regarding the issue and control of building permits, as well as the establishment of an electronic building identity. For the first time, small-scale projects are set up to EUR 25 000. For Rule 29 and for small-scale work on special groups, reception centres, etc., I have been detailed in committee. A further comment on the small-scale operations concerns the placement of scaffolds on the faces of buildings to remove structural hazards, drops in plasters, etc. It has been noted that, while this provision exists and existed, many construction services required a normal building permit to be issued, making it difficult and delaying the adoption of safety measures and the necessary work to ensure crossing pedestrian safety. This provision is also self-evident in many cases, because the budgets for these projects are rarely less than EUR 25 000. That threshold should therefore be repealed or even reviewed. But you say nothing about the thermostats of buildings and the installation of photovoltaics, which would relieve consumers of the burdens of PPC. In the topographical specifications, the permitted tolerances for immersions are unacceptable large, 5% for indoor plots or plots and 10% for those other than 2% in force. This will create huge problems in transferring and certainly legal disputes. With regard to electronic identity, this is an additional financial burden for owners, mainly for small and medium-sized enterprises. The amount of the fixed fines in the event of non-compliance is an unreliable and clearly tax-supporting measure, added to the cost of issuing the electronic identity, to the HOPIA and other obligations. already owners of real estate must declare property in the E9, have issued an energy certificate, possibly an electrician certificate, have paid HICPs, and increased income taxes, and once all of this is in existence, you are now including the electronic property identity. In Section III of the bill, which deals with the control of implementation of the spatial planning of public spaces and the environmental balance, you provide for the electronic urban identity of a municipality and the institution of the transfer of a building coefficient is redefined to ensure the environmental balance, as you say, characteristics, where of course paradoxes are still foreseen, which in no case can really solve the huge problem of a lack of public spaces, green spaces in the urban environment. From the point of view of urban planning, they are 'aspirin for cancer'. The cement towns we live cut us off from our roots. There must be a reversal of policing at all costs, at the same time, targeted and planned opening of open spaces in the urban centres, as well as establishing attractive incentives for residents to be oriented and moved to smaller cities or towns or villages. You provide free legalization of the properties of the supertariff - that's a scandal! - as well as in the arbitrariness of the official Church and the old calendarrs, as well as in arbitrary private sports clubs. 50% of the fines will end up in the Green Fund, 25% in the regions to support new structures and 25% in the municipalities. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] One more minute, Mr President. With regard to the imposition of an infringement of EUR 300 for stable facilities referred to in Article 120, we disagree with the fact that the livestock sector has suffered several blows and certainly this provision is not helping. The latter section includes provisions on the existing support scheme for power plants from renewable energy sources and cogeneration of electricity and heat of high-efficiency. This concerns many Greek citizens who have invested in Renewable Sources of Energy with PV and other facilities and are eventually being damaged and we think it should be resolved definitively. We expect the relevant results of the relevant regulation, although we have reservations. With this draft law, you are therefore attempting to address the primary causes that led to the creation of an anarchy and arbitrary structured environment in Greece. However, the primary causes are difficult to reversible, since they originate from unscrupulous consumerism and from the concepts of competitivity and shamefulness. With your continuing disastrous memorial policy, the construction sector with the related professions has been hit deadly. Any remaining work in the industry is often given to foreigners, while Greek workers in the building industry are led to the hostel. The Greeks must not only turn to primary production, but also to construction, but also with respect to the environment in the context of genuine decentralisation. If you want to do something good with which you would even write history, let us codify the daring spatial and urban legislation and set targets for the spatial development of our country. Greece does not need to retrospectively extend city plans to existing urban centres. There is a need for gradual relief of urban centres, real and practical rural support. Of course, this requires long-term planning, but above all, political will that you certainly do not have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u122	The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Konstantinos Katsafadas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u123	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I did not intend to comment on the Prime Minister's visit to America, but I will do so after the placement of the Parliamentary representative of SYRIZA Mr Xydakis, who was indeed in a pedagogical capacity, as he had to advise us about what the country's interests are and tell us how we should have a national cruise, a national look at the problems facing the country, when they are defended by the Greek Prime Minister, whoever it is. I would therefore like to propose to him that he return his memory to the past three years ago. There he will understand what it means to be responsible and what an irresponsible attitude. New Democracy wished the Prime Minister this journey to be for the benefit of the country. I never remember any statement by Mr. Tsipras when he was Chief of Officerial Response when Mr. Samaras turned all over Europe and all over the world asking for support to strengthen the Greek economy and not to be "prosecutors", "stuffed" and everything else. I would also like to give a reply to Mr Stathakis. From you, Minister, this debate with Mr Screka has begun. You asked us what phase we were, because we confused you and you said that you do not know if the New Democracy is for or against the trip and all that. In fact, the New Democracy has a clear stand on all this, Minister. Because you're trying to reverse the roles, I really would like to ask you what's happening to you. Is what the Prime Minister said yesterday in Washington that the Americans are a stable partner and a strong force, a global superpower that is directly associated with Greece, and we want more and more help from them, or what Mr Zachariadis said, that the SYRIZA youth on November 17 will continue to give the "parents" on the path against the American Embassy where he will call "people of the people, the Americans" - the weapons we take from them - and he says "Exit Greece from NATO"? Really, I'd like you to tell me which of you are you with. Let us now refer to the bill. Minister, unfortunately, after yesterday's commitment that the law that we are discussing in six months will be an act and after all these smiles you have thrown us, I have not calmed down. You didn't convince me. You said that within six months, then, this piece of legislation will be ready, which will take twenty-seven ministerial decisions, fourteen joint ministerial decisions, one presidential decree and the necessary circulars to implement the provisions. In fact, it has been so long since November 2014, that the Presidential Decree, which had gone to the Council of State, was ready for the identity of buildings. So long, two and a half years why didn't you do anything? Yesterday, Mr Spirtzis, who was President of the Technical Chamber and leading executive of the PASOK, came to defend all of this and said that what he had to do with electronic procedures for electronic permission, is not as the New Democracy says and that the system was having problems because there was no electronic building identity. That was the argument put forward yesterday by Mr Spirtzis that, because we did not have the electronic identity of the buildings, we could not proceed with electronic licences. But who's to blame after all? It was ready. You didn't make the first one or the second one either. You broke up the bill, Minister, in two parts. You said one that it was about the arbitrary construction, the arbitrary and the way you dealt with it. On the other hand, you have spoken of a very big innovation, about the separation of procedures, that is to say another authority to monitor the issue of licences and another authority to monitor implementation, if the issue of licences is properly implemented. But you told us, Minister, many times that this is based on studies by the World Bank to facilitate licensing, as was the case with the law that you brought to the licensing of businesses, which you voted on last year. However, you have not been told by the World Bank, Minister, that you should build this whole multi-accessible and multi-teaching system of committees, rather than committees which even reach the level of old prefectures. Something different has been proposed to you, but, unfortunately, you are not. For example, ladies and gentlemen, for all this bureaucracy that will follow, what has to do with our fellow citizens who will be troubled - I would like to tell you that the PSYSTEM, which is now institutionalised, has only one competence. You are building, Minister, a structure with only one competence, and it could have this one competence to have it, which is the very one under the institution. To understand, then, that we are creating structures which are unnecessary, do you want me to stand up to what the President of the Regional Council said, that there are no executives who can manipulate all these mechanisms that you are doing? Do you want me to talk to you about the representative of the DEDEN, who returned and said that he needed at least five hundred people? But of course, I will tell you the statement you made, Minister, yesterday at the press conference you gave, where you said that there is still no specific establishment plan, but you will make it. With this curiosity we are legislating here today. When it comes to the Earth Bank, let me tell you that the answer to the transfer of the building coefficient, when it will be, to a bill which simplifies the procedures, we did not get it. You told us that you hope the municipalities will respond to all this. But a substantial response to this draft law, which you say simplifys all these procedures, we have not received. What does it have to do with Class III buildings, where you said that you are creating a system in which the engineer will be responsible, who told you today that the engineer is not responsible? Why, is the engineer not responsible today? Of course it does. So don't tell us that because you're transferring responsibility to the engineer, that way there won't be a new generation of arbitrary people. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, please give me two more minutes. You're telling us that pre-approval can be optional. But now it is. And we're telling you this is five days late. In Class I buildings and in Class II buildings, two and five days in need, you do it for one or two months. The five days, which can ensure that we do not have a new generation of arbitrary men, is that what has hurt you, Minister? I would also like to speak about this great inequality, which you see other parties are now pointing it out in Parliament. The inequality that exists, Minister, is in relation to those who joined the previous law, in relation to those who believed that this state will be able to behave against them on an equal footing with the judiciary. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] I was amazed to hear a colleague from SYRIZA, who said "Mr. Minister, you should see those who were well not in the previous law". But is it possible to legislate on that basis? Imagine, Minister, this is my position at the moment as a representative and rapporteur for the Officerial Representation, to turn and close the eye to the Greek people and say "do not get into this law, we will bring better". Is that how a state can proceed? Is that the continuity? And how do you reward the law and the consistent citizen? By making him pay more than he believed you, by the one who did not join, than the one who continued to be in illegality? This is how we reward the law-abiding citizen, Minister? With regard to the Green Fund - and I am closing, Mr President - you said yesterday that 'our intention is to come back after July 2018 with wide-ranging possibilities and to play the Green Fund the role that we all want'. No answer. We are talking about EUR 4.5 billion, Minister. One medium-term is the EUR 4.5 billion. This money in July 2018 can be used? Can they be used for environmental projects, for projects which can also give developmental character in the country, for projects that are necessary? Can they or are they in the medium term and by 2021 can we not touch them? We want a clear answer. In conclusion, I would like to say that you are taking responsibility, Mr Minister, for the legislation you are bringing and for the suffering you will have and for the problems that you have already created on the market, but you will also create the free professional engineers and take the responsibility of not getting unconstitutional. It is a great responsibility, Minister, and I hope you have understood its burden. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, thirty-nine students and students and three educational attendants from the High School of Megalopolis Arcadias (B'). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Karakosta has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u125	I would like to say a sentence on the subject of our Prime Minister's visit to the United States of America. We can only judge ourselves positively for our foreign policy. The peaceful coexistence of the peoples is cultivated when you work with your political opponents, of course, respecting your political views, but at the same time respecting the political views of the opponent. In this context we must work together so that we have any good results for the benefit of peace in the world. The individual is another issue that needs to be discussed. I would also like to say this: in relation to the issue of the Macronissos, I agree with the colleagues who have spoken on this, Mr Mumulides and Mr Dannelis. I also agree with Mr Dannelly' s position on the matter of Herianna and on justice issues. I would now like to place in general the bill that we are discussing and what we are waiting for, knowing that this is always a separate bill in the whole planning that we want to achieve. We still have a long way to go in order for our country and ourselves to legislate on the basis of what is permitted and not on the basis of the ban. Why? Because that means that in this way we will also form a consciousness, and the citizens will change their minds about what it means to their lives 'organised and designed environment'. I also believe that the citizen respects the state that respects him. We have so far not respected him as a state, we have not designed him before, we have not seen his needs before him. We have created a gathering in Athens, disorganized the region, without planning, without having proposed what it will do, where it will stay, where it will work, where it will work, where it will place its factory. We never did this as a state. So we didn't respect him. That's why he doesn't respect us. I would like to point out that we must not become another generation of arbitrary ones. But to keep it from happening another generation of arbitrary ones, we said that red tape would be missing. Yeah, we're trying. What must be done from the government's side? An excellent cooperation, for example, must be made by the Ministry of the Environment and Energy with the Ministry of Interior. It was also said by Mr Xydakis and other colleagues. We also have to work with the Ministry of Culture, because it is true what has been said today, that the issue of a licence in special places can take two years and three years. What development can we have when we have licences in two and three years? At the central political level, the absolute cooperation of these three ministries is therefore required. Why? Because we really don't want to take all the responsibilities from the Local Government and take them to the Ministry, so with a structure we would solve the problem, Mr Katsafados. We want to leave responsibilities to both municipalities and the region. In this sense, when we have a central body to which you have referred, we have two years to get answers. And they accumulate questions there. So what do we do? We share the responsibilities in the municipality and in the region, to dismantle the SYPOTHA and go to KESYTHA etc. We are now going to issue permits. Do you know how much trouble there was to get permission for chimney in a fireplace? And we're taking that off. You don't need permission. In other words, we separate jobs which do not require permission at all. We separate small-scale operations and form three licensing cases. Here I want to say the following. You know, not only does the industrialist make his home or factory or his investment without permission. The public's making it, too. When planning within a plan with a clean legislative framework, he can wonderfully build his home without permission. Let us not forget that this bill - and I say it again - concerns the cabin of the farmer, until, in fact, the large plant of tourism, the large-scale investor, etc. So we shouldn't have two yards and two stations. Nor can we in a state create a law for the cabin of the farmer and another law for the great investment. We have to understand that once. A question was asked to the Minister and re-issued by Mr Katsafados, whether his six-month period will be respected. Honestly, I understand the question, because you have not yet kept your ministerial decisions, but laws since 2010, since 2011 and others have not been made until the end of 2014, beginning in 2015. We didn't have ministerial decisions to work on all the things you've made, as you say, and as you claim. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall now conclude, Mr President. Honestly, Mr. Maniatis with a very large tomb told us about the great design made by the previous government and which we rejected all of. The Minister explained how the plans for tourism and the relationship which they had with other spatial planning plans and all of this were rejected by themselves. I really don't want to make an opposition, but I can't say that from Tritsis' law yet, implementation has not been carried out. Of course it is not the government's fault. We must at some point have some self-respect for what we say and expose. It is also important for us - and to commit ourselves at this point - the time to win, which everything must work. We are going to win this, in my opinion. I would also like to reply to George Amyras, who raised a serious issue, that of the electronic interconnection of all services. The bill, however, describes it, Mr. Comrade. The point is to achieve it. I think we will achieve this because we have the political will and we will do so. One very important question is the transfer of the building factor. Watch out. You know very well that the transfer of the building coefficient did not work because the Council of State has always considered it non-constitutional. What for? Because he became a seller. So it wasn't what he says that explains this bill. That's a tool. It is a planning tool to transfer the build-up factor. It's not like I get what I have today, and I take it there. We need to understand this so we don't talk about time. We must first demand urban planning. There will also be a transfer of a building factor in urban planning. Why would I know where I have an increased structure to forbid the transfer of a coefficient, or where can I really put a transfer of a builder? So I need to finish the town plan, but having a tool that helps me with what? Not to compensate, because I have no money as a country, the private person, and I use this excellent concept, which we have not put, has been put by others, by the previous ones, but has not worked in the right direction. So, having these tools and many others mentioned in the bill, it is important that we use them to get ahead of this country.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u126	And with this to close, Mrs Caracosta, because the 'little' lasted a long time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u127	Yeah, I'm done. I would also like to say to the Minister and to all of us about what you are putting, the injustice between the arbitrary ones who paid their fines - they did not cease to be arbitrary, they simply ran to pay their fine - and they paid for it because for those who did not pay it, they offset their fine and it will work. So we have to do a study - I have to propose - to see what this percentage is, what these amounts are in the future, because we have in the next twenty-five years, because we have thirty years until they are legitimised, because it provides there and in connection with the transfer of a build-up coefficient and redemption, for them to be legitimised and not to be settled. There, then, we can see things with which to justify them. In other words, there are ways and methods, but it is sufficient to know the facts, to make them at the end of the law, to see how many of them are, what the money is and to find out how to solve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, too. Minister, do you have anything to add or point to?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u129	First of all, I'd like to make two orthographic corrections of law. In the case of (e) paragraph 3 of Article 36, the correct sentence is "in a design" rather than "out of a design", as was written by a spelling error. Secondly, the number 52 was made in paragraph 3 and not in paragraph 4 of Article 94. Now, I do not want to place myself too much, because I think it is obvious that a very extensive debate has taken place. There are two sections of issues in which there is convergence. There are different opinions. I am referring to the part of the way in which the building activity is licensed from this point of view and from now on. That is where we mainly attempted to separate authorisation from control. This is a statutory act of importance. I think there were not so much disagreements as the idea that this separation can produce additional bureaucracy with the new institutions, which will deal with control. However, arguments have been fully developed. This distinction barely answers fundamental questions: Firstly, it simplifys the licensing procedure very much, so the construction of the buildings is facilitated. Of course, if the control is carried over, the process itself is subject to the great responsibility of the engineer and inspectors. It is therefore transferred in a sense to private engineers, who are also structured environmental inspectors and take on an important responsibility, to monitor that the construction is in line with what has been authorised for. At the same time, control builds up structures. In our view, the structures must function, which is why we decentralise them. Central structures would have no chance of operating at a pan-Hellenic level. Despite the fear that a bureaucratic mechanism will be created, however, it is, in fact, a mechanism which is also provided for at regional and decentralised level will function and can do its job, which is the most important one. At the same time, by facilitating the new dynamics for construction, simplifying them, in relation to the previous law, we are strengthening the draconian measures for fines for the new generation of arbitrary ones. This degrades from the point of view. It is an inevitable part, but at the same time it is a part of a philosophy, which - I repeat - has been said by many - in the context of a wider strategy, which says that today, unlike the past, it is doing all the things we do in parallel - forests, Land registers, spatial planning in municipalities, and so on. - there is now an area in which we can answer the key question of design, plans for housing, tourism and so on. So it changes the whole landscape, and only in this context must we also see the specific option made in the bill on licensing and control. For arbitrary reasons, I also think the debate has been exhausted. They're softer fines. Two new social groups, with very slight fines, are introduced, the unemployed and those who receive social income of solidarity. So we facilitate the idea of normalisation by '11 and must be clear. All I want to do is stand by the issues of constitutionality - and the idea of transferring the rate. The decisions of the Council of State are quite clear. They shall prohibit the use of the transfer of the rate. Also, with the plan and the challenge for the municipalities to move on to local spatial plans, it is a different scale on which the municipalities are planning and their ability to create reception areas and make sense to transfer the building factor, without freight, while fully respecting the decision and case law of the Council of State, for which we have been criticised, which I do not think is fundamental, in view of the way in which the articles have been formulated, which precisely take into account the case-law. To conclude, I would say that I consider that there have been several changes, not only in our three-day debate, but also in the last three weeks, which has been discussed in Parliament with the institutions and, of course, in the great consultation that has taken place. I think it can be a bill of great convening the majority of this House, and that will be a strong signal in all directions, that we all want to work on these two major issues of the bill, that is to say, the best possible solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u130	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy is adjourned: 'Control and protection of the structured environment and other provisions'. It's a large volume of the bill. I don't know if they could unify articles. We are entering the vote at the beginning of the bill. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u131	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u132	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u133	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u134	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u135	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u136	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u137	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u138	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u139	The draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy, which was adopted by a majority, was therefore ‘Control and protection of the structured environment and other provisions’. We are going to vote on the articles and they will be voted on separately. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u140	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u141	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u142	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u143	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u144	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u145	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u146	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u147	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u148	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Can Article 2, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u149	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u150	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u151	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u152	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u153	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u154	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u155	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u156	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u157	Article 2 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Can Article 3, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u158	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u159	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u160	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u161	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u162	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u163	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u164	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u165	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u166	Article 3 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 4, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u167	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u168	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u169	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u170	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u171	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u172	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u173	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u174	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u175	Article 4 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u176	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u177	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u178	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u179	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u180	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u181	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u182	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u183	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u184	Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u185	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u186	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u187	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u188	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u189	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u190	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u191	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u192	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u193	Article 6 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 7 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u194	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u195	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u196	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u197	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u198	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u199	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u200	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u201	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u202	Article 7 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 8 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u203	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u204	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u205	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u206	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u207	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u208	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u209	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u210	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u211	Article 8 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 9 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u212	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u213	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u214	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u215	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u216	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u217	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u218	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u219	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u220	Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 10 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u221	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u222	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u223	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u224	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u225	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u226	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u227	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u228	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u229	Article 10 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 11 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u230	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u231	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u232	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u233	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u234	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u235	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u236	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u237	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u238	Article 11 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 12 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u239	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u240	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u241	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u242	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u243	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u244	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u245	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u246	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u247	Article 12 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does the House agree to Rule 13, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u248	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u249	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u250	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u251	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u252	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u253	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u254	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u255	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u256	Article 13 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 14 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u257	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u258	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u259	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u260	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u261	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u262	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u263	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u264	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u265	Article 14 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 15 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u266	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u267	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u268	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u269	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u270	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u271	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u272	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u273	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u274	Article 15 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 16 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u275	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u276	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u277	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u278	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u279	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u280	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u281	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u282	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u283	Article 16 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 17 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u284	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u285	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u286	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u287	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u288	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u289	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u290	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u291	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u292	Article 17 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 18 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u293	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u294	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u295	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u296	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u297	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u298	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u299	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u300	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u301	Article 18 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 19 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u302	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u303	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u304	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u305	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u306	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u307	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u308	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u309	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u310	Article 19 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 20 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u311	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u312	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u313	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u314	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u315	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u316	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u317	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u318	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u319	Article 20 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 21 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u320	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u321	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u322	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u323	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u324	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u325	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u326	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u327	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u328	Article 21 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 22 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u329	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u330	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u331	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u332	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u333	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u334	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u335	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u336	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u337	Article 22 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 23 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u338	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u339	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u340	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u341	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u342	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u343	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u344	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u345	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u346	Article 23 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 24 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u347	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u348	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u349	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u350	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u351	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u352	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u353	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u354	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u355	Article 24 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 25 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u356	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u357	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u358	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u359	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u360	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u361	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u362	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u363	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u364	Article 25 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 26 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u365	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u366	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u367	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u368	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u369	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u370	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u371	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u372	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u373	Article 26 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 27 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u374	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u375	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u376	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u377	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u378	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u379	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u380	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u381	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u382	Article 27 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 28 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u383	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u384	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u385	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u386	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u387	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u388	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u389	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u390	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u391	Article 28 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does the House accept Rule 29, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u392	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u393	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u394	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u395	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u396	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u397	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u398	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u399	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u400	Article 29 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 30 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u401	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u402	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u403	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u404	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u405	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u406	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u407	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u408	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u409	Article 30 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 31 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u410	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u411	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u412	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u413	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u414	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u415	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u416	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u417	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u418	Article 31 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 32 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u419	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u420	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u421	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u422	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u423	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u424	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u425	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u426	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u427	Article 32 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 33 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u428	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u429	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u430	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u431	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u432	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u433	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u434	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u435	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u436	Article 33 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 34 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u437	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u438	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u439	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u440	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u441	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u442	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u443	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u444	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u445	Article 34 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 35 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u446	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u447	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u448	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u449	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u450	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u451	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u452	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u453	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u454	Article 35 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 36 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u455	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u456	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u457	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u458	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u459	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u460	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u461	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u462	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u463	Article 36 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 37 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u464	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u465	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u466	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u467	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u468	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u469	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u470	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u471	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u472	Article 37 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 38 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u473	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u474	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u475	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u476	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u477	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u478	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u479	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u480	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u481	Article 38 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 39 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u482	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u483	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u484	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u485	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u486	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u487	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u488	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u489	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u490	Article 39 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 40 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u491	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u492	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u493	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u494	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u495	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u496	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u497	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u498	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u499	Article 40 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 41 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u500	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u501	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u502	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u503	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u504	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u505	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u506	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u507	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u508	Article 41 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 42 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u509	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u510	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u511	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u512	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u513	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u514	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u515	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u516	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u517	Article 42 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 43 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u518	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u519	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u520	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u521	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u522	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u523	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u524	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u525	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u526	Article 43 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 44 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u527	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u528	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u529	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u530	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u531	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u532	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u533	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u534	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u535	Article 44 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 45 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u536	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u537	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u538	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u539	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u540	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u541	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u542	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u543	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u544	Article 45 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 46 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u545	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u546	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u547	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u548	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u549	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u550	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u551	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u552	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u553	Article 46 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 47 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u554	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u555	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u556	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u557	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u558	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u559	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u560	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u561	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u562	Article 47 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 48 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u563	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u564	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u565	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u566	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u567	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u568	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u569	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u570	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u571	Article 48 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Does the House agree to Rule 49, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u572	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u573	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u574	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u575	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u576	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u577	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u578	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u579	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u580	Article 49 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 50 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u581	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u582	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u583	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u584	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u585	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u586	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u587	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u588	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u589	Article 50 has therefore been accepted as a majority. Will Rule 51 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u590	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u591	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u592	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u593	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u594	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u595	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u596	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u597	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u598	Article 51 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 52 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u599	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u600	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u601	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u602	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u603	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u604	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u605	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u606	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u607	Article 52 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 53 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u608	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u609	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u610	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u611	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u612	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u613	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u614	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u615	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u616	Article 53 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 54 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u617	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u618	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u619	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u620	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u621	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u622	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u623	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u624	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u625	Article 54 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 55 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u626	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u627	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u628	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u629	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u630	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u631	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u632	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u633	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u634	Article 55 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 56 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u635	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u636	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u637	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u638	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u639	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u640	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u641	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u642	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u643	Article 56 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 57 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u644	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u645	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u646	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u647	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u648	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u649	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u650	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u651	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u652	Article 57 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 58 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u653	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u654	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u655	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u656	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u657	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u658	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u659	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u660	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u661	Article 58 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 59 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u662	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u663	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u664	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u665	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u666	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u667	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u668	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u669	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u670	Article 59 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 60 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u671	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u672	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u673	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u674	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u675	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u676	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u677	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u678	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u679	Article 60 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 61 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u680	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u681	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u682	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u683	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u684	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u685	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u686	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u687	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u688	Article 61 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 62 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u689	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u690	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u691	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u692	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u693	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u694	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u695	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u696	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u697	Article 62 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 63 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u698	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u699	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u700	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u701	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u702	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u703	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u704	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u705	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u706	Article 63 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 64 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u707	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u708	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u709	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u710	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u711	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u712	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u713	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u714	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u715	Article 64 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 65 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u716	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u717	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u718	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u719	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u720	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u721	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u722	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u723	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u724	Article 65 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 66 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u725	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u726	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u727	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u728	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u729	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u730	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u731	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u732	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u733	Article 66 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 67 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u734	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u735	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u736	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u737	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u738	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u739	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u740	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u741	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u742	Article 67 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 68 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u743	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u744	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u745	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u746	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u747	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u748	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u749	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u750	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u751	Article 68 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 69 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u752	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u753	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u754	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u755	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u756	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u757	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u758	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u759	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u760	Article 69 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 70 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u761	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u762	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u763	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u764	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u765	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u766	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u767	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u768	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u769	Article 70 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 71 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u770	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u771	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u772	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u773	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u774	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u775	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u776	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u777	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u778	Article 71 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 72 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u779	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u780	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u781	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u782	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u783	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u784	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u785	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u786	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u787	Article 72 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 73 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u788	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u789	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u790	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u791	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u792	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u793	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u794	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u795	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u796	Article 73 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 74 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u797	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u798	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u799	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u800	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u801	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u802	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u803	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u804	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u805	Article 74 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 75 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u806	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u807	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u808	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u809	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u810	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u811	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u812	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u813	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u814	Article 75 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 76 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u815	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u816	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u817	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u818	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u819	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u820	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u821	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u822	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u823	Article 76 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 77 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u824	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u825	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u826	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u827	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u828	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u829	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u830	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u831	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u832	Article 77 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 78 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u833	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u834	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u835	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u836	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u837	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u838	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u839	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u840	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u841	Article 78 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 79 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u842	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u843	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u844	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u845	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u846	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u847	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u848	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u849	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u850	Article 79 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 80 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u851	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u852	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u853	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u854	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u855	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u856	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u857	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u858	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u859	Article 80 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 81 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u860	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u861	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u862	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u863	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u864	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u865	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u866	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u867	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u868	Article 81 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 82 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u869	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u870	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u871	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u872	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u873	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u874	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u875	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u876	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u877	Article 82 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 83 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u878	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u879	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u880	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u881	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u882	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u883	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u884	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u885	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u886	Article 83 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 84 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u887	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u888	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u889	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u890	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u891	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u892	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u893	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u894	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u895	Article 84 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 85 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u896	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u897	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u898	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u899	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u900	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u901	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u902	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u903	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u904	Article 85 was therefore accepted as majority. Will Rule 86 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u905	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u906	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u907	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u908	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u909	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u910	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u911	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u912	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u913	Article 86 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 87 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u914	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u915	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u916	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u917	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u918	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u919	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u920	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u921	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u922	Article 87 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 88 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u923	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u924	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u925	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u926	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u927	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u928	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u929	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u930	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u931	Article 88 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 89 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u932	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u933	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u934	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u935	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u936	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u937	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u938	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u939	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u940	Article 89 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 90 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u941	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u942	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u943	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u944	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u945	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u946	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u947	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u948	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u949	Article 90 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 91 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u950	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u951	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u952	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u953	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u954	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u955	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u956	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u957	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u958	Article 91 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 92 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u959	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u960	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u961	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u962	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u963	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u964	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u965	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u966	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u967	Article 92 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 93 as such be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u968	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u969	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u970	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u971	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u972	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u973	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u974	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u975	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u976	Article 93 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 94 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u977	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u978	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u979	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u980	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u981	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u982	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u983	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u984	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u985	Article 94 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 95 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u986	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u987	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u988	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u989	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u990	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u991	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u992	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u993	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u994	Article 95 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 96 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u995	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u996	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u997	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u998	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u999	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1000	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1001	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1002	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1003	Article 96 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 97 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1004	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1005	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1006	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1007	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1008	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1009	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1010	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1011	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1012	Article 97 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 98 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1013	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1014	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1015	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1016	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1017	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1018	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1019	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1020	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1021	Article 98 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 99 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1022	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1023	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1024	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1025	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1026	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1027	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1028	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1029	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1030	Article 99 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 100 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1031	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1032	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1033	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1034	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1035	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1036	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1037	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1038	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1039	Article 100 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 101 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1040	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1041	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1042	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1043	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1044	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1045	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1046	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1047	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1048	Article 101 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Can Rule 102, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1049	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1050	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1051	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1052	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1053	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1054	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1055	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1056	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1057	Article 102 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 103 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1058	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1059	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1060	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1061	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1062	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1063	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1064	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1065	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1066	Article 103 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 104 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1067	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1068	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1069	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1070	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1071	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1072	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1073	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1074	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1075	Article 104 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 105 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1076	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1077	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1078	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1079	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1080	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1081	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1082	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1083	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1084	Article 105 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 106 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1085	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1086	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1087	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1088	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1089	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1090	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1091	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1092	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1093	Article 106 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 107 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1094	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1095	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1096	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1097	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1098	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1099	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1100	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1101	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1102	Article 107 was therefore accepted as it is by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 108 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1103	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1104	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1105	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1106	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1107	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1108	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1109	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1110	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1111	Article 108 was therefore accepted as it is by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 109 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1112	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1113	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1114	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1115	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1116	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1117	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1118	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1119	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1120	Article 109 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 110 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1121	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1122	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1123	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1124	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1125	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1126	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1127	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1128	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1129	Article 110 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 111 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1130	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1131	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1132	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1133	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1134	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1135	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1136	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1137	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1138	Article 111 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 112 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1139	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1140	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1141	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1142	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1143	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1144	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1145	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1146	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1147	Article 112 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 113 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1148	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1149	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1150	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1151	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1152	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1153	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1154	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1155	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1156	Article 113 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 114, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1157	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1158	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1159	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1160	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1161	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1162	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1163	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1164	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1165	Article 114 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 115 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1166	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1167	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1168	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1169	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1170	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1171	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1172	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1173	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1174	Article 115 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 116, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1175	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1176	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1177	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1178	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1179	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1180	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1181	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1182	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1183	Article 116 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 117 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1184	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1185	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1186	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1187	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1188	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1189	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1190	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1191	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1192	Article 117 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 118 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1193	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1194	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1195	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1196	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1197	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1198	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1199	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1200	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1201	Article 118 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 119 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1202	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1203	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1204	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1205	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1206	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1207	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1208	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1209	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1210	Article 119 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 120 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1211	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1212	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1213	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1214	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1215	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1216	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1217	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1218	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1219	Article 120 has therefore been accepted as majority. Can Rule 121, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1220	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1221	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1222	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1223	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1224	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1225	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1226	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1227	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1228	Article 121 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 122 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1229	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1230	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1231	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1232	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1233	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1234	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1235	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1236	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1237	Article 122 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 123 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1238	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1239	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1240	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1241	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1242	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1243	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1244	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1245	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1246	Article 123 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 124 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1247	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1248	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1249	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1250	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1251	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1252	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1253	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1254	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1255	Article 124 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 125 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1256	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1257	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1258	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1259	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1260	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1261	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1262	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1263	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1264	Article 125 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 126 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1265	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1266	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1267	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1268	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1269	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1270	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1271	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1272	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1273	Article 126 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 127 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1274	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1275	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1276	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1277	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1278	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1279	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1280	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1281	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1282	Article 127 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 128 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1283	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1284	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1285	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1286	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1287	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1288	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1289	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1290	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1291	Article 128 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 129 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1292	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1293	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1294	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1295	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1296	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1297	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1298	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1299	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1300	Article 129 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 130 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1301	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1302	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1303	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1304	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1305	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1306	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1307	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1308	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1309	Article 130 has therefore been accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 131 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1310	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1311	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1312	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1313	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1314	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1315	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1316	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1317	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1318	Article 131 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 132, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1319	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1320	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1321	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1322	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1323	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1324	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1325	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1326	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1327	Article 132 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 133 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1328	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1329	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1330	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1331	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1332	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1333	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1334	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1335	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1336	Article 133 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 134 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1337	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1338	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1339	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1340	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1341	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1342	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1343	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1344	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1345	Article 134 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 135 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1346	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1347	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1348	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1349	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1350	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1351	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1352	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1353	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1354	Article 135 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 136 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1355	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1356	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1357	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1358	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1359	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1360	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1361	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1362	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1363	Article 136 was therefore accepted as it is by a majority. Will Rule 137 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1364	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1365	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1366	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1367	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1368	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1369	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1370	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1371	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1372	Article 137 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 138 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1373	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1374	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1375	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1376	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1377	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1378	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1379	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1380	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1381	Article 138 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 139 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1382	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1383	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1384	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1385	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1386	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1387	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1388	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1389	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1390	Article 139 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 140 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1391	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1392	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1393	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1394	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1395	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1396	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1397	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1398	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1399	Article 140 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 141 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1400	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1401	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1402	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1403	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1404	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1405	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1406	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1407	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1408	Article 141 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 142 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1409	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1410	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1411	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1412	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1413	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1414	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1415	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1416	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1417	Article 142 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 143 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1418	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1419	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1420	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1421	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1422	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1423	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1424	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1425	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1426	Article 143 was therefore accepted as majority. Will Rule 144 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1427	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1428	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1429	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1430	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1431	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1432	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1433	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1434	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1435	Article 144 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 145 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1436	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1437	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1438	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1439	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1440	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1441	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1442	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1443	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1444	Article 145 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 146 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1445	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1446	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1447	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1448	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1449	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1450	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1451	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1452	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1453	Article 146 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 147 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1454	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1455	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1456	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1457	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1458	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1459	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1460	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1461	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1462	Article 147 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 148 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1463	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1464	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1465	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1466	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1467	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1468	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1469	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1470	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1471	Article 148 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 149 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1472	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1473	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1474	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1475	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1476	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1477	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1478	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1479	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1480	Article 149 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number of 1291, and that is what it is all about?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1481	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1482	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1483	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1484	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1485	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1486	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1487	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1488	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1489	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1291 and a specialist of 143 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment with a general number of 1292 and a special number of 144 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1490	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1491	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1492	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1493	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1494	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1495	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1496	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1497	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1498	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1292 and a special 144 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment with a general number of 1297 and a number of 149 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1499	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1500	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1501	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1502	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1503	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1504	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1505	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1506	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1507	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1297 and a specialist of 149 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number of 1289 and a special number of 141 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1508	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1509	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1510	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1511	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1512	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1513	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1514	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1515	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1516	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1289 and a special 141 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment with a general number of 1298 and a specialist of 150?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1517	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1518	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1519	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1520	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1521	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1522	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1523	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1524	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1525	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1298 and a specialist of 150 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment with a general number of 1299 and a special number of 151 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1526	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1527	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1528	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1529	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1530	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1531	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1532	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1533	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1534	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1299 and a special 151 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1535	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1536	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1537	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1538	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1539	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1540	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1541	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1542	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1543	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. The draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy was therefore adopted on the basis of Articles and Amendments, 'Control and protection of the structured environment and other provisions'. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1544	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1545	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1546	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1547	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1548	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1549	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1550	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1551	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1552	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: ‘Control and Protection of the Structured Environment and Other Provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle of Articles and of the Articles and the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1553	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1554	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-18-S1-commons.u1555	With the consent of the House at 16.22 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday 19 October 2017 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
