ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS We begin with the second question by number 398/24-11-2017 of the second question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOKs - DIMARKKKKKOS KEgeroglou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "To normally pay the wages of the auxiliary staff of the ESS. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. I would say, in introduction, that as a State Secretary for Labour I had been asked many times to inform the House and, in particular, colleagues, following a timely statement on the non-payment of paid wages, wages to private workers and, of course, on the basis of the checks carried out by the Labour Inspectorate and the other relevant services. In the last few years, and I am referring to one and a half years, the phenomenon of unpaid work has unfortunately also been extended to the public sector for a number of reasons. We have workers who are not paid and the invoking of the administrations of agencies or hospitals, which are also my question, are bureaucratic procedures and other obstacles that exist. We would like today, Minister, in particular, to tell us what are the reasons why these workers are not paid and their salaries are not paid. In fact, this is happening in the face of Christmas celebrations. It is a question of which you must deal with and answer us because that is the case and tell us what the fate of this staff is. The contracts have been extended until 31-12-2018. Is that gonna happen? Are the workers going to be unpaid from here? Is there going to be some kind of provision for these workers? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u3	Me too, Mr. Kegeroglu. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u4	My dear colleague, this is indeed a timely question, in the sense that we are at a time when there is a difficulty in paying part of the ancillary staff who are currently serving in the ERC, doctors and other staff. This staff in precise figures is six hundred nine doctors whose term was extended after 30-9-2017 to 31-12-2018 - as you rightly said - and six hundred eighty-seven nurses and other health professionals, other staff who have also been extended. The reason why there is one difficulty - we are in the second month of late payment - is that we have had no objections from Commissioners of the Court of Auditors in various regions of the country, not everywhere and not on the same basis, but that was the main reason. In other words, while there are appropriations, this year the budget of the public hospitals had been increased. There was a specific provision of EUR 112 million for ancillary staff remuneration costs. You know very well that this, the remuneration of this staff, is a burden on the operating costs of hospitals and, of course, payment was absolutely guaranteed. We did what we did in a legitimate way, that is to say, in early August, in order to avoid any delay, the possibility of extending the term of office of this staff until the end of 2018. The reason we did so is that we really appreciate that this case, these three hundred people, cover real needs and manage the health system today in very critical posts. We could not allow the mass leaking of this human potential from the system. That is why the same workers had been extended three more times in the past. Two were given on our own government in 2015 and 2016. The objection on the part of the Commissioners of the Court of Auditors is that the term of office of these people has exceeded twenty-four months and therefore, in their view, there is a question of the legality of the payment. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] We, what we are seeing to the Court of Auditors - and we are really in a process that we give the necessary data and explanations - are that this human potential first, really meets very critical needs of the health system. Secondly, it offers work and indeed, particularly painful and highly responsible and obviously cannot work unpaid. Thirdly and most importantly, we have ensured the promotion of procedures for the recruitment of permanent staff, on the basis of which this need can now be addressed permanently and will not need a new extension of contracts in the future. I am referring here to the fact that we have already announced, but the procedure is not complete, three thousand nine hundred permanent nursing and other paramedical personnel for hospitals and health centres throughout the country, of which the nine thousand nine hundred eighty and the rest are now pending in the ADP. We also have approval for a two - thousand - hundred sixty - sixty - year - old ESS doctors' notice from which we have announced a thousand two hundred - seven hundred and four hundred - two, because the process of doctors is much more time-consuming. The argument that there will always be a need to perpetuate these extensions is therefore not valid. In our view, there is a concern to meet the needs of this staff permanently. I think this is a very important argument for the Court of Auditors. I have spoken on several occasions with his president. I have given the necessary explanations and have sent all this data in writing, which, in my opinion, are inclined to make the reasonable request for the approval required.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u5	Finish, Minister. You will also speak in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u6	I shall conclude, Mr President. These days, the assurance I have from the Court of Auditors is that there will be a specific control step, which will take account of all this data and we hope that it will take a favourable decision that will reduce the problem and normalise the payments, particularly until holidays. We fully understand that it is a requirement for workers to be 'normal' payments and for their salaries to be normally paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. I tried to understand the answer. I admit I didn't make it. In essence, the argument put forward by the Ministry to the Court of Auditors has nothing to do with the problem of non-payment. I wish the President would be persuaded by the promise that "we are recruiting permanent staff, so we will not need the assistants, pay them for as long as they are and see". Cleaning workers who were not paid, cleaners now of the Ministry of Culture in the archaeological sites that are not paid - they are six months - and all those who extended the contracts, in particular by means of parliamentary amendments, the problem is that there is no report from the General Accounting Office of the State. The problem is that the amendment has not been sent forward - if you would like - and the Court of Auditors consultatively so that it can see it and come. The problem, in other words, is that we legislate on political will, but we do not take into account the procedures that are required. That's the problem. In my opinion, direct legislation must come. In the first place, I would like to point out that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to biological agents at work is a very important one. Employees, subsidiary staff cannot celebrate without being paid. Look at it in any way. If the Court of Auditors "does not do well", it would be a matter of the Ministry of Justice and I would address the Ministry of Justice. If you consider this to be the case, you have to say that it is a matter of another ministry and that it is not discussed. However, I believe that you too see that a rough job has been done on this issue. It's not just a matter of the Department of Health. It is also the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Culture and other Ministries. I would ask you immediately to ask - as you send them the information - the plenary or the President of the Court of Auditors, what legislation which resolves this issue. Not to come to the new time to understand that the solution was finally another. Because - as I say to you - it would be unthinkable to leave these thousands of tranquil workers with no money to spend the holidays. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u9	Me, too. Minister, do you have anything to add?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u10	Mr. Kegeroglu, maybe it's my fault. I have not clearly given the essence of the answer. It is not a budgetary problem, it has nothing to do with what you say has not been approved, etc. This regulation was a regular article in the primary care bill and was passed on 4 August. So we do not have an arbitrary decision, a ministerial decision which extended the contract of some people. We have a legislative arrangement, as has been done two or three times before, with the agreement of the majority of the House. We have nothing more to legislate on. There is an objection on the part of some Commissioners to the first level of control of the Court of Auditors. There are other levels: the Court of Auditors, the Court of Auditors and the Court of Auditors. So now that the case of a hospital, namely the Commissioner's negative act, is being discussed at the Court of Auditors, we hope that the Court of Auditors, having all the information and information we have given it, will take a decision that will reduce the problem. I also want to say that we do not have a problem throughout Greece. Mostly, it concerns other staff and in some cases doctors. The majority of the Commissioners these days approve the warrants. We believe that, even where there is a problem, a solution will be given. So there is neither a question of clandestineness, nor a question of oligopoly. Obviously we are also interested in having workers in the health system who are normally paid and who are conscientiously offering their services to the people who need them. And it is no coincidence that all these past two and a half years, unlike what you say, we have not had any unpaid work in the health system. I would remind you that in the past we have had very often mobilisations of hospital doctors, especially for not paying for the newspapers. This was not the case last two years, precisely because it was the state's concern to pay the money to the beneficiaries in time and that there was no problem. Here we have a difficulty in adopting orders from an institution such as the Court of Auditors, by a court. So we are going to make an effort these days to overcome this loose end. It is already interesting that the doctors who extended their term of office, that is, their contract, there are hundreds of forty-three who have not agreed to extend their term of office because they were appointed to permanent posts that we held in the previous period. It has, to a lesser extent, happened for the rest of the staff. So our care is, by promoting recruitment of permanent staff to the system, to enable people, who have for a long time been offering their services, to support hospitals or health centres in a difficult period, to meet real needs and continue to meet, to be able to claim dignity and on the basis of their pre-service and qualifications. That is the radical response to the problem. Obviously, we also want to resolve this as quickly as possible these days. We may also have a meeting of the audit stage tomorrow, from the information we have from the Court of Auditors. We have informed the workers and we are waiting for a positive development to close this loose end and for a regularity to occur in payments to the public health system, which, in fact, despite this friction, still offers excellent services to the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make the following point clear to this House: The fifth, number 395/22-11-2017, timely question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: “The unacceptable and inappropriate attacks by NATO soldiers to Haniotis civilians on the evening of November 17, 2017”, will not be discussed due to lack of competence. The first, with number 472/28-11-2017, top-stage question of the first cycle of MP Xanthi of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Gregorios Stoyannidis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Respecting the licensed number of jobs in casinos", will not be discussed due to the absence of the relevant Minister, Euklidis Tsakalotou, abroad. The fourth question under number 408/24-11-2017 is the first question of the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Ilias Kassiri to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Populations in Attica: Compensation and rehabilitation measures for our affected fellow citizens", will not be discussed due to the absence of the relevant Minister Euklidis Tsakalotou abroad. The third, with number 409/24-11-2017, a topical question for the second-cycle Parliamentary 2 Athens of the People's League - Golden Dawn, Eleni Zaroulia to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The economic cost of the attacks by para-state elements", will not be discussed due to the absence of the relevant Minister Euklidis Tsakalotou abroad. The fifth under number 392/22-11-2017 topical question by the Independent MEP II of Athens Efstathios Panagoulis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Go back to Greece Mr. Tsakalotos the money he has in the foreign Banks?" will not be discussed due to the absence of the relevant Minister Euklidis Tsakalotou abroad. The third, with number 397/23-11-2017, top-circuit question from the First Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The need to find equivalent measures for maintaining the VAT of the islands and abolishing the end of the night", will not be discussed due to an obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Papanatsiou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u12	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u13	You're welcome, Mr. Cream.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u14	A question which has been pending for three months, concerning a study of the 'GRANT THORTON', which said that the levying of VAT on the islands and the rest of the night, is the end of the trader. She didn't answer. He didn't reply in practical terms. I mean, nobody came from the Treasury...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u15	Now are you analysing the question you asked the Minister to answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u16	No, no question I'm not analyzing and...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u17	If you want, I read somewhere in the press that it's open - it says - the subject of VAT. What can I tell you?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u18	Let me finish. Last time - and I was presided over - the three ministers were here in the House, and the second question was not answered, concerning the fact that at that time there was a general strike for the same reason on three islands, the most affected. They are the known islands, Lesvos, Chios and Samos. Now, however, this question will not be answered, because next week the budget begins. People protest with general strikes. And what everyone asks is: will VAT finally apply, will it be extended? What happens after all? And I ask you to pass this on to the Treasury, because it is no different.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u19	I'll pass it on. Perhaps because he was placed in the discussions of this assessment. I don't know. We continue with the topical and urgent questions. The sixth question, under number 101/17-10-2017, on the second question of the Athens Parliamentary of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panayotarou to the Minister for Health, on the subject: 'Ragda increase in measles cases in the country', will not be discussed, due to the impediment of the Minister responsible. The second question under number 401/24-11-2017, the first question of the New Democracy MP, Athanasios Davakis, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Second cycle of student housing allowance applications", will not be discussed because of the obstruction of the questioned Minister, Mr. Gavroglou, because Mr. Gavroglou is at a regional conference in Corfu. The sixth question, under number 464/27-11-2017, is the first question of the Greek Open University (E.D.) of the Member of Parliament, Mr. Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs.In addition, the Council adopted a common position on the proposal for a Directive on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data. The fourth question under number 474/28-11-2017 of the Greek Communist Party, Mr.Ioannis Delis, Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning foreign-language school books that are for payment in all public high schools, will not be discussed because of the obstruction of the questioned Minister, Mr.Gavroglou, because Mr.Gavroglou is located at a regional conference in Corfu. The first question under number 402/24-11-2017 of the New Democracy MP, Christos Boukokouros, to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the subject: "Exterior Guards of the Special Youth Reservation (KKN) Volos", due to the obstruction of the questioned Minister Mr. Kontonis, because Mr. Kontonis is at the Ionian Islands Development Conference. The question by No 661/24-10-2017 of the Independent MEP Mr. Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Understood Compensatory Benefits Contracts - S.A.", will not be discussed, because it has been answered in writing and falls under Rule 113(4) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate on this point has been concluded.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda for the INQUIRY Question No 8/6/1-11-2017 by the Members of the New Democracy Stavros Kalafatis, Georgiou Kumoutsakou, Konstantinos Tsiras, Savva Anastasiadis, Spyridonos - Adonidos Georgiadis, Athanasios Davakis, Anastasios (Tasos), Athanasios Kavada, Simos Kedicoglou, Ioannis Kefalokou, Evangelos - Vasiliou Meimarakis, Konstantinos Kokodimos, Konstantinos Tasulas, Vasilios Kikilia, Konstantinos Gioulekas, Christos Kella, Theodoras Bakoyannis, Ioannis Tragaki, Maximos Charakopoulos to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: “Without strategic and active participation Greece in the dialogue for the future of Europe”. Mr Stavros Kalafatis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u21	Mr President, we can wait two minutes, as there has been an urgent call from Mr Kalafatis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, we are interrupting for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall continue after the brief interruption. The first honourable Member, Mr Kalafatis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u24	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the future of the European Union is underway in Europe. Dialogue on this issue has been escalated recently with the speeches by President Juncker on 13 September, by French President Emmanuel McCron on 26 September and the European Union's informal summit in Tallinn on 28 and 29 September. This process basically began with the White Paper on the future of Europe on 1 March, in which President Juncker presented five alternative scenarios on how the European Union could develop. Five texts were followed - discussion papers, which are essential texts of specialization in the White Paper. At the same time, other critical processes take place, mainly with the so-called 'Social Summit' on fair employment and development, during which the European Social Rights Pillar was signed in Gothenburg on 17 November. Asked: A fundamental debate on the future of the European Union, with the main participants of European citizens, members of European society, social actors, self-government and others, is a pioneering process of broad consultation. But what does it take to achieve results in all this great effort? The answer is simple: governments which, in practice and in fact, promote this dialogue in their own countries, which are determined on this point, which adopt the European acquis consciously and, above all, have a vision for Europe so that they can be credible, both in their citizens and in the European Union. Really, what's going on in our country? Do we have a government that meets these traits? If we were to talk about Critical Opposition, ladies and gentlemen, the answer would undoubtedly be 'yes'. Because the New Democracy's resignation with the unparalleled courage - and here we are talking about real political courage, ladies and gentlemen - of our founder Konstantinos Karamanlis - was the one who joined our country into the great European family and has long insisted on Europeans. And, as our President Kyriakos Mitsotakis uninterruptedly supports, our firm position is "Greece at the core of Europe". But that's true for us. For SYRIZA, however, who, as a government, has the responsibility to bring Greece together tomorrow's Europe, what happens? Let me tell you what's going on, ladies and gentlemen. The government is in complete weakness and confusion, and this is because SYRIZA, among other things, already has a well-established past with regard to the European Union. Because, if you remember well, SYRIZA won power with the motto of Europe's change. And finally, what did he do? It exacerbated the economic and social crisis in Greece, with a chain of political and economic repercussions. It sprinkled on internal and external slogans of social division, contributing to the formation of a climate that was exploited for their rises to the extreme right and Euroscepticism. He has invested and continues to do so through his executives whenever he serves him within a bilingualism towards the European Union, which has strengthened the international unreliability of the government, but also at risk of our country's position at the heart of Europe. It has essentially abstained from almost all the processes for highlighting Europe's common stance towards the challenges facing it, such as the Brexit, the refugee crisis, terrorism and economic reorganisation. In practice, his theories and his policies, instead of an improvement factor, have become a legend of the mechanisms of populism, which are working on the degradation of European links. With all this history, your heavy European history, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you seem to be unable to play a role in the key challenges facing the country, such as closer integration of EMU, in order to make genuine economic and not only monetary union, closer political integration, which will provide our country with a security and stability guarantee and will strengthen its regional influence and economic power, closer integration in the area of the common foreign and security policy and the promotion of the Balkan enlargement of the European Union. In this context, we in the New Democracy are struggling for a more effective Europe to deal with complex issues that concern us all, such as the refugee - immigration issue, with a structured European asylum policy, an integrated European border policy and, in particular, with mechanisms for effective economic and operational European solidarity with the Member States - the first line, such as our country. We are also fighting for the protection of the European Union's social pro grammes, social inclusion and the fight against poverty, the development of skills and entrepreneurship, solidarity and the protection of rights, common and balanced development, the treatment of social exclusion, education. Of course, as a New Democracy, we believe in creating a common European front in defence and security to deal with phenomena such as domestic and imported terrorism and, of course, instability in too many, now, fronts. All these big bets the government is unable to approach them properly. In the refugee sector he made tragic management in the area of social Europe, making proposals through press releases, while at the same time implementing policies that break social cohesion in Greece and in defence and security issues, the relevant ministries are shaken by all kinds of adventures that affect the country's credibility and prestige internationally. Finally, at the top of the agenda for this debate, the closer integration of EMU takes place, the development of today's monetary union in a more complete economic and monetary union. On this basis, there are certain priorities for us: Firstly, the strengthening of macroeconomic balancing mechanisms, which must function symmetrically for the euro area Member States. Secondly, the implementation of responsible budgetary policies, taking into account the cycle of the economy, by adopting realistic budgetary objectives and by implementing the appropriate mix of budgetary policy, through the gradual reduction of taxation and burdens on households and businesses. Thirdly, the implementation of reforms that will improve the structural competitiveness of the economy. Fourthly, the integration of banking union, with the operation of a European deposit guarantee institution and the consolidation of financial system supervision and resolution rules. Fifthly, the strengthening of liquidity in the real economy, by promoting the association of capital markets, aimed at widening and diversifying the sources of financing for enterprises, especially SMEs, and by making better use of available European funds such as the Juncker package. And sixthly, the creation of a central instrument for fiscal stabilisation in the euro area. In this direction, the European Stability Mechanism, the ESM, could become a European Monetary Fund, EMF, which will act as a high-definition lender for its Member States. Within the framework described, reasonable questions arise, many questions arise, many questions are raised. For example, you refer to proposals put forward by our country, Minister, on the European pillar of social rights during the consultation process of the committee. First of all, what are these proposals? Secondly, how have they been formulated? Has there been any public debate in which the social partners participated? Is there a formal proposal tabled to the European Union Committee? Is there an official proposal from the Greek Government, concerning the establishment of a Social Cohesion Minister's position, head of a Eurogroup of Ministers for Labour and Social Protection, as you said? And if there is, what's her luck? What was the other side's response to her? And indeed, Minister, how contradictory is it, it sounds, in the ears of the citizens, to behave a government to propose a Minister for Social Cohesion in the European Union, while she herself has taken every action within the country to dismantle it? Secondly, the other area concerns the debate on closer integration of EMU. We know that on 6 December, tomorrow, the chairman of the committee will table a package of proposals for EMU relating to the conversion of the European Stability Mechanism into the European Monetary Fund, the specific budget of the Eurozone and the establishment of a European Finance Minister, who will also be Vice-President of the Committee. Is there anything you have to tell us about this? Is there still a targeted strategic planning strategy for Greece, under which our country is participating in the consultation process to formulate the future of the European Union on the basis of the White Paper and the five reflection documents of the European Union? And if so, who is it? Fourthly, with what individual actions of the government specialise in the involvement of our country in the process and in the dialogue in question? In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, the government has a weak presence in the debate on the future of the European Union. It does not promote it within the country, it does not strengthen it in Europe. Its inability to contribute to a stronger and better Europe, keeps Greece on the sideliness of a world-class, burys the image of our country and hurts our prestige. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece is one of the oldest members of the Union, a member of the Eurozone, the Schengen area, the Council of Europe and NATO, and has a geostrategic position extremely important. So we cannot deprive our country of the possibility of playing a leading role in European developments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u25	So do we. Mr. Kumoucascus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, since 2005 the European Union has been in crisis. In 2005 was the constitutional crisis, as the European Constitution did not go ahead. Five years later, in 2010, it suffered the consequences and shocks of the economic crisis and in 2015, five years later, as if something is happening and Europe is facing a five-year cyclical crisis, was faced with the refugee crisis. And soon after the Brexit came. And soon after Catalonia came. The truth is, then, that European integration and Europe have been shaken in this time. He was shaken, but he stayed up. A few months ago there was really the concern that Eurosceptics and anti-European political forces - rooted in a dark European past - would have the upper hand in many European countries. We were afraid and worried - those we believe and want Europe strong - what will happen to the elections in the Netherlands, what will happen to the elections in Austria, France. The real danger, however, of damage to the European structure has caused great conflicts in Europe, awakened European consciences. And the people in these very critical and important countries have voted European. They sent very strong pro-European messages. And so it began a new dynamic in dialogue on the future of Europe. There are the Macronne proposals that are very advanced but very important. There are also the proposals made by President Yunker, which are also very advanced. If we can capture them in summary terms, we would say that yes, they propose to the Minister of Finance, that the President of the Council and the President of the European Commission be brought together. They also propose the European Monetary Fund to the ESM position. They propose a very advanced cooperation in European defence with the permanent structured cooperation, PESCO, for the first time the European Defence Fund and many other proposals put forward. EMU for the first time remains not only monetary union, but there are also proposals to develop the 'O', economic and monetary union. But there is another issue which concerns us here in the Balkans. The prospect of enlargement to the Western Balkans, a dynamism that had been frozen, if you like, lost its dynamism, re-enters the European dialogue, which is very important to our country. However, all this force in favour of the debate on the new Europe has been frozen, pending political developments in Germany, pending the creation of a new German government, because the future of Europe cannot be written with Germany absent. But it is urgent that Europe move forward, that this serious European dialogue begins again, that it moves forward more safely towards European integration, that it produces results. The time we all have before us is short, because the forces of Euro-Arabism, which have retreated in the elections I mentioned, if Europe does not go ahead, if it does not win the minds and hearts of European citizens in the next two years, in the two years before us, it is very likely that the Euro-Arab forces of the black age of Europe will regain a head in the European elections in 2019. We are therefore in a hurry to produce serious, substantial European results. Here comes the main question: Where is Greece in this debate? Where are the Greek proposals? Where is the agony the real Athens emits, so that this time will not be wasted? Where is Europe's insistence on moving forward? What do we think about all this? What positions have we deposited? How much do we really want this opportunity not to be lost? I am watching - I wish to believe - with caution in European dialogue and I receive nothing from Greece, evaporated, there is no! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, please, I ask for some time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u27	You've got him since your denology, obviously.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u28	This need for an active political position in Greece is to highlight the current question of the New Democracy. We encourage you, we strengthen you, we urge you to speak European and essentially at last. And since we are talking about Europe and enlargement, you know very well that a major issue for European enlargement is Turkey's course. At the moment, its European perspective is going through its hardest, hardest days. Refusal to many European capitals - the largest - to see Turkey move forward and the position of Greece, of course, cannot be a denial. We do not want Turkey's anchor to come out of Europe. Because if Turkey is now unpredictable, if it goes away completely, if any prospect of coexistence with Europe is cut off, it will become a double, threefold, fourfold unpredictable and more uncertain ally and a more uncertain neighbour. That is why we must, with measure and wisdom, continue to support the need to have a connection, to have a working relationship between Turkey and Europe, because it will be a very negative development for Greece as well. Mr President, I will close with this. We are two days ago on a trip and President Erdogan's visit to Greece. Of course it is an important journey, it is a journey that we sincerely wish with openness, courage and political courage to produce positive results for our country. However, a positive result will not only be a few photographs. This will only be an outrage of Turkey's image, which will be provided by Greece at a time when it needs it. It's about what we get. Will there be substantial results from this visit? That's what we're asking. And that is what we were asking when we asked the Foreign Minister to talk to us about how he thinks of this visit, which basic designs he has. Obviously, we did not ask him to tell us how he would negotiate, as he wants to distort reality, but to talk, as all the serious states do, about a major visit. What are we asking? What are we waiting for? Strategic. The position of Greece would thus be strengthened, although the Civic Opposition had consented, had participated in the determination of the objectives of this visit. None of this happened. And now we are, I must tell you, very concerned, because this visit - which, as I have said, we see to it that there is a reason for it, because we need the communication channels - we see that it is being done, and last month, that is, the month since Mr Kotzias first came to Ankara,...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u29	Mr. Kumucaco, your dentistry is just over.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u30	...we have two hundred and fifty - please, hold the number - violations of Greek national airspace in one month. That's a big number. I am also closing with that, Mr President, we have a concern about Mr Erdogan's visit to Thrace. Of course, we have nothing to hide. But, as it will be the second visit of a Turkish official to Thrace in a month's time, it has been preceded by Mr Havan Tsavosoglou, and I hope that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has ensured that Mr Erdogan's visit to Thrace, the second - more - of a Turkish official in a month's time in Thrace, will respect the fact that in our homeland there is equality and iso-state, with regard to the Greek Muslims - that is the first - and, secondly, this visit, moves, words, will not be another shadow in Greek relations.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u31	Mr. Kumucaco, in Parliament...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u32	Mr President, what we are talking about is very serious. You want to interrupt? Stop. I asked for your tolerance for a...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u33	Don't interrupt, huh?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u34	Mr President, I give him a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u35	Excuse me, Mr. Kumucako, if I interrupt and disturb you, and I'm here, you're here!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u36	Mr. President, you are showing tolerance...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u37	I don't want to interrupt you! Excuse me!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u38	Mr President, there is no time at all!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u39	Mr President, monsters and points have been heard in this Chamber, which without any hindrance are heard and removed from the parliamentary process by Greek citizens. You want to strangle a serious conversation? Strangle it! Thank you so much! Hello!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u40	Cheers! Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u41	Mr President, there is not so much time pressure today. I think one minute will not destroy the debate or put out the norms of Parliament. Minister, the current topical question of the new Republic, although it should be made public, is not a matter that we are discussing today, because it is a very important issue. It is about the future of Greece in the new Europe, which is being created. The reason why we are asking this question is because we firmly believe that it is very unfortunate, extremely unfortunate for our country that at this critical moment in Europe, when this debate on what Europe of the future is going to be, you are at the wheel of power, without having any clear European strategy, which makes sense, since those who have lived with SYRIZA in this Chamber know very well that for many years you have been in two boats. And we do not forget, after all, that in July 2015, for the first time since 1979, Greece has been found with one leg outside the European Union and at the last minute thanks to 'the turn to realism', as you would say, 'Kolotoumba', as FINANCIAL TIMES write today - I do not know if you know that, we must congratulate the main Prime Minister on this - I will congratulate him today on an article by the 'FINANCIAL TIMES' - Greece has finally remained in the European Union. But you are left with all the junkies of your previous day, which prevent you from doing what? You must state the'residents', go in where the decisions are now being taken and the big debates are being held, to ensure that Greece is as we handed it over to you, to the hard core of the European Union, and not to the margins. You yourself, Minister, are a good example of this ambiguity. I have heard you many times say 'I declare that I am a communist'. Obviously, a communist cannot have in it the namas and admiration for the ideals of the European Union. We hear what the JRC says about the European Union and we understand what a communist for the European Union is. However, you, your communist, certainly have this position, which is extremely critical and for which you must clearly explain to Parliament, to the parties and to the Greek people what the strategy of Greece is in all this at the moment, what is happening around us, what is the Greek proposals, what is the objective that Greece has, in any case, for this new Europe, you want to achieve. I would remind you that, in not too old times, SYRIZA is being blamed for some ideas of European majesticism, dear George, when they said they would change for themselves throughout Europe. Don't laugh!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u42	That's exactly why I'm laughing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u43	That is what they said with this "mark" they were elected to change all of Europe on their own, that all of Europe was waiting and begging when the Left Government would come to power, to change all its norms and all its procedures! Of course you realized that this cannot be done and you have gone through the process of maturation. Now you say "we were delusional and now we are in the process of maturing". Both, the admission of illusion and the process of maturation, is, of course, a step forward from your previous stage, madness and paranoia that you would change Europe yourself, but that is not enough. Now you must present us with a specific plan, Minister, which is why we are here - you must tell us that the Greek Government of Alexis Tsipras in this great debate is coming with these positions and explain to the other parties. Normally, one of the reasons why this debate is taking place is to develop a common European strategy. Obviously decisions - when they are made - go beyond the constitutional limits of a government. Should this not have been the subject of a cross-party consensus, at least those parties that believe in the European process? We, as Europe's most important party in Greece, welcome you for coming now to this shift and maturation. But shouldn't there be a consultation, tell the New Democracy, which is a part of the European People's Party, 'we want to achieve this, you guys go talk to your own people', say to the Democratic Association - a Change Movement I think it is now called, Mr. Loverdos, if you'll excuse me - to go talk to their own in the Socialist Party, what is the strategy of Greece? This is how European groups work, and this is how the European strategy works. It's not a case of a man or a party. I would like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council whether he would like to make a statement on the situation of the two parties. For as far as the European strategy of the Independent Greeks is concerned, the only proposal - I have heard nothing else - from Mr Panos Kammenos for the European Union is the one he had said at the beginning of his term of office, that he would fill Europe with jihadists if they did not delete Greece's debt. In addition to this proposal, I have not heard of one other proposal on the European Union. So, Minister, do you not have the responsibility of sitting down on a table to consult? The decisions will now be taken, the next few months will take the decisions and will be judged what the position of Greece is. Don't get carried away from the nice words the troika tells you now, because you're signing everything. Apparently, you've become the most convenient government for the troika...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u44	Mr. Georgiadis, you are using the time of your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u45	Yes, Mr President, thank you very much. So that you have become the most convenient government for the troika and that you go through 'Hilton', sign and leave and you do everything and you do everything, it makes them say good words, but that is not enough to have a European course. This is just to stop others facing us as a chronic problem and put us somewhere in the corner, so they can rest from us. We're telling you how we're going to get back in front of the conversation. This is the major, Minister. And if you really are in a serious mood to draw up a common European strategy for all parties and to agree on what we want to achieve for Greece on this new path, the New Democracy is present, because the New Democracy sees the national interest above the party and considers that, yes, we must now all find the way to go where the country is worthwhile and not to be left on the margin, as we risk staying now thanks to the responsibility of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. Mr President, I should like to close with just one point to the Minister, who was necessarily involved in the papers on Saudi Arabia last week. A very serious question has been raised by Mr Koumoutsakos, and this question needs to be answered very seriously by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In this Chamber, Minister, a week ago the Prime Minister accused our ambassador to Riyadh of being a traitor. He came from the Step and said that our ambassador to Riyadh was working for the interests, he was a little bit like an agent of a businessman, another broker, as he told the House, a Mr. Sfakianakis. However, we have then seen that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has taken no action against this ambassador. You must tell us: whether the ambassador really was in favour of an intermediary, as Mr Tsipras said, and therefore the proceedings must be initiated to get rid of the Diplomatic Body without delay and to suffer the consequences of his behaviour, or what the Prime Minister told the House was a common slander, and so the ambassador can continue his diplomatic course in the House. Both at the same time can't happen. In other words, the ambassador cannot have been an institution of Sfakianakis and Mr Tsipras is right and the ambassador remains in his place. So you have to tell us what initiatives will be taken by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to find out what role the ambassador has been in this grief. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, too. Mr. Kefaliannis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u47	Minister, every speech, research, article or study for Europe, whose author at least respects himself, always starts with some common findings, such as that Europe is faced with its greatest crisis or that the confidence of citizens in the European Union is in doubt or even that the European Union does not respond to the intense fears and concerns of citizens. I think you understand that the reason why we have called for you here today is not to compete with who will make the best findings or formalities for the future of Europe, and how much more so for the crisis in Europe, but we have called you here to get as convincing and specific answers as possible, if you have them, in what many people call the greatest crisis and challenge for all the Member States, namely the further deepening and unification of the European project. Of course, the recognition of a challenge as a common challenge is not an easy matter. Its approach presupposes, at least in terms of its fundamental aspects, its common understanding. And I ask you: is this the case with your government? Unfortunately, I don't think so. If you get the views of officials of the present government on the reasons why today's Europe is in crisis, you will unfortunately understand that our country is at a very different wavelength than the other Member States - Member States of the European Union. I speed up the substance of your opinions, but also of your colleagues, formerly and now, from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. "Greece", you said, "was a laboratory of experimentation and a field of strategic mistakes. The attitude of the European partners states their refusal to enter into an equal dialogue with the people's will and expression. The referendum attempted to manipulate the will of an entire people." And indeed, Minister, I wonder: With these intellectual tools for understanding European reality, is our country still talking to partners about the future of Europe? Do Mr. Tsakalotos, Mr. Kotzias, continue to discuss and try to find a framework for understanding with our partners about the future of the Eurozone, using Greece's invention as a debt colony and Germany as a modern imperialist pole? If that is the case, then we should not be surprised at the ever-growing anti-European current which has been taking place in our country since 2000. The first issue on which, through you, your Government is controlled is whether, with what you have said and your actions, it has contributed to the moral and political decimation of Europe. Because it is another thing to come out and say that the management of the Greek crisis since 2010 has not been the best possible on the part of the European institutions and it is another thing to understand, as SYRIZA does, our relations with our partners in terms of enforcement and colonialism. A second question is what Europe is driving at. And to make it more specific, what of the five scenarios presented by Mr. Juncker are we working in Greece? I have the feeling, Minister, that you work for the first two. In other words, either the scenario continues as it stands or the scenario is nothing more than the single market. And, of course, I am not saying that that is what you wish, I say, with your actions and your omissions, you seem to be working for these two scenarios. You are therefore working on a Europe that will continue to go on with the genocide of national sovereignty, which says that you can exercise a national dominant economic policy, only if you take away powers from Europe and moves at national level, and which also says that popular government choices, policies such as social dividends, are ours, that is, national ones, while what is unpopular, such as austerity, is the European Union. At the same time, many Member States are participating in a strong exchange of ideas aimed at further deepening the Union, in which the Greek Government does not only participate, but unfortunately does not care and inform Greek citizens. I would point out that you are speaking as a SYRIZA for debt-sharing. Have you explained, Minister, to the Greek people that this cannot happen without Europe, the Eurozone fiscal capacity? What do you think of the creation of a Eurozone Minister for Finance, who will have a real say in managing national budgets? What is your view of the deepening of the banking union? Are you in favour of having the minimum possible cost for the taxpayer and the real economy, or do you want the broken financial system and the bankers' mismanagement of paying it to the public, i.e. the taxpayer? You are talking about a common European deposit guarantee system. We're with you. I wonder: will they cover citizens' statements when their governments fail to comply with their national obligations, are they taking unilateral action and are they conducting'superior' negotiations for which you appear unrepentant? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm going to need the time of my dentistry, Mr. President. Did you talk about the need to set up a European Minister for Social Cohesion, head of the Eurogroup of Labour Ministers, to do what? In order to operate intergovernmentally and to make recommendations to the Greek Government on how it will share its solidarity benefits or operate supranationally, with a European unemployment fund being supervised, which will intervene stabilisingly in the Member States, which already have a large unemployment rate, channelling resources to support employment? How do you think about the evolution of the ESM in a European Monetary Fund with the possibility of lending the ultimate need? Do you think of it as a mechanism in which the Member States will be able to veto the provision of such loans or as a mechanism democratically controlled by the European Parliament or by a parliament of the countries of the euro area? These, Minister, are extremely critical problems which are currently being discussed in Europe and, unfortunately, our country, through the government, is absent. France, for example, wants a Eurozone budget, but does not want to give way to economic and budgetary policy. Germany wants budgetary union as a strict budgetary discipline, without debt-sharing. Italy wants debt-sharing and banking union, but does not agree to set limits on the investment rate of Italian banks in government bonds, which is a fundamental part of banking unification. We ask you, Minister: do you have any specific view of this as a government? I'm afraid I doubt it. I hope you disprove me. Three years, as a government of SYRIZA and Independent Greeks, you have not been able to build the necessary alliances in the European Union. Evidence: Ten days ago we claimed the European Medicines Agency and were unfortunately excluded from the first round. It is something that I think you yourself handled politically and we really would like you to tell us what went wrong. Unfortunately, there is the impression that because of the Greek Government's attitude over the last three years we have been relatively isolated at European Union level, we have not built the necessary alliances, and that is why we unfortunately have failed at all levels. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, too. Mr. Maximos Charakopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr President. Maybe I need time from dentistry too. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now a common place to note that the European Union, this great historic experiment built on the ruins of two world wars aimed at lasting prosperity and peace among the peoples of Europe, is at a great crossroads. In recent years, until recently, we have watched the threatening signs of decomposition and abatement of European citizens' confidence in the Union and its institutions. It has made it clear that Europe will progress more decisively with a reorientation of its objectives or continue the path of decline, with a clear result. In this context, the awakening of forces and personalities such as the President of the Union Union Juncker and President Macron, who forcefully call for the reform of the European Union, are coming at the right moment. For Greece its involvement in the European issues and its contribution to the formation of the new European future is simply a one-way road. This has proved, but from the backwards, during the disastrous period of the first half of 2015, when the irresponsible political reason from the descendants of the former “EEC and NATO” little missed to derail the country from the European railroads. What would be the development, ladies and gentlemen, is today, even those with fraud at the time, at least in words, of other ports. Obviously, we would have sinked into economic and social chaos. Unfortunately, the political irresponsibility and lies recital continues without a trace of gum. We are amazed to hear Mr. Tsipras praise President Anastasiades for getting Cyprus out of the memorandum and saying that as soon as we follow them, when SYRIZA and the other anti-immemorandum relatives poured out the Cyprus out of the crisis. Or when the Prime Minister goes to Portugal, another country that came out of the ranks of memorials - because it did not have a SYRIZA - we also hear him congratulate them, at the same time that his government has checked the benefits of polyesters and tritecs, which slaughters pensions and wages, while house auctions, when you once torn up your clothes, so that banks don't get them. We arrived at your former Minister's point saying that it was the New Democracy that did not proceed with the auctions and made housing protection decisions. Get your hands up here now. We're unable to track the gangs. We leave politics and enter the fields of psychopathology. For us, ladies and gentlemen, there are no signals on the European road. We remain stable on the line drawn by the National Admiral Konstantinos Karamanlis many decades ago: Greece belongs to the West. And it must be at the forefront of the processes, so that by overcoming the huge problems that chronic pathogens have accumulated and obsessed, we can coordinate our step with the pioneering European countries. The axes on which the proposed changes are to be applied are specific. First of all, economic policy. Europe was found to be confusing between Scylla a strict fiscal line, which increased social inequalities and the North-South divide and Harybdis of naive and extremely dangerous populism, the consequences of which the Greek people are also experiencing. There is no doubt that the proposals for faster integration, for a common budget, a common Minister for Finance of the European Union, the conversion of the European Stability Mechanism into the European Monetary Fund and the guarantee of deposits at European level are moving in the right direction. In this respect, the government must finally take a clear position, not appearing ambiguously, as is customary, in order to satisfy its audience. Our path must be that of the major reforms that will be accompanied, however, by the necessary social policy. That is, I would say, and the big bet for the whole of Europe. In addition, we must take initiatives on asylum and immigration. Minister, the humiliating checks on Greek travellers at Germany's airports by de facto canceling the Schengen Treaty should be lifted. Unfortunately, too, in this area too few are our hopes from the present government, which first plays a role, NGOs and solidarity. Finally, Mr President, it is essential to create a worthwhile European army and to establish a common foreign policy, as was seen at the front of the Middle East, which must not lead to a new division of Europe and new walls, but to the consolidation of the security of all European citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u50	Thank you. Mr. Publicsakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u51	Mr President, thank you very much. I'll use my dentistry as well. Minister, Europe is at a key point in important decisions after Brexit. She's looking for her identity, her lost completion, as we believed her and as we envisioned her. There are currently fermentations and discussions on how to shape the European structure by 2025. The big question is where is Greece in this equation. What actions has the government taken? What policies has it developed in dialogue on shaping the future of the European Union? Unfortunately, the government chooses the logic of isolation, introverticity and total absence. SYRIZA conquered power with a European agenda. In practice, however, it has developed bilingualism towards the European Union and on a communication level by strengthening the country's unreliability abroad. He risked our country's position at the core of the European family. It has abstained from the processes in relation to the serious issues facing Europe, such as the identified refugee - immigration, which is your job, but also terrorism. Our seat is Europe. Through European processes we will find solutions to the major issues that concern us. We cannot abstain from the dialogue that is taking place. That is where we must say out loud that the land and sea borders of our country are also the borders of the European Union. Every question, every threat, every aggressive rhetoric on the part of the Turkish President, is not only about Greece, but about Europe itself. We naturally welcome the Turkish President and do not fear him, provided that he respects Greek and international law. You have the responsibility of the invitation and we ask you to ensure that it is respected, as a good servant of the rules of good neighbourliness and of cooperation. Please solve the problems that we are concerned with as two neighbours, and indeed the problems that I have raised recently in Parliament. We are also discussing today, after our question, the joint communication on permanent structured cooperation for defence and security. This aims to deepen defence cooperation between the Member States. At the same time, it is an important step towards the creation of a European defence union, as President Juncker said in September. Shredded budgets may lead us to the development of collective defence capabilities, but also to the restructuring of defence industries. Do you have a national plan for our active participation in the European Union initiatives in the defence sector? We must not forget another thing, that the lack of concrete planning undermines our credibility in the eyes of our allies in the European Union and there is a risk that we will be deported militaryly, which would be painful for a country that covers the majority of the European Union's eastern borders. Our aim, therefore, must be to make a real contribution to this dialogue on European integration and not to marginalise us. It needs a clear strategy so that our country does not remain in these new prospects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u52	Thank you very much. Mr Constantine Tsiaras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as last of the honourable Members of Parliament, I have the opportunity to say that today's Qualified Opposition raises a very serious issue through parliamentary scrutiny in the government, thus showing that there are some issues that are of concern to us, which may outweigh the small-party interest or, if you like, a more general approach that is essentially attempted by the political system and which has as a reference an issue relating to the continuity of our country, Greece within the large family of Europe. I think there are many developments, especially in recent years, which one needs to see, and possibly through an overall approach, I would say, whether by consensus or by conclusion to what we want, that it can express the positions that will work for the good at the start of Greece, but of course also for the good of the great European family. Bad lies. There is a strong challenge over the course of the European Union and, of course, about what is finally evolving through and - within the introductory - 'growth' of Europe, as well as the redefinition of the relationship between the role of specific states and a policy that can be differentiated or changed every time, because it is now, generally speaking, the landscape that is about Europe's future is beginning to become a blur. In view of this, in view of the possibility of a European Union of many speeds, at least in our view, the view of Officerial Anti-Population, the Greek Government has chosen backwards and works unintentionally or voluntaryly for the essential isolation of Greece within the European family. What makes me have such an opinion? The many and different positions of the government in relation to issues relating to the general position of our country in the large European family, and of course the way it has handled different events from the past to the present day. First-class incident. Since the establishment of the European Union as an opposition, SYRIZA has never voted for any Treaty on the European Union. But you will tell me, it was heard earlier by some of New Democracy's dear colleagues that there was the mutation, that the illusions were over, that we were at another time. I'll take that. Let's go to the government's age. In 2016 - and this is the second incident, which I would like to mention - I should like to remind you that the government was with the ANELs and Prime Minister Mr Tsipras, as it is today. So then, Greece took part in the Ministerial Conference on the European Victims Memorial Day of the Integration Systems, which took place on 23 August 2016 in Bratislava. A year later the Minister of Justice rejected Estonia's invitation to participate in a conference of the General Secretariat of Human Rights, which, of course, had a reference to regimes not only completely but also communist. Then the Minister has speeded up, through a propaganda, to tell us that Greece's participation was not necessary at all, since they would only participate eight countries. Finally, there were nineteen European missions at the conference. Once again the confirmation that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government wants to participate in this Europe! Third incident. On March 21, 2017, we had seen a non paper released by Maximou and confirmed the threats of veto exercise in the anniversary joint declaration of twenty-seven in Rome for the sixty years of Europe and indeed the Prime Minister himself. Two days later, on March 23rd, the Prime Minister changed his position. He was obliged to retreat and finally signed - I would say to you - the joint declaration on 25 March, and not at all an asterisk. Here, then, there are several questions which we ask the honourable Minister to answer and I think he should answer specifically: Is the government's priorities, as expressed in Tallinn, Estonia, finally aligned with the French President's proposals for a multi-speed Europe? Because we hear different voices from SYRIZA's honourable Members. We must finally understand that on issues relating to the future of the country - and it was rightly pointed out earlier that they are going beyond the constitutional time of a government - no government or any party in the government has the right to commit and mortgage the future development of the country and its participation in the European Union. Because, obviously, so far as we speak, there has been no dialogue. Does the Minister therefore have to make it clear: does the Greek Government agree to a new multi-speed Europe? How can it rule out such a possibility if it disagrees?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u54	You have your dentistry, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u55	I shall conclude, Mr President. I know I've taken my dentistry time too. Finally, in such a form of differentiated cooperation, under what conditions can Greece participate in the hard core of the European Union? Is it working, and how does the current government ensure this prospect? What is the government's position on the role of the ESM, as has actually been announced, proposed and discussed, on the proposal for a common Minister of Finance and, of course, on the budget of the Eurozone? All these are questions, which I think both have the weight and the seriousness of a debate, which must be done thoroughly and responsibly, and which must be answered by the government by the competent minister. In other words, ladies and gentlemen, as you can see, in a development which seems to be very much inconsistent with the overall course of Europe and, of course, with the participation of our country, the Greek position on a daily basis is weakening through the repatriation, absenteeism and, of course, the differences of opinion expressed by different people on the part of the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, too. Minister, would you like to speak now or listen to some parliamentary representatives?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u57	Let us hear one or two parliamentary representatives first.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u58	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u59	I want to hear him!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u60	The procedure is for the Minister to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u61	Good. I asked if he would like to hear some parliamentary representatives first.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u62	The Minister must speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u63	All right, Mr. Karathanasopus. Thank you, too, for the special interest in the Minister's speech! Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u64	It is firstly a good thing, ladies and gentlemen, that we are discussing a serious matter without particular verbal extremes. What is not good is that issues that we have already discussed seem to be ignored by honourable Members. In part, this is a subject that is called 'agnostic blindness' in psychology. If we have an impression or a strong conviction, we do not see things that have also happened for some of the questions it may be that, following and having embraced a neoliberal vision for Greece and the European perspective, some self-evident things are not seen. For others, I would simply pay it out to the lack of the debate that has taken place at European level, although I would remind you that we have discussed in the House four times in the Committee on European Affairs, either on defence issues in the Standing Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, a conference under the aegis of the President of the Republic dedicated to the future of Europe, to which we had the pleasure of hearing the parliamentary representative, the coordinator for foreign policy, Mr Kumucako. What, then, is our main difference? I accept that you are a European party. Our main difference lies first of all in the justification for the crisis. Why do we have a crisis? It is not a cyclical phenomenon, which comes back every five years, as I have heard one of the speakers say, nor is the crisis due to the rise of Euroscepticism and the forces that do not want Europe. This is an obvious symptom, not the cause of the crisis. I think the average good-faithed observer finds that the distance of the average European citizen from the European project is that the policy pursued over the last two - three decades, a neoliberal austerity policy, not just improves but exacerbates its everyday life. That's not my guess. In the European Commission's same White Paper, the committee notes that we are the first generation Europeans to fear that our children will have a worse life than ours. Even this is a natural consequence of globalisation, because globalisation cannot really be closed behind fences. It is not a natural phenomenon, however. It can be dealt with with with specific policies. On the contrary, what have been the policies implemented in recent decades? Policies which favour only the wealthy of the labour market, only employers. They dismantle the social state redistribution mechanism at all levels, such as taxation. I would remind you that in the OECD and European Union countries it was higher. In the OECD, the average maximum tax rate in the 1980s was 60%. Now it's 32%. It is also the deregulation of collective agreements. 60% of workers in the United Kingdom in the 1980s were subject to a collective labour agreement. Now, the corresponding figure is 20%. Whatever the case may be, if you get from what was about the soul of the European social model, that is, the social state, it is on a very important basis of deep dismantling. If we look at the stage of decision-making, economic governance in Europe actually moves into a gap of democracy. We have the Eurogroup, which has become a powerful institution and which imposes these policies without any sort of democratic control, without any democratic legitimacy. The involvement of these two major crises therefore actually leads to the full, if not overturned, alienation of citizens from the European project, for the simple reason that, although it is a noble dream, the European Union from the beginning, from the time of the European Communities, has not been an exercise underneath. It was an elites project, which acquired legitimacy only to the extent that it ensured at least improving people's daily lives. If we start with this, then, we will see that Europe will have to change. I have heard Mr Kalafatis criticise me for such adoption in the past. But it is the position of President Juncker, who has said exactly that, namely that Europe is at the moment at an existential moment and has not hesitated to call his own committee the last opportunity committee for Europe. That is why, although I believe you are interested in European unification, what separates us and you is not just the determination of the causes, but above all how the drugs, the exits from the crisis will be sought. Anyone who does not reject neoliberal policies, who does not want economic governance to be democratised, is signing Europe's death sentence. And that's not us. It's you. We, from the outset and in a particularly difficult political climate for us, said that we wanted to stay in Europe just to change it. And that's not small magnificence, as we've been accused of. Because we have always felt that we cannot change Europe alone, but we can only do so as a catalyst of a wider political alliance of progressive powers, which we will have, and will have those social democrats who have realised that 'passoverisation' leads to the vaporisation - that is to say, a full match with neoliberal policies - and we want to find a return to the roots of social democracy, which is exactly what Corbin is trying to do in the United Kingdom. In view of these things, therefore, we are not just absent, but we are at the moment that we are giving the signal of the discussions on the necessary turn to a more democratic and more social Europe. Having an upgraded position in this debate would be by definition given that we are the only left-wing government in Europe and, precisely because there is this political colouring in the European Union, we would even be heard because we are the only ones. But that is not the main reason why we are hearing this. We sound exactly why we have proposals. We're listening because we've succeeded in this proposal for the big progressive alliance not just on paper. In the European Parliament, it has been reflected in the effort to elect Gianni Pitella. It didn't work, because the connections are still at 14%. In Portugal it became exactly what we want, namely a wider alliance of progressive forces that resulted in a left-wing government. This is still at the forefront of our policy from now on. We also have specific proposals which I cannot understand why you have not followed them. We have tabled to the committee as early as 30 March - I am going to table the relevant documents - after the European Commission's first invitation to have the informal views of the Member States, our proposals on the social dimension in Europe, which includes all these well-known proposals that you have repeatedly heard from the mouth of the Prime Minister and my own on the need for a Eurogroup of Ministers. It was produced in a more festive way in the Pyukas speech by the Prime Minister. Did it not surprise you that President McCrone's first position on Europe did not, as you say, take place in Sorbonne on 23 September, but rather on 7 September in Punka? This was a recognition of the importance of such a debate from Greece on the social dimension of Europe and the democratisation of economic governance, equivalent to that of President Obama to give his last speech in this area. I think it is the most characteristic case that demonstrates the upgrading of the country's international prestige and the role it plays. That is my first point. My second point is that I do not think you are fully aware of the level of the debate, precisely because you cannot understand the key element in the refusal of neoliberalism to the European perspective. Some of the old cognitive tools we have had - small states against large states, intergovernmentality against European decision-making, even this question about the many speeds - applies to some extent. They have not been undone because they do have conceptual content that responds to existential correlations between political and social forces. But these duplicates must be understood in the state of the main opposition that I described to you. Take the case of the Stability Pact. It is currently being implemented as an intergovernmental treaty. Alas, if all we were interested in was this intergovernmental treaty to be incorporated into European law, as neoliberals and especially Mr Soible in his farewell to Eurogroup. What we would be interested is not only to have economic indicators, but also to reflect neoliberal logic in the Stability Pact. We should have binding social indicators, such as the level of poverty, inequality, unemployment in each country. Also, when we talk about the economic semester, what we should be interested in is how we can ensure these two key elements, namely democracy and the social dimension. It is precisely for these reasons that we have three major priorities in the proposals that we have put forward. The first is the need to reorganise a whole series of political governance in Europe, with an emphasis on strengthening democracy, a new institutional architecture, especially on issues relating to economic governance. The second axis is not only at the level of democracy but also in the transformation of economic governance, on the basis of two principles which exist in the Treaties but do not apply, namely solidarity and social efficiency. The third axis concerns the need to balance social and economic dimensions. So what have we proposed at these levels? First of all, when we talk about strengthening democracy, we also mean strengthening the rule of law. We have therefore proposed, together with the twelve other states and the European Parliament, that the so-called 'law rule of law' should apply at the level of the European Union, an annual report, an annual report on the application of the rule of law and rights, so as to prevent populist and anti-European regimes from claiming criticism on them. We could discuss proposals to link even the budget performances to states that are practicing and repeatedly violating their obligations. But the main thing in the institutional architecture is to stop the gap in democracy. The Eurogroup is not an institution that has a backing in conditions. It is completely undemocratic. It has no democratic legitimacy in the sense of political control. It must therefore be accepted - we have repeatedly said - that the proposal of a European Minister for Finance, which will be subject to political control at the outset of the European Parliament and, obviously, of a Eurogroup whose rules of operation must also be recast in the political control of the Member States. The transformation of the ESM into a European monetary fund, which you rightly referred to, can respond to this need to overcome both the neoliberal and anti-democratic orientation of economic governance if it does not take the features that are trying to capture the last non paper by Mr Shoeble as Minister of Finance. What does Mr. Shoeble say there? It says that the supervision of the European Semester, namely the course of economic governance by the European Commission, should be removed and assigned to the transformed ESM as a European Monetary Fund, which will have all the characteristics of the European Central Bank's immunity policy. The complete tradition of keys to economic governance, therefore, not only to technocrats, but to technocrats who always apply the same policy as the only economic orthodoxy. Therefore, we should have a new ESM in the form of a two-fold European monetary fund, not only as a last lender for the Member States, but also as the institutional guarantor of the European System of Guarantee for banks, the famous EDIS, but on condition that it is subject to the political and democratic control of the European Parliament and the committee. Otherwise adopting the opposite view would lead, precisely, to the strengthening of these institutional features that we want to avoid. That is why we are also in favour of a strong budget for the euro area - I shall refer to it later - which will be able to strengthen convergence policies, because neoliberalism does not only create inequalities within the states, create explosive disparities because of the current structure of EMU and between states. The surpluses of Germany and the central countries are reflecting our own deficits, and that can only change if we have a budget for the Eurozone that is facing these externalities of economic policy. So our view is that there should be a European Minister for Finance. The European semester should also be transformed to ensure that there is a corresponding strong legal control not only of deficits but also of surpluses. The banking union must be completed with the presence of a strong European monetary fund, but with the democratic guarantees I have said. We should also have a budget of the Eurozone, which will have new features and will tend to strengthen these convergence trends and using redistributive tools that strengthen the European Union's own resources. Why do we need this? In any case, we will have a 19 billion-dollar hole from Britain alone. We all agree that new policy areas such as the digital economy or migration need to be strengthened, and at the same time there must be convergence policies and policies for strengthening the common agricultural policy. First of all, this is not the case either if we had the same budget rate of 1%, and without the United Kingdom coming out. It is also clear that the burden-sharing performance of the Member States cannot be strengthened. The only way, therefore, to resolve this seemingly unresolved issue is to find new own resources of the European Union, by strengthening what we call 'own budgetary capacity', with taxes, precisely, which will have a redistributive orientation, such as taxation on international trade, taxation on coal, so as to meet climate targets. That's not enough. It is not enough, in other words, to have a democratisation of governance, by strengthening the accountability of the economic policy maker. It is essential that we also have a balance between social and economic dimensions. That is why we are not only proposing the introduction of a Minister for Social Protection in the Eurozone, because it is clear that when we want social and economic balance, it is not enough to have coordination at the level of the economy. One of the greatest irrationalities of the programmes was, for example, that labour market reforms were being discussed between finance ministers at Eurogroup and ECOFIN. So there is a need for us to have a Minister for Social Protection head of a respective Eurogroup of Finance Ministers. However, it is also important - as I said before - that we remain not only at the level of institutional architecture, but also at the level of the specific policies that will be implemented. Therefore, the new pillar of social rights should be given binding content. At least some basic policies need to be adopted to improve the daily lives of citizens. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] To this end, the two characteristic examples promoted by civil society are the prospect of introducing, in each state, a minimum wage equal to 60% of the average and the need to have a supplementary social security system similar to that of national systems. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I should also like to take some time, if necessary, Madam President, from my second speech. The issues that have been raised - on the individual issues, I will answer my dentistry - to say that it does not seem to me to be good practice, it seems to me that it sets out the limits of parliamentary immunity, to introduce issues which are irrelevant to the question, but not to appear to be avoiding the answer, I will answer them in my dentistry. I want to finish with only two findings: One is this: unfortunately the Vice-President of the New Democracy has left, but in his question whether one of the Left, a communist, can speak about European things, I would remind him that the European Parliament's central building has the name of Altiero Spinelli. Altiero Spinelli was a communist. In 1941, he made the Ventofen Manifesto.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u65	You're not embarrassed at all!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u66	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u67	You know that I fully respect this party, but I said that it is a condition of respect that we listen to speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u68	Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u69	So Altiero Spinelli is the one who tried to achieve at the level of the European communities, what we are seeing here too, a wider cooperation between the progressive political forces, beginning with the so-called Crocodile restaurant. So Spinelli was the European Parliament's rapporteur for the Treaty on European Union, and it is just one proof of how all the political forces, including those who are not satisfied and, in essence, reject the current orientation and orientation of the European Communities, give a new social dimension in favour of the peoples of Europe to the European project. The last thing I want to say is for short. It is a wish that this meeting coincides not only with the adoption by the Eurogroup of the third assessment, which is not the only one that ended in time, it is not just the only one, which has no additional financial costs or new measures, but is also the first in fact, which reverses some of the unfavourable, anti-social measures of the previous programmes, for example, the bank's proposal towards workers in forced execution. The second happy coincidence of the day is that the Portuguese Minister for Finance, a Minister against neoliberalism and against austerity, was elected as the next President of the Eurogroup. So let us look at this as a happy, new start for Europe, a principle that will mark the European perspective with the need for democratisation and the social dimension. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after being informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and toured in the exhibition of the "ELEIGERIOS VENIZELOS", nineteen students and students and four teachers attending the PAEL Leonidios. We welcome you to the House. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Today, children are a timely question submitted by the New Democracy MPs to the government. After the questioners and the Minister have finished, the parliamentary representatives will now speak. Of course, the Chamber is not much involved, but you get an idea of how the debates are being held. Mr. Javarras will speak first. Here, Mr. Javarra, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I would like to tell you at the beginning of my speech that I expected you to give another dimension to the answer. You have all the ability, I think, to do all the education and training. However, you will allow me to tell you that what you said in your reply to the question of the New Democracy is a parliamentary accident and I am using the word accident, because I think you have consciously chosen to use these means of reply, because otherwise it would be an accident. So did you come here to tell us that what everyone lives in Europe from 9-5-1950 to date and to the future is a process which neoliberalism monopolies and claims for it on its behalf? Is it true, in fact, that the dimension you give to historical cosmogenicity, which, of course, did not invent neither Mr Spinelli nor any of the left parties, which, in any case, could be mentioned for other reasons rather than the reasons for building a social Europe? Because when the states of Europe in the Middle War built the social state in the state's place - spatial guard, that was where the Left was absent. Because then the Left had the doctrine of socialism. Then the left said that those who claim better conditions for social life and better pay, claiming through the trade unions a better living treaty, did nothing but act as a means to strengthen the integration of the working class into capitalism. So we know very well where this matter is coming from and instead of other things I would like to say a single phrase from the French Declaration of 9-5-1950 when the first European Community of coal and steel was founded. Then Robert Suman, Minister for Foreign Affairs, said, addressing all the others who participated in this grand historic project that Europe will not be born by and on the basis of an overall plan, but will result from shared achievements, from which people will have the opportunity to see what real solidarity means. This pattern is moving history to this day. And if that is what creates the need to engage in dialogue on the future of Europe, it is obviously not because the European ideal was attacked by the economic crisis or by liberalism. What is happening today in the case and the historic process for European integration is the fact that it has escalated from the initial visions. And what were the original visions? Let's remember them, Minister. The initial visions were those that were born in the zobis of the effects of the destructive 2nd War. These were the visions of the war. A decision has been made, which was neither left nor right. It was the decision of the peoples of Europe, under the guidance of enlightened leaders, to prioritise the plans of life and peace and to leave behind the forces of war, death and destruction. That is why, first of all, the European case refers to a peace project, a peacemaker, where the contradictions will no longer be made on the basis of the dogmas you mentioned before, but will take place through the longing of the peoples, bribes, to have a course in a clear-cut, which they called 'United States of Europe'. This is the vision of a man who has not succeeded or heard, if you like, to be an elected politician. Never did the father of the European Union, Jean Monet, have luck or misfortune, happiness or misery, to be elected as a politician in any particular post. And it is no coincidence that he was able to inflame all this magnificence, which we, today, are those of the project of European integration, are honouring. Our question has nothing to do with it, rather than push you to come here to Parliament, where the debates are democratically taking place and where the dialogue is organised, so that the Greek people can also know what each one of those who has chosen, about these very great historical projects. We wanted, therefore, to force you to come here and finally tell us what your attitude towards this effort is, to re-energise the involvement of the peoples of Europe, the dimension called 'complete European integration'. You, instead of anything else, told us - and you will allow me to say it - that you are claiming better conditions for workers, because you are the representatives of the social dimension of this European integration. And here you are mistaken, because you know very well that this social dimension you are talking about has precedes trade unions in Germany, France, Italy and also precedented politicians, who have made the plan beveridge in the former United Kingdom and now the United Kingdom. They have made maps of rights, of which the political system has now drawn up, and society is enjoying fruit. He did not expect Mr Tsipras or you, the path towards European integration, to give him his social self. That is why I would also like, at least from this Step forward, to have the seriousness and responsibility it needs, to unite the great affairs of history, the great reports that all peoples have started to make, with great ideas. Because, as I believe Mr Dousina will say, from the appalling event of a war, political subjects have managed to link disastrous results with great values and universal truths. That is what Europe is suffering today. And, of course, do not tell me that you are pleased - to refer to the social achievements of your Government - when you have made a law on recalculation allegedly - not for the cuts - of pensions, you see your successor here today, the Minister responsible, and to say from the Step forward of the House that what we have received from the ECA - that is, what we have collected as insurance contributions from the free-traders, from those who, in fact, have condemned them to be insurance taxpayers and not insured - we share with those whom we have wanted to participate in a vulnerability, from which we have excluded - even at this point you have not hesitated - a number of weak people. Really, what right do you share insurance contributions and don't make reserves for the next generations to receive pensions? Secondly, having decided to do what you are doing - the tip - with what right did you exclude sensitive categories of population such as disabled people? LEIs don't get this specific tip, this particular social dividend as you say it, because as I had the opportunity to hear the complaint of a paraplegic in my region, he's not insured. In other words, you're turning the insurance funds into benefits. And this is called a social state, which is related to the social European acquis?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u72	This isn't about insurance with that help.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u73	But say that. Here Mrs Ahtsioglu told us that this aid is being given, using money that you received from the ECA, that is to say from the single insurer. These are insurance contributions. With what right did you make it a promotional allowance? But there's something else. You spoke of neoliberalism. I would like you to tell me who best serves this neoliberalism in Greece, when 40 billion euros of red loans have been formed and every day reddened by credit cards, where the interest rate runs at 18%? I repeat 18%! And it is not called tortoise it with the tolerance of the government! When the banking system accepts deposits with 1% and 2%, can you tell me in the name of which left conscience, do you allow bankers to charge and distribute interest at 18% to 40 billion euros? That's why they're selling them and 1% and 2% and 3%, because most of them have formed them that way. And now it's your neoliberalism? No, Minister! Honestly, I've been expecting something different from you. And I will tell you what our difference is now, that is, what is the chaos. As I am a united man and tolerant, I did not share the phrase of today's Prime Minister in Peristeri, when he said "or we will finish them or end them". I'm not in favour of the divisional speech. I am in favour of the reason that it unites. In this case of European integration there is no 'affectio societatis', this spirit that is corporate affection, love to complete a purpose that is corporate, common.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u74	He's been missing all over society, not just there.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u75	Here too, the interpretative shapes you have used, Minister, about neoliberalism, instead of facilitating dialogue, make him divisive. And here - and I am ending, Madam President - I am sure that our difference lies in this: we are interested in the future of Europe, while you are interested in the Europe of the future. And as much as that sounds in somebody's ears as it is, it's completely different. We are struggling for the future of a Europe that has already been a vision of great personalities, leaders, where many parties have contributed, from the People's Party of Europe and Social Democracy to the Greens, to all those who really feel solidarity with this case, that Europe should be driven by the action of specific policies towards the future, that is to say, the United States of Europe. But when we talk about Europe of the future, we mean what will happen next year when some like you claim a trade union-type like what you mentioned earlier from this step. This will be what we will live if you continue to fight for the future of the European case. It will, unfortunately, be what, without a targeted policy of action, without the intervention of a visionary dimension in this struggle for European integration, remains only over time. Of course - I conclude, Madam President - because you have spoken of cognitive blindness, I would like to say this. Saramagu has said it very well in this beautiful text of blindness: "He is not a blind man who sees or ignores who speaks. Blind is the one who does not understand the historical necessity." It coincides with what I tell you, based on the ideas you believe in Marxism, to be also the fundamental relationship between man and freedom. Because it is free to obey an historic necessity and necessity for Europe today is nothing but the involvement of all the political forces in creating the United States of Europe. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, I have an announcement to make to you: The Ministers for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Foreign Affairs and Justice, Transparency and Human Rights submitted a draft law on 4-12-2017: ‘Amendment to Article 5 of Law 1920/1991 (A-11), in which the Act of Legislative Content was ratified ‘Most of Muslim religious workers (A-182)’. The draft law is referred to the relevant Standing Committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u77	Will it go to the Committee on Morphic Affairs alone or to the Committee on Foreign Affairs?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u78	It simply says 'competent'. I don't know. Well, now Mr. Dousina, Parliamentary Representative of SYRIZA, MP for Piraeus, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u79	Madam President, it is always a great pleasure to follow Mr Javarra in Stepa, because he is, I think, the only man of enlightenment at the chairs of counter-population...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u80	Hey, no! Too much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u81	...and who ended his speech, basically, referring to Marx, because it was Marx who said "Freedom is to know necessity".
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u82	To provoke him, I said it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u83	While we, my dear colleague, are trying to change the necessity. Because you spoke about the history of Europe, in which I fully agree, I agree to tell you that the modern descendant of this history, Jurgen Hambermas, said in 2002 that Europe has become the model for all mankind, because it achieved all that you said: peace, peaceful competition and, of course, a prosperity based on solidarity. And today, Hambermas wrote six months ago that Europe is currently on the verge of destruction. We are - and this, I think, very well founded by the Minister's excellent analysis - of what we theorists call the 'constitutional moment', that is, a historic time in which a state or a supra-state organization either is founded or re-established or is led to the turbulence. It was the Left that understood from the outset that we were at this moment. It was first the Left that consistently denounced economic policies and austerity, which put growth and democracy at the centre of the plan for a new Europe and said repeatedly that Europe needed re-establishment. Recently, even smart social democracies, Schultz also talked about redeploying Europe. On the other hand, we are hearing'more Europe, more Europe, we are staying Europe', without any specific proposal. Europe has become something like salt, so you're putting more and more salt into your bowl, but you're forgetting that quality and quantity of salt can make it tasty, but it has negative consequences for our health. Only if we look at how we got to this particular crisis, with the most comprehensive scientific documentation, can we decide where to go. That is why we have convened a meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, to which we have brought a number of distinguished scientists in order to be able to speak to us on this subject. We have started a series of thematic meetings in the Commission on Brexit, to which we will of course also add a debate on the future of Europe. But why did we get to this situation? Because only if we understand that, my dear fellow Member, we will also be able to find the measures that will help us overcome it. Firstly, we had a terrible economic failure. All economic science accepts it. The weakening of the social state, deregulation, privatisation, austerity, internal devaluation and the conversion of all of us into small businessmen of ourselves and our family have failed financially. If you do not want to say it neoliberalism, I agree, it is indeed liberalism. Along with that, however, we also had what in science has been called 'the post-democratic treaty', namely, we had the economy imposed on politics, the self-determination of the technocrats, the convergence of the two major political groups at the extreme centre with technocratic governments or governments of a large coalition. So the policy is being relegated, because everyone is the same and citizens are turning against politicians - I think that you are cultivating it to a certain extent - against the European Union and austerity and then against minorities. The consequences of these policies have been seen here in Greece in recent years, and we have felt them in our minds: the growing authoritarianism of the Union, with Germany imposing its policies, without taking into account the democratic choices and sacrifices of our people. The inability of the European Union - as you have said - to learn from its history and the promise of peace - as you have said - outside this war zone on which it was founded. Finally, we had the divorce between capitalism and democracy and social justice. This was a strange "marriage", but a "marriage" achieved and to which the Left played a central role. All this causes citizens to be indignant about injustices, economic hardship, political abandonment. This is how far-right anti-Europeanism, the symptom of all these policies, which - unfortunately - your governments and your ideology today fully adopt. But how did it become institutionally possible to get there? Here you will allow me to speak a little more theoretically. Since the 1980s, continuous convergence has become the 'raison d' etre' of Brussels. Two different models fought and struggling to enforce their own interpretation in this process. The first, supranational, European, as the Minister says, is seeking a constant deepening of political integration. The second, the transnational, is facing the Union as an intergovernmental cooperation, where the strongest negotiate and make all the important decisions. As the great theorist Alan Millward wrote, the Union is the last chance to save the nation - state. The crisis - and every crisis - has put on the surface the posts, the basic principles behind this great dialogue and even conflict. What does that teach us? The crisis shows that strong states easily leave the European direction, marginalise the institutions and procedures in favour of extreme 'government'. The macroeconomic framework that has manned the years of the crisis is a mechanism to formulate budgetary priorities outside the supranational framework and any legalisation. The Eurogroup, the European Stability Mechanism, the ESM which is not subject to European law, the summits, the Six-pack and the Two-pack - and I do not mean the abdomen - the new financial pact, the European Semester are transnational agreements that are strict and, in our case, inhuman budgetary discipline and internal devaluation. Realpolitik and the interests of powerful states dominated. Monetary union with the violent hierarchy between lenders who dictate conditions of impoverished austerity and borrowers who can only choose between obedience and persecution shows that this policy can lead to the decline of the Union. So let me move on very quickly to the proposals. The White Paper with the five scenarios and the Juncker proposal - the sixth scenario, as it is called - reluctantly recognise the gap between politicians and peoples. Yunker shall promote the Union perspective with a common President instead of two, the Union Minister for Finance, with a small increase in the budget, an extension of Schengen and the euro throughout the European Union and with some assistance. Ms. Merkel, of course, plays her usual role as a Sphinx, as Pythia. She doesn't say what her point of view is. Of course, she has her own difficulties. What do we say? We have taken into account the European Union's failures, the European Union's malfunctions in the previous period, and we are at the forefront of the creative response to this editorial moment. We need a general strategy and we have it. Only if you have such a strategy and a full understanding of the problem can you start giving some specific solutions and proposals. So I think, and I am afraid that the Yunker proposals, without change, are on a path of normalisation of the measures that have been implemented for the first time during the crisis, namely, platonic medicine, are poison and antidote. There I think that the proposals made by the government and the Minister are exactly in the right direction, because the other is 'business as us'. We accept the need for a common strong budget in the Eurozone. It takes countercyclical budgetary policies to ensure economic stability and social cohesion. The ESM should replace the International Fund as a last resort lender. But, contrary to the current situation, it should be subject to European law, accountable to the European Parliament, because we must not hand over Europe's keys to the technocrats. More specifically, we need convergence in tax policy and common tax rates...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u84	Mr Deusina, please conclude, because all the parliamentary representatives will take the same time. We'll be late.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u85	Madam President, I have no second language. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u86	No, you don't. You had six minutes for your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u87	We therefore need a common tax policy and a common tax rate so that we do not have tax havens and competition, a gradual convergence of the minimum wage to 60% of the average wage and an equal treatment of the excessive surpluses of current transactions in the countries of the North with the budgetary deficits of ours, the South. I'm ending up with a word. The future of Europe is of great importance to us, ladies and gentlemen, and within this logic three are the broad guidelines. Firstly, social cohesion and the proposals that the Minister has mentioned are extremely important. Secondly, however, we must re-culturalise politics, re-establish democracy at the heart of our own perception and architecture, so that citizens do not think that Europe is an enemy organisation and that it also turns out of Europe and outside politics. One last thing: because there is still a great deal of emotional and cultural attachment at local, regional or national level, perhaps we should think more in the medium term about transferring power and resources from Brussels to the national, but especially to the regional and local level. Only we can think of these ways. As far as the rest of the leaderships are concerned, you have drawn up the great things you said, Mr Javarra, and have failed in total both to understand the causes of the crisis and to be able to deal with its symptoms at the moment without our participation and advice. Thank you and excuse me, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, too, although that was doubling of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u89	To tell you the truth, this year I was told from the beginning.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u90	Someone misunderstood you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u91	Madam President, there are rarely serious discussions in this House. Let them develop their word.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u92	That's subjective, you know? Everyone has a narcissism for himself, that he's very good. The parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Alliance, Mr Loverdos, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Madam President. Before I begin my speech, because I heard the Minister in his basics, I would like to ask him a question. Is it possible for you to blame the institutions of the European Union for a lack of legitimacy - which is not unfair and inappropriate to argue - when in the first year of your administration you have established the most hated shape in the European Union, the 'Directorate'? You forged it with your operation with the Germans in the first six months - seven months of your administration. You have established the most anti-ethnic, anti-institutional and completely past practice and you have caused as government and reactions from other European countries, which, of course, did not participate there and felt hurt. Anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u94	How do you mean it? Explain to me to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u95	I mean the first seven months, eight months, nine months - if you remember - the arrangements that Mr Tsipras tried to make for Greece with a small 'directional', bypassing all the institutions of the European Union and by opening a very slippery road. Anyway. Criticism is that. However, the question is surprisingly useful. We have not discussed these matters either at the National Foreign Policy Council and they are serious and topical, as each of us sees. Does the European Union have a future? He's got to have it. In our view, it must be. We are introducing this self-evident objective in our intervention as a Democratic Compromise for us. In order to plan for the future, however, we must understand the present and, on the basis of this arrogance, see what we might think about what comes here. It should also be borne in mind that because the European Union - the EEC at first - offered solutions to the risk of disintegration of Europe, but also to the welfare of its citizens after the war, it was strongly legitimized. The greatest of us remember the great goal of Greece becoming a member of the EEC in previous decades. In response to the major problems we have experienced in Europe, the Marshall Plan and the creation of the three European communities. Impressive results, in fact, have been achieved by many - I call on Mazauer Mark with the 'dark continent' - to say that united Europe is the biggest economic, social and - take care - of the democratic success of history. However, major economic problems have just emerged, demilitarisation has begun. Did it start on the occasion of the crisis, as it broke out in Europe and first of all in Greece? Oh, no. The decolonisation had begun. I would remind you of the referendum on the European Constitution in the Netherlands and France, two of the founding countries of the EEC, the European prospect. So we need to see on this road that opens up before us - and Greece must go - what we believe should be the targets and the first plural I use is literally rather than just a shape. We need to see what issues have emerged from reality, as we understand it, but as most people see it. First, economics, development, social state. Secondly, security, terrorism. Thirdly, immigration, whether we want it or not. Do we need a fairer Union with symmetry in development? Yes, and we need to see how that can be achieved. Do we need more European economic institutions? Yes, because the European Central Bank is not enough. Does the proposed European planning show us the establishment of the Finance Minister as a solution, which many people call, but with a common fiscal policy? When the Prime Minister, our Prime Minister, the Greek, speaks of a Minister for Social Security - and you have repeated this today - can he stand, without a common budgetary policy? Where's he going? Will it be like the Minister of Macedonia and Thrace, who is the derivative of other ministers' policies? It's not coming out. It will either literally or not speak, because it falls into contradictions. Upgrade the ESM. A European Monetary Fund will be preferable, for many and various reasons. Consolve the banking union with the deposit security system and create other institutions for the creation of what Dimitris Tsatsos said as the "European Municipality" and the need to create them. But let's see if you're positive, as a Greek government, to deal with it. President McCron has proposed - I fully agree - on international cooperation in order to eliminate terrorism: a common military force, a European prosecutor on terrorism, the creation of a special European academy against terrorism. What are you talking about? Here for PESCO, for permanent structural cooperation, the Minister for National Defence has not talked to us. We have not heard a word from the Greek Government about something that is being done and which we read in the most serious newspapers that Greece is taking part. In what respect does he participate? What do you say there? Here in Greece we are talking about Saudi Arabia. Here in Greece you are involved in a dialogue that goes elsewhere. On this occasion - and before I finish - I shall be tabling eight documents, Madam President, which show how much you wanted this dreadful middleman, how Mr Kammenos could not proceed without the middleman.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u96	Mr. Loverdos, you've already published these on the "First Theme" since 18.50. Can you hear me? You're not listening to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u97	I say, Minister, that we may not have discussed these issues, that we have not said a single word about PESCO, that we have not had a single meeting and that your Parliamentary representative and you have a policy that you have established and simply, for reasons which we cannot understand, do not know the other political parties and the Greek people? Let's talk about immigration. There are countries - ours is in them, but there are others - which are under very great pressure from the migration problem and have structural problems, many times, their political systems. Do we have a policy on the problem? The policy our islands tastes, not even politics. It is not like a policy against what we are threatened with, that others should close their own borders towards us, what the Greek citizens now suffer when they go to Germany. Is that part of your strategy towards immigration? I guess it won't. However, one of your policies on this issue, which has a European dimension, that is to say, to move away from our own frameworks, I fear that I have not seen it. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that there is no way, a political organization that has a leading position in the Greek political system for a particular time, that it can move on to such a difficult route if it does not have the basic projects within it, and if it does not have people who can articulate them with power, with faith and lead to collectiveness, to which it belongs. Your internal recruits are reflected in your central policy, and one sees it, not when one Minister or State Secretary of the Interior hears speaking, but when he hears any other Minister speaking, who participates in the collective responsibility and functioning of your Ministerial Council. How is it possible to assemble what you say - and that is what I shall close - by the Prime Minister's phrases - about as a complaint - recently in Lisbon about the market economy on which the entire Western world is built? Our concern, when we speak and make political speech from the Centre and the Central Left, is how we will be able to fit as a primary project an attempt at social equilibrium and to alleviate social inequalities as far as possible. But you must have the broader strategy to put that on. If you miss everything else and throw that away, you are a part that does not belong to European social democracy, which may belong to the denounced parts of the political systems - and thank God, in Greece, we have acquired much - but not to those who can responsiblely form strategies. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that it has become clear - that is now for granted - that Greece belongs to the West. However, the basic part of the West, which teaches and culture, but which also teaches balances between efficiency and the social state, is Europe and its shape, which is the European Union. That's where we have to move. Those who denounce it can have no role and no part in our common course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u98	Mr. Loverdo, you didn't listen to me when I spoke.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u99	I have not heard, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u100	I say that you have submitted these documents since 18.55' in "," and the news says they have been filed in the House along with Mr. Loverdos' speech. It's good to let you know what time you're talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u101	During programming, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u102	Do you want to prevent the news of 20:00 or 21:00?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u103	No, Madam President. I'm doing my programming, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u104	The House, however, is not the means to be addressed. Do it yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u105	Can I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u106	No, you don't have to. We all know why you did it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u107	I don't need what you're saying, Madam President. Others need it, like you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u108	I don't understand what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u109	I don't need it...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u110	In any case, the House is not the means to make our publicity public.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u111	You're neither one's judge.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u112	What did you say? Open the microphone, please, to record these.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u113	You're neither one's judge. Be more careful.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u114	No, I'm president, and I don't want to feel like people are using me here to impress them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u115	I don't know what you are. However, judge of others are not and be careful.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u116	Mr. Loverdo, it's good to be careful. You've done a lot.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u117	Be careful, Madam President, because you are also in violation of your role many times.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u118	Make me reproach, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u119	No, we won't do you a favor. But we will say what we want you to think in your 'in' mind to be serious!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u120	No, we'll sit here like a marble, use us! I'm president and run the debate. I'm not here to sign the documents! Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u121	Please! Be more serious. Be serious.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u122	We're done. Mr. Panayotarus has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Madam President. No, gentlemen of the New Democracy, Mr Erdogan is not welcome either in Greece or in Athens or in Thrace. Everyone knows - and you - that he will come and do, except for a communication show, and a substantial job, to the detriment of our homeland's national integrity. Once again in a few months, we will again see a Turkish senior official perpetuating in our Thrace and the Greek state acting like a yoguf. Mr Katrugalos was mentioned at some point in his speech in a symptom of psychology - if I am not mistaken - about total blindness. A total blindness, Mr Katrugale, should - unless you were talking about self-criticism - be as government, with everything you have said in the recent past, with what you are doing now and with what is happening in our society in general. The worrying New Democracy has brought an up-to-date question about the future of Europe. First of all, the question is whether the European Union is the same as Europe. We believe that the European Union is not a Europe, especially as it is built up in our times. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, what are your positions for Europe, for integration and for everything you have told us during the speeches of your Members? Do you have positions or positions are what the European Union, the dictatorship of Eurogroup, the Commission and all these members of the European Union, who are, in fact, not even here, but most of them are 'plants'? What European Union are you talking about, gentlemen of the New Democracy, but also of the rest of the parties, which you are all trying to do - are you a competition - to show your pro-European face? Is this 1981 when our country entered the European Economic Community at that time? This was an economic community where the Member States would benefit from other States which were not members of the European Economic Community. Or the European Union of 2017 with the criminal euro and the consequences of this criminal euro, which all Greek citizens experience? Or is the European Union of the memoranda, social destruction, non-governmental organisations, illegal immigrants, George Soros and all those who, all who are working through the European Union, are the dissolution of the real Europe? And we have seen the European Union, with this crime of the euro, actually separating budget from economic and monetary policy and the inability of any national independent economic policy by the Member States, which make up the euro area, mainly. Because the Eurozone states for their public spending are necessarily borrowed with loan-driven interest rates for today's data by private banks, the ones that have been bankrupt many. And the Greek people are being borrowed continuously, by recapitalisations or earlier by state guarantees, so that they can be renegotiated and renegotiated. At the same time, the Member States lend themselves, while they are borrowed by the European Central Bank, at very low interest rates. Unlike those countries, although they are members of the European Union, they are not members of the Eurozone, which are literally flying. Denmark, which has its national currency, owes no more. It is the first country in all of Europe and not just. The Swedish economy, another Nordic country, which also has a national currency, is at its best. The Czech Republic, a country which entered the European Union a long time after Greece, sees the definition of an unemployment-free succession of only 3%. Because this is a success story, not what New Democracy - PASOK or the current SYRIZA - Independent Greeks are saying about successful policies and practices when unemployment moves to 21% and over. Bulgaria and Romania are two countries which have entered the European Union lately, but they have made economic progress and their growth rates are envied, with what this may mean. Poland, another country, which entered very much after Greece and the European Union with its national currency, sees its economic indicators going very well. What Europe do you want? The one who finds tax havens? Because all these countries, which swing our fingers, also have a tax haven, other than Greece. The European Union has moved from an economic union to a closed group of few, Eurogroup, the Commission, which takes decisions, against the will of the European peoples, for example TTIP at the expense of farmers and even to the European Parliaments, which are the only ones elected against all those who are politicizing against the European Union. It is a foreign policy and a disastrous one, as in the case of Russia, where only Greece has hundreds of millions of euros of damage from this pointless embargo. In Syria, let us remember what the then Minister, Mr Avramopoulos, said in a question of the Golden Dawn: 'Assad'. And now what happened when the game changed? Syria's legal regime has been imposed, all the data have been changed in the Middle East, and Greece is on the side of the losers, those who wanted the dissolution of Syria and other states. The European Union has also done so in Yugoslavia in its disastrous foreign policy. The same in Skopje, which we do not see any solidarity in relation to Greece's issue with the Skopje. We have also seen the European Union's foreign policy, which has strengthened the jihadists, at all the lengths and backs of the world by funding and training them. What can we say? Should we say about the European Union of refugees, deChristianisation, immorality, gay parade, the demographic destruction of the whole of the European Union, of terrorism, of the powerless European Union to face up to Islamic terrorism, which has flooded across Europe, of the Eurocrat, who cannot protect himself and we want to come to protect our borders and borders across Europe against any threats? Or for the Schengen Treaty, which should be abolished, why is it perhaps the best way to secure the borders of each country and not to see some countries applying it and others not? That is why, Mr Kumucako, gentlemen of the New Democracy, the Eurosceptics are real Europeans. They are the ones who really love Europe and do not love everything you have previously - perhaps before - you wish. And they go up, no matter how much you're trying to gold up the pill and reassure. We saw it in Britain, we saw it in France, we saw it in Germany - we are looking at it otherwise - in Austria, which was forced to reopen elections, so that the nationalist does not come out, we see it everywhere, and we will see it sooner or later in 2019. Why? Does the security offered by the current European Union have anything to do with it, which is what the real Europeans see? The chaos of the open borders? The morality of the Eurosceptics, in relation to the immorality of the parties of vetarians and paedophiles present in the Netherlands, Germany and elsewhere? The countries and nations that Eurosceptics want with regard to Soros, the non-governmental organisations and the multiculturalism, which all of you want, which you want this European Union, led to the cliff? In the institution of the family, do the Eurosceptics want to see the third sexes and gay parade and everything that is happening in Europe? Or what Eurosceptics want is a Christian Europe against all of you Islamists, in the alpha or beta way? Let us also see the statistics of the European Union: 72% of Europeans believe that the European Union is moving in the wrong direction. 77% of the new Greeks think that the European Union is the cause of their destruction and 48% of the Greeks no longer accepts the European Union. Or should we talk about some financial indicators? In 1981 the deficit was 9.1% or 32.8% as a percentage of GDP and we reached 2017, with the very good and beneficial benefits of the European Union, the debt being at 200% of gross national product. Gentlemen of the New Democracy, the future of the European Union has an end date, as the Stratfor study says, reflecting the raw reality. The European Union and the euro die slowly, tortureously and you cannot do anything. Perhaps, it says the Stratfor study, the European Union survives, but somehow at economic, political, military level, bilateral or limited multilateral relations will dominate and will not cover a wide range, will not be binding. Apart from Greece, where you are all trying, the parties of the 'constitutional arch' - within many introductorys - to keep Greece as the last wheel of the car, as a parable to this European Union, who dies. We're talking about rajadism, all of its majesty. As I have said, all these Europeans, who are slowly awakening, showed him the way.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u124	Mr. Panayotus, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u125	I shall conclude, Madam President, with two proposals. European integration, which you all talk so much about, is more reminiscent of the completion of the rapist towards his victim and has nothing to do with what should be the case in the European Union. Europe will be reconstituted, re-birthed, and this will only be done on the nations - states, in the Europe of homelands and Christianity. Your Europe is ending. The new Europe, which the nations and the people want, is coming.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u126	Ladies and gentlemen, before I call on the JRC parliamentary representative, I would like to make a statement. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the southern theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, twenty-two members of the Association of "Home of Europe of Athens". The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I do not know if you were aware of the agenda, because we are discussing precisely the future of Europe, or you have come to the heart of it. In any case, thank you. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u127	The Communist Party of Greece denounces in the working class the new political crime, in which the SYRIZA - ANEL Government proceeded on 18.00 against the working class and its rights. It is a challenge to the amendment which you have brought like thieves. This action is a definition of political ruthlessness, gentlemen of the government. In this disgraceful way you validate the closure of the third evaluation, which will bring new anti-grass and anti-grass measures, breaking the lives of the working class and the rest of the populace. Your government was the manipulator of capital. It gives forgiveness to the demands of imperialism, and now you are seeking to break the highest right, the greatest conquest of the working class: the right to strike. False and mock with this act the blood and sacrifices of the working class all over the earth to secure its rights. You are ruthless in the face of the need to implement all the measures which serve its capital and its institutions, such as the European Union. That is why you are crediting the political representatives of the European Union and the United States International Monetary Fund every day. You are sad, because like thieves, you are bringing the amendment to discuss tomorrow with an urgent procedure, because you think that you will catch the working class in sleep, that it will not be time for workers to organise their reaction. You're deeply laughed. You will find them in front of you on the streets every day, culminating in the strike on December 14, gentlemen of the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u128	A lasting strike must be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u129	Don't be irony. Should you be ashamed of what you're doing and you're ironing over?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u130	Don't waste time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u131	You swear me. I'm not talking badly about you. When they iron you, what should I do?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u132	You guys are smacking the right. You guys act like thieves. You're making these political deceit. So your face should be seen in the mirror.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u133	Let's get to the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u134	We are here, Madam President, because this is precisely why these measures are shielded and imposed by the European Union in all the Member States. Why is the European Union? It's nothing but an imperialist organism. A regional association of capitalist states that its ultimate aim is to shield the interests of monopolistic groups and to break the rights and life of the working class and the rest of the workers. It is a challenge to mention that the European Union is a vision of the Communists on the part of the Minister. It was a vision of Europe's darkest and reactionary circles, precisely so that they could be opposed to socialism and socialist camps and be able to play the advanced penitentiary against the conquests of the socialist countries and at the same time shield the interests of monopolistic groups. In conditions of increased competition and opposition to the sharing and redistribution of markets and wealth-producing sources, what the European Union is seeking is precisely to shield the interests of its multinational enterprises. And how does he do that? Through the generalised attack on all the Member States, against working rights, against working classes, to reduce wages, to abolish fixed working hours, in order to abolish collective rights and collective agreements, so that it can only increase the degree of exploitation of the working class. To demolish the social rights of workers and the people, on the other hand, by offering the various crumbs of so-called social solidarity and, on the other hand, by bringing about even more distraction between the wealth produced and the possibilities available at the level of satisfying the needs of the workers and the rest of the people's strata. To impose budgetary discipline, in order for the people to pay the brokens of the capitalist crisis and its system, by imposing the European semester, the Stability Pact, automatic cuts against wages, pensions and other rights. It goes on to release the market through the opening of the so-called closed professions, to break down the professionals, the self-employed and to throw them out of the market, so that it can be even more monopolised. Through the Common Agricultural Policy you are depriving poor medium-sized farms and concentrating the agricultural land on less and less hands for the benefit of capitalist enterprises operating in the rural economy. You are going to shield the European Union from slandering any radical perceptions and opinions. You identify communism with Nazism. It is the official policy of the European Union and, indeed, the European Union itself, supports right-wing parties, exploits neo-nazi organisations and parties, as it has done in Ukraine, is making progress in the violent repression of workers', collective and individual rights. It even moves on to the militarisation of the European Union, in order to protect even with weapons the power of capital both within and outside, in order to protect the interests of monopolistic groups and multinationals of the European Union, where land supports imperialist interventions, leading to the suffering, the horrors of the peoples of all the earth. All the debate on the future of the European Union reflects nothing but the exacerbation of anisometry, the individual contradictions within the European Union. It reflects the rote as a whole of the capitalist system and these debates do not at all question its imperialist character, namely that it is an organization hostile to the interests and rights of the peoples of the peoples of the European Union themselves. The European acquis is the acquis communautaire of capital in order to break people's lives in the name of armoring competitiveness and capitalist profitability. And no matter how much debates take place, it will not alter this character, instead it will lead to even more reactionary, anti-popular and anti-popular directions. From this point of view, we believe - and life itself confirms this - that the European Union, like the capitalist system, is not being humanised. And those who believe that, it's like they think the sun comes out of the west. The only way out is the release through the struggle of peoples from the European Union and the rest of the imperialist organisations, including this release in the overthrow of the power of the bourgeoisie from the working class and its allies, the socialisation of the monopolistic groups, central planning and labour control. In this very effort, the Communist Party of Greece will each day organize the struggle of the people, so that the anti-grass plans, anti-grass plans and planning of the bourgeoisie, which the SYRIZA - ANEL government is refreshingly trying to implement.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u135	It will be preceded now - after consultation - by the Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres, by Mr Saridis and then by Mr Katsikis by the ANELs. Mr. Saridis, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u136	Do not exaggerate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u137	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u138	Be a little more polite.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u139	Yes, that's right, we see how you treat workers! Your graciousness has turned out to be!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u140	If you want to be in Parliament, do not exaggerate...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u141	Nah, will we get your permission?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u142	Mr. Karathanasopoulos, Mr. Dousina, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u143	Do not exaggerate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u144	You're abusive to the people and workers!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u145	Mr. Karathanasopoulos, calm down! Mr. Saridis, start.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u146	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the enemies of chaos are by definition allies of democracy. And the greatest of the enemies of chaos is paper and pencil. So let's get paper and pencil. We very often admit in this Chamber that the level of information and the level of information for citizens, not only prescribe their social behaviour and activity, but also define the quality of our democracy. The more informed the citizens of a country, the better informed they are, the stronger democracy, the stronger its institutions are. In that, at least, we all agree with the words, because from the result, it turns out to be against the will of our fellow citizens that the domestic political system serves chaos. Unfortunately, in Greece, disinformation and ambiguity, half-words and implied voices and cries are completely dominated in the political scene. Where one expected to hear arguments, one faces the use of yellow - colored newspaper sheets that have become yellow from time to time or from money. At a time when our fellow citizens are struggling for tomorrow, which does not only seem uncertain, but also seems dangerous, and they are waiting for us, politicians, to present them with the reasoning we follow in our thinking, we are, on the contrary, memorizing and struggling party narratives. While we are waiting for the Erdogan visit, we have not said anything about this issue in this Chamber and we are letting our fellow citizens make their own conclusions on the Samara - Erdogan agreement in 2013, on what it means to the current government and whether or not the current government has honoured the agreement or not with the recent arrest of the nine Turks. How serious we are dealing with the situation and how much we respect the Greek people's will to consult on national issues is how we deal with the issue of Muslim law. At first the government wanted to deal with it with an amendment. We are glad to see that at the end of the day a bill is coming on such a serious issue that the government went through as a small issue. The Prime Minister himself recently questioned in public by Xanthi how many people know that the only place in Europe to be implemented by the Sharia, namely the Muslim law, is Thrace. I would also like to ask why I have tried twice to make the Prime Minister talk to me about this issue, but it has not been possible - how many people are aware of the existence and importance of the bill that we have tabled, which comes to be discussed in committees and supposedly solved the problem? Ladies and gentlemen, you have also legislated other bills - a bunch of bills - with the sole argument of human rights, and on the issue of Muslim law, which is also a big human rights issue, just recently, two years later, we have legislated - some other bills before - perhaps for some other reasons. But on such serious issues we are coming after a holiday. This bill is brought by the relevant Minister of Education, Mr.Gavroglou, who is also concerned with his own situation in relation to the management of dispersion issues, as is the case in Marioupolis. The Minister should explain to us how such a bill is presented at the last minute, two days before the Erdogan visit to our country. How many of our fellow citizens will be misinformed about the content of this bill? Is anyone who had been informed about the content of the amendment to the Xanthi Turkish Union? Did those who were informed about the Turkish diplomats who disappeared this year from the Turkish Consulate? Ladies and gentlemen, it is wrong, in the view of the Centro Association, that Certification has chosen to question the European profile of the government two days before the Erdogan visit, because Mr Erdogan does not come to Greece, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Erdogan is coming to Europe. He will not meet the Greek President of the Republic, but the only European President, who is still speaking with Mr Erdogan. Turkey will meet Europe as a whole. It will address all western democracies and Turkey's future will be judged by its behaviour in the lands of Greece. We are waiting for Mr Erdogan as representatives of democracy and European culture. In this context, therefore, the Centroon Union refuses to take part in a proactive debate, which, in our view, is outside the matter and out of time. If we wanted to be on the subject, we should be wondering what luck Greece's objection would have to the attempted closure of the European borders and the de facto abolition of the Schengen Treaty, an objection which we have all expressed in the relevant committees, but which we all know is not going to be heard by anyone. This says a lot about whether our country is ready to deal with situations that will be imposed on it, against its will. So by taking, ladies and gentlemen, paper and pencil, the conclusion is simple: now is the time that we all have to stop dealing with anything else, look into the eyes of the Turk, at the same time offering him a hope and a warning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u147	Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks Mr Konstantinos Katsikis speaks.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I address you to those of us who have left the Chamber. In fact, two of the questioners of the Officerial Representation remained listening to us, too, to be placed on the subject. I would like to thank you very much, because with your current question you are obviously showing your interest in the future of Europe. But you do so in a way that really concerns you. For on the one hand, you are talking about what we do not do in relation to European integration and the country's participation in it and on the other, you do not do your self-criticism. I do not think that, when it is heard in this Chamber - quite rightly - we must follow a common European strategy, but without proposals. The current government has often stressed that it is very important for there to be a common line of coexistence and coexistence, at least in national matters and what is linked to Europe and the European Union, of which we are members. However, the opposite proves within this Chamber, when either following previous topical questions from the previous days you want to continue political confrontation or with a sterile policy, which you are expressing, you want to pass messages of party benefit against national lines. Indeed, it would be a good thing if we all had taken a common course of national issues together. Ladies and gentlemen, it was a real question to me when I read the contents of the many questions that constitute your topical question. I will respond directly to them with a place and a date: Pyukas, 7 September 2017. I really wonder: How are you doing this today and talking about a weak government, without a strategy and without a dynamic involvement in the process of dialogue on the future of Europe and the course of the European Union? The Greek Government, just two months ago, referred to the President of France by Pineca by the Prime Minister himself, Alexis Tsipras, the need to redesign Europe with targeted positions and proposals. The preamble, in essence, to the launch of this dialogue - which you also asked about for the future of Europe - on the need to transform Europe, on the establishment of new institutions for the transformation of the European Union while at the same time reintroducing the national sovereignty of the Member States and further expansion of democracy was made by the sacred area of Pineca. Alexis Tsipras and Emmanuel Makron have defined the key themes of European dialogue that will contribute to Europe's most democratic transformation and rebuild confidence among Member States. Greece is already actively involved in all the work relating to the transformation of Europe. If this is not a part of the debate on the future of Europe, really, I wonder: How could anyone characterize it and identify it? The Greek Prime Minister publicly supports the need to deepen European institutions, the establishment of a Eurozone Minister for Economic and Social Cohesion and the creation of a European pillar of social rights, including by putting the need for greater convergence and solidarity on the agenda. The Greek foreign policy is multidimensional. Greece is present on the European continent and not just actively involved, but it combines the agenda of the dialogue on the common future of the countries of Europe. In any case, ladies and gentlemen of Officerial Representation, the topical and urgent questions are dealt with in a timely manner. In support of this, Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure stipulates that, in matters of immediate topicality, Members are entitled to ask questions. The text of the question must be of up to date. So - I place myself in this way, forgive me - I do not understand the need to submit this question at that time. However, having already answered, I would like in turn to ask you: Where exactly are you locating Greece's lack of active participation in this pan-European public dialogue? Where do you track it? You didn't tell us. You did not tell us where we did not take a position, we did not have any proposals, we did not have this dialogue which you have pointed out to us in a way which I honestly cannot see where you are basing this argument. How exactly do you argue about the Greek Government's negative criticism of the European Union? Eventually I don't know you have such a weak memory or are you not following the positions of the Greek Government in the European and international scene? What exactly is going on? Unless, in the end, this is not the purpose of your question today, unless you just want to maintain, as I have said before, the public dialogue with other subjects outside this agenda. In any case, I urge you once again from this step by the Greek Parliament to finally change your micro-party attitude and your short-sighted logic. The current SYRIZA - ANEL Government is determined to take the country out of the deadlock in which you led it. The present government is giving solutions which you have failed to give and will continue its work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u149	Thank you. The last parliamentary representative, Mr Spyros Danellis, from Potami, has the floor and the whole procedure is closed with the parliamentary representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, they say that families are loved until it is time to clear up the legacy. Thus Europeans have been living on a permanent basis in the last few decades, under the regime of almost peaceful ignorance to each other, but proud of their common course, which seemed to touch other levels with the single currency, until the moment of the economic crisis when it seemed that the king was naked. Yet the project of European unification and its integration is the most revolutionary and innovative attempt to stabilise the European continent in its history. So she managed to escape her deserving historical past and to be an oasis of peace, stability and democracy in a world of ever-increasing destabilization. Is it enough, however, to remember the historic course to justify the European Union's current need for the consciousness of its citizens? The Europeans today are a minority. Euroscepticism is increasingly gaining ground in reverential European confrontations. Beyond the recession and austerity, the Union's failure to deal with new challenges, such as refugee - immigration or terrorism, have strayed European citizens and, of course, the European Union, in the absence of the will of its citizens, is impossible. In the ten years of the economic crisis, a new centre of power has emerged, the government of the euro area with its central body Eurogroup. The functioning outside the European Treaties, the opacity and the lack of democratic legitimacy, since it is not accountable anywhere, raise the question of the democratic functioning of the Union and eliminate the confidence of citizens. Jurgen Hubermas described it as a post-democratic dismissal. It is therefore an absolute priority to reintroduce representative democracy at the centre of European economic policies. Tomorrow, Wednesday, the President of the European Commission, Jean-Claude Juncker, is going to announce the package of proposals for EMU. The Yunker proposals, like the Macronne ideas, are of particular interest to Europe, since they are part of a logic of communitisation of the European Union's existing problematic intergovernmental operation. At the same time, we cannot ignore the request for a sovereign, united, democratic Europe, as Macron said in his ideas, which he initially submitted to Pineca and then more specifically to Sorbonne. But it must be understood, or it must be understood, that economic deepening, however much as it is done, is not enough for European unification. Only sovereignty, European sovereignty, can guarantee citizens the basic good and right of security as a State obligation, as well as the management of supranational procedures - international trade, financial transactions, etc. - while protecting social cohesion and democratic conquests. As contradictory as it may seem, the Union, despite the multiple crisis, the painful Brexit, the rise of populists and extreme right-wings, is attempting the big leap forward. In the redesign of the European Union, in the search for its new architecture, where everything shows that we are leading to enhanced and upgraded cooperation in specific fields, Greece's geopolitical position makes it a key partner in the circle that has to do with its defence and security. Role, too, is crucial for our country to play in the circles of the common European energy policy, the gravity of which should not be ignored. Last Wednesday, Vice-President Katainen, responsible for employment, development and competitiveness, with Commissioner Hogan, responsible for agriculture and rural development, presented their proposals for another sector, which primarily concerns us as a country, the future of food and agriculture, for a flexible, fair and sustainable common agricultural policy. Features have said that today's communication ensures that somewhere it will contribute to the realisation of new and emerging objectives, such as promoting intelligent and resilient agriculture, strengthening environmental protection and climate action and strengthening socio-economic tissue in the countryside. They also stated that a new implementing system would be introduced which would offer Member States, regions with a much greater degree of subsidiarity. In other words, unfortunately, we are taking the renationalisation of institutional tools and fatal financial resources to support agriculture. It is well known that in the middle of the 2014-2020 multiannual programming framework, the Union budget has been derailed because, in other words, the costs of the refugee - immigration that had not been foreseen, of major disasters, of natural disasters and of Brexit, with great damage, of course, to the forced review of the CAP and of the Cohesion Fund, namely, of the two most important sources of European resources for our country. For all the above, how much are we preparing and how much are we present in the critical consultations of all levels? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I just need a minute, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no improvisation or party selfishness and controversy in these matters. We must be wiser, reconciled through self-awareness and self-criticism with the reality that we are so avoiding, because anti-Europeanism of the anti-European speech - whether it was expressed in the Zappeli, which must not be forgotten, or in the squares of the indignant - has in both cases led to power, but it has, however, cost political time, money and excessive sacrifices in a society that still cannot find its way and its immersion and its place in the European family. Minister, we have no right to appear inferior to circumstances that seem to be evolving. The toxic climate in internal political life must in no way affect the country's essential presence and participation in historically important ongoing discussions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, Mr Dannelly, and respect for the time. I'll call Mr. Kalafatis at the Step. Mr Kalafatis, because it is not planned to replace Mr Javarra as well, I would ask you to be as brief as you can in time. Normally, you have five minutes. Mr. Javarras has five more, because he has already spoken for sixteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u152	I'll try to be consistent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u153	Madam President, the other questions are second.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u154	I don't see anyone else about that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u155	I'm not Mr. Javarras.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u156	I see you, Mr. Kumucako! Of course I will give you the floor. There was a request from Mr. Javarra to speak with Mr. Kalafatis and I referred to his time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u157	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'll try not to exhaust him and not to exhaust you. Minister, with your position you have finally deserved all the concerns we have expressed. We believed - and finally this is what you have shown in your position - that the problem that this government has to confuse and go hand in hand with European developments, that is to say, that it is a genuine expression of the European vision and that it can interact with the other European forces in its future, is something that is very difficult. It creates a substantial intolerance to this fact. It is a very difficult project for a government, which in the end has a strong anti-European element, so intense that, many times, even when it comes from the developments, the SYRIZA party cannot really contribute to the extent that the circumstances and needs of the times and the points of time, which are very important, require. There is, of course, the problem of SYRIZA's diverse concept. I have here specific moves of the well-known fifty three MPs, that is, a party within the party, which refers to the need to overthrow the data and to the fact that European social democracy remains largely caught in the alliance with neoliberalism. These are communications, which have been made on 14-12-2016 through the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group and the so-called "Group of 53". So here we have an intrinsic difficulty for the SYRIZA party to share the European vision. This is, of course, the result of your position in general. It is therefore important to underline this intolerance. After all, it is also expressed in the strong division and way in which you are facing the European vision, Minister. You know, the New Democracy was primarily that political force, which expressed the need for unity, for a common European vision. This is where we see SYRIZA not being able to follow this path. I will refer only to the slogans that have prevailed on your agenda and the election agenda which, of course, were also implemented in Europe and not just within Greece: 'Or we or no one'! Your positions, I thought, would be different from the Greek Parliament, that is, different from those I've seen through your position in the media. You insist that the Left should come over and overthrow everything. You feel that the Left is Europe and that is our main difference. Our parliamentary representative, Mr Javarras, told you otherwise. We are thinking European for Europe. You are thinking left of Europe. And this is something that is very difficult to bring results and - if you want - to us is also dangerous. And that's why it can't work. Apart from having a diverse way of dealing with things, in addition to the inherent difficulties you have within your space, the problem is even more structural. It's not your DNA. You didn't defend it, you can't defend it now. Draw from the developments, you are being drawn from a dialogue, which you have actually said has been exhausted by two three committees within the House and a conference. But the meaning of all this cosmogenicity that's been going on for two years is different. It is precisely the innovation of this European Union's awareness by Mr Juncker's own committee that we need to improve Europe, that we need to heal our weaknesses, demand and impose - and this has happened - a different approach to things, namely, that we should be able to have a different type of debate, not that European bureaucracy should come from above and impose political norms down, without the involvement of the citizens, but that a reverse course should be followed, that there should be a bottom-up consultation. That is why it was a basic requirement for this innovative dialogue process to involve social groups in the Member States to promote dialogue and motivate the governments of the Member States - social actors, institutes, local authorities, organised civil groups to participate in this dialogue. This is what we say has not been done by your own government, and indeed by a government, which is supposed to defend and retain for itself this democratic, let us say, a spirit that stumbles upon it. So we see that there are problems on the ground. But there is something else, Minister, which you have said and said it elsewhere. It is a question of the social dimension of EMU. First of all, we all know that the social dimension of EMU is a key element in the overall project of economic integration, namely economic union, which is also monetary union. This, of course, is not your approach. Do not go to the society that your participation is that you put social Europe in the first line. Social Europe has been one of the priorities of the Juncker Committee at the outset. This is reflected in the political guidelines issued in July 2014. Mr. Juncker has a specific reason to refer to. Also, on the social dimension of EMU, Mr Juncker himself told the European Parliament in his election as Chairman of the Committee: 'I want Europe to devote its efforts to becoming a triple A on social issues in the same way as it means to be triple A in the financial and economic sense'. Therefore, the need for a greater approach to the deeper social issues of the European Union, European society and European citizens is a priority already set by the European Union. It is not something that you are bringing to the fore and you must not give rise to this mistaken impression. I close my position by saying that in general your behaviour is very problematic. There are many examples, Mr Minister, which would give us the opportunity to describe you as fearful and inappropriate, many times even in the criticism you are making. Of course the European Union is being criticised. We're the first to criticize. But your criticism has a different spirit. You are drowsy in a different spirit. You want to locate the mistakes of the European Union in order to achieve your main political objective, which is to get the Left over and correct all the bad texts. We want to improve the functioning of the European Union, and that is why we are putting our own programmes in a positive position. In addition to the double face of Janus, there are transformations. Suddenly, while you were talking about "Olandreus" the socialist, you come and you become friends with central McCron. You know this shows an opportune attitude to serious issues concerning tomorrow's Europe. Of course, I do not forget to refer to the contradictory messages you are emitted. The government of SYRIZA likes to speak with symbols and use symbols just to invest more in the emotional burden of citizens and thus often fool them. But on foreign policy, you know that there are problems. The fact of the presence of the government through the Prime Minister at Castro's funeral - which was the only country from the West that was present at such a high level and I think at every level - is support for the Maduro government at the same time as you want to be at the frontline in terms of the West, you realise that it sends many contradictory messages. It is also contradictory, of course, because you are setting the priority for the Minister for Social Cohesion, as I have told you in my prototype, while at the same time with specific policies you are coming and smuggling social cohesion within the country itself. That is why, Minister, I believe you have a long way to go to get to a point where you can play an important role for European events, for the future of Europe. We always have a positive attitude and specific positions for a better future of Europe, and we will always be here to defend it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u158	Thank you. Mr. Kumucaco, you've all exhausted your time and that's why they've gone away from what I understand. Now I've noticed. You've been left for a minute and a half. I'll give you three, but try, because we have to finish at 21.15.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u159	You're very generous, Madam President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u160	Twice! I'm good, aren't I? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u161	It is also interesting to discuss. You will allow me, before I begin this three-minute period, to make a very brief comment on the intervention of the representative of the Communist Party of Greece. We have seen, ladies and gentlemen, the Left, the true Left, the Left of ideological consistency, as well as the Oportunist Left, i.e. the ideologically ideologically ideological left, which leaves ideologies, which forgets principles in order to remain in power. I had to write that down. It was a hard time for you, Minister, what happened a moment ago. I read a tweet: 'Who do we want the European Union to be in the 21st century? This debate must be opened in Europe with sincerity and courage at a time when the correlations are changing." This tweet was made about twenty minutes ago by the Minister of Foreign Affairs. What do we want Europe to be in the 21st century? This debate must be opened. So, what strategy are we talking about? Here we have a public assumption that the debate will just begin. In previous years when the major European debates were taking place when the debate on the future of Europe started in Greece and the other capitals, we were aware of the main objectives of the political forces, their basic directions. This isn't it. Here we have a ghost strategy. We're listening for strategy, for opinions, for positions. Who are these? It starts with a fundamental question. There is a debate on a multi-speed Europe. We, as a New Democracy, say that we want to be at first speed, because and typically we are a first-speed state. We are participating in Schengen, we are participating in EMU, we are participating in European defence and security, we want to be at the top speed. We'll try, we'll do our best to stay, because that's where we belong. To belong essentially. You, Minister, want to be at first gear? And if this first speed is neoliberal, in your opinion, would you like to stay? Are you interested in the first speed for the first speed or conditional? This is something you must clarify. It's a basic guideline. We also say a strong Europe and a member of it a strong Greece. Do you want a strong Europe or a left Europe? This is a matter of great direction and direction. These questions are not funny. So this is what we ask you today: what are the broad guidelines? How do you answer these fundamental questions? It's not a shape of speech. It's a matter of fact. Europe needs repairs and not demolition. I respond here to some nationalist krone that has been heard from the dark right-wing sections of the House. We do not want the dark continent that the peoples were slaughtering each other under the pressure of nationalism again. We want a united Europe of peace and creativity, and so we will go, because that is what we believe is good for the continent, for its peoples, for Greece. We do not want to go back to the dark times where Europeans lived and suffered in a true civil society that annulled their culture, which then destroyed their present present and, fortunately, became a lesson to claim and build a better future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Mr. Kumucako. We will now give the floor to the Minister to close our debate today. Here, Minister, you have the floor for ten minutes, but try to be shorter if you can.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u163	I remind you that I have my tritology, but I'll try to finish in the quarter.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u164	Yeah, but you've gotten out of protology, that's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u165	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u166	I'm a very good accountant.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u167	We won't fight. You know I appreciate you and I love you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u168	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u169	Ladies and gentlemen, if something emerged from the debate, it is our view that this is the first time that the country has so specific proposals for the future of Europe and, indeed, for the first time, the scope of these proposals goes beyond the geographical boundaries of a not small but not large European country, precisely because it has an ideological mark and because it responds to the structural causes of the crisis. I have heard from both sides of industry the question 'Do you want a strong or a left-wing Europe'? Mr Kalafatis "We are talking about Europe, you are talking about the Left". You know, Rolan Bart was writing about national politics that for the right only the Left is making politics. She represents the nation. That is what you are saying to us today, namely that only the Left has a specific policy for Europe. You represent Europe yourself. You are actually representing Europe's present policy - with what you said -'recently need minor corrections' - which, unfortunately, is the abstract neoliberalism of the last two decades of economic orthodoxism, which, if it is not radically overturned both in terms of the substance of its policies and in terms of the vacuum of democracy that it applies to them, will dismantle Europe. With regard to the other remarks, I will also respond to these irrelevants, although I still regard Parliament as not a good tactic to appear inconsistently. If I understood it correctly, in fact, by the Parliamentary spokesman of the Central Association, we were accused of being out of the question - I mean those who spoke about the question - why we had to talk about topical issues. There was a position in which, despite the differences in style, Mr Karathanasopoulos and Mr Javaras told us: 'Don't talk about the European Union and the Left. The European Communities have essentially been established by the forces of centre-democracy and social democracy. This is partly correct, but essentially wrong. It is not only wrong because there were indeed parts of the Communist Left - the Toliati party was a communist party - that supported the European perspective, but mainly because the welfare state and European policy itself are a compromise within the framework of the market system, the capitalist system. All conquests, which it has incorporated in institutions, have been a result of the struggles of the working class since the 19th century. All of it! Both social rights and the eighth and redistributive policies! So it is not right to say that all we have today as social conquests is solely the result of social compromises. So on the other issues which have been raised, I will say a few things about the road. As far as the issues concerning Turkey and Erdogan are concerned, on the part of the New Democracy, while you say that we should try to get as much consultation as possible, often with your contradictory policy, undoing this original right, asking for absurd things. For example, you are asking for the Minister of Foreign Affairs to come and place himself on the negotiating positions he will have on a number of issues which are clearly not discussed in the context of foreign policy in the context of the analytical nature of other issues of public dialogue. Because, after all, in the context of the general principles of foreign policy, which are being discussed at the National Council for Foreign Policy, we do not confront the other issues, the government governs and opposition controls. As far as Saudi Arabia is concerned, I am still stressing that, apart from the person involved in the introduction into an unrelated parliamentary procedure, this is an attempt to keep a non-existent point of view in the foam. This is evidenced by the fact that only two parties continue this supposed scandal to want to keep it on the surface, to be more precise, I would say some of the Members of these two parties. Above all, what I am pointing out again is that all this effort, scandalous parties showing that we are bored with a scandal, has collapsed. Has it collapsed for the simple reason that the only legal issue in the case that raises all that has been heard, in the interests of mediation, about the possibility of other missiles being delivered to Saudi Arabia depends on a single legal issue: Was there competence? Has the natural person who signed the agreement acted as a representative of Saudi Arabia? If, as it turns out, this is the case, it is not legally possible for the Government to do so. And just when the documents were produced and it seemed that there was proxy, the New Democracy's reply was that these documents are unorthodox, that the translation from Arabic to English, as it should have been, is not written. These are misguided excuses trying, as I have said again, to keep the shading of a supposed scandal alive. As far as the questions are concerned, why did the ambassador not initiate proceedings, I would say that there are no proceedings against persons. There are procedures to investigate illegal acts. Indeed, the leaking of classified documents is a malicious act at the level of criminal law and at the level of administrative - disciplinary law is a serious offence. That is why, since September, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has ordered a pre-examination and a sworn administrative examination, and the responsibilities will be attributed. They're asking us why we didn't call the ambassador. Are you sure that the ambassador is responsible? How can you know that? Is that not contradictory, this complaint, the 'why do you not withdraw it', with other objections that I have heard from the same party, such as 'hands down, do not touch it'? All of this shows nothing more than trying to build a scandal without the conditions being met for it. National Medicines Agency. Our country ranked seventeen among nineteen candidates. The preparation was good. We appeared in the House in a special procedure. The relevant dossier was supported by cooperation between the public, private and research academic sector. Seventh position is not a place that underestimates our country, considering that we were over France, over Germany, over cities like Vienna. I think this is part of a petty opposition practice. Because if you really had something to testify to us in the preparation, you had to tell us within the parliamentary procedure and not beyond. Schengen Controls. Indeed, not only does Germany carry out the checks on flights made by our airports, but Austria and Denmark and Sweden and recently Sweden which are not in the European Union but are in the Schengen countries have activated re-checks at internal borders. We strongly protested because we felt that they were not from somewhere, nor were they invoked by the relevant provisions of the Schengen Convention, which allows such behaviour. There have been démarches at Brussels, Berlin and during a recent trialogue with the European Commission. The German side accepted the self-evident view that checks should be carried out within the Schengen area and not outside, as they have done so far and in a way that protects the dignity of the persons controlled. Obviously we are not satisfied, even with this improvement, and we insist on that, namely that the Schengen area is a free movement area and must be preserved as such. Anti-Communism is not an official European Union policy. Indeed, because of our reaction, there was representation in Estonia at a low level of nineteen states, but only six - maybe fewer - but certainly not more than six - Ministers for Justice were represented, precisely because it is not possible to impose such monochromatism on the political ideology of the European Union, which cannot have such a political ideology, particularly one that overturns historical data and what really happened during the Second World War. Finally, although it is outside the competence of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, simply because it has been set up by a decent man, Mr Javarra, I say the following two things about social benefits. Firstly, everyone will get it, income alone and are the criteria alone, so no one, much more a disabled person, as the parliamentary representative has said by mistake. Secondly, it is obvious that the financing of this dividend paid out by the single social security institution has been made. What the Minister of Labour said is self-evident, namely that there was an over-performance on the revenues of EFKA, rather than a collapse in the process of collecting contributions, as the mistresses said before, there was, on the contrary, a surplus. Is that what he did? It limited that portion of the money that the state budget would cover the deficit of the single body. We therefore do not have funding from the contributions, but we do have funding from this general over-reimbursement of revenue. Finally, in order to make a cyclical argument and to close approximately as I started, Spinelli's daughter was elected a MEP with a list of unique ones referring to a leader of another country. He was therefore elected as the only government in which the radical left is expressed, following on from the outset those who wanted another Europe, but also an opportunity for this Europe to take flesh and bone, to have the way its peoples want and not those who so far gain from institutional geometry and from the direction that its policies have taken. On the occasion of my presentation, because I forgot to present a document that was tabled at the end of March 2017 to the European Commission in the debate launched with the White Paper. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister, George Katrugalos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And just again for the Minutes, although I said it because it was questioned that we tried a detailed dialogue on these issues, to say the dates and the themes of the meetings of the relevant parliamentary committees: On 22 March 2017, therefore, the Special Standing Committee on European Affairs meets with the subject, precisely what we have discussed today: 'The White Paper on the future of Europe'. On June 8, 2017, the same Special Permanent Committee on European Affairs, at a joint meeting with the Committee on National Defence, Foreign Affairs and Education discusses the theme: "Open Dialogue for Europe, challenges and prospects for democracy, rights and economic policy". On 17 July 2017, the Special Standing Committee on European Affairs and the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs welcomed Commissioner Etinger on the subject: "Reason documents on the future of the European Union's finances as part of the White Paper process" for the future of Europe. Finally, on 8 November 2017, we had a joint meeting of the Special Standing Committee on European Affairs and the Standing Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs on the subject: "BREXIT and the implications for the future of the European Union". So all this goes without saying, precisely because we are the only ones who have specific proposals, we want these proposals to be subject to public debate. Obviously, we agree with the proposals that have been heard, they must not only be confined within Parliament, but rather have a broader resonance, namely to discuss with society again and not just with the scientists. It is something that we can plan, along with the initiatives that you will take as a Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u170	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to Parliament under Rule 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 "In respect of criminal liability of the Ministers", as is the case, on 8-11-2017, a criminal case for the Minister of National Defence Mr Panagiotis Kammenos. The debate is adjourned under number 8/6/1-11-2017 on the subject of "Without strategic and active participation Greece in the dialogue on the future of Europe". Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-04-S1-commons.u171	With the consent of the House at 21.16 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday 5 December 2017 at 12.00 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: legislative work, according to the agenda that has been distributed to you.
