ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: 'Amendments to the provisions of forestry legislation and other provisions'. I will give the speaker the floor from the list in order. It's Mr. Stavros Arachovitis. Come on, Mr. Arachovitis, you have seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin my speech by referring to the amendment number 1009 and number 125, which refers to the amendment of certain provisions of the Fisheries Code. The reform of the institutional framework for the exploitation of fish-farmers in the inland waters of the country, i.e. lakes and lakes, is required by the fact that these are productive ecosystems, most of which are protected, and are engaged in traditional fishing holdings from which catches of high quality are exported. The way they are managed is, with the existing legislation, to the 1970s, where the Fishing Code 4420 of the 1970s was passed, which is far from the modern requirements and changes that have taken place in the years. The main aims of the amendments are therefore: firstly, the improvement of the operation of employed fishing cooperatives. Secondly, the fortification of the viability of fishing holdings without, however, the challenge of spending on the State budget from this amendment. Thirdly, to facilitate the implementation of the necessary interventions in logistical facilities to support the activity of public farms. For these reasons, I would ask the Minister as he accepts the amendment and colleagues of all the parties to support it. The bill under discussion is a product of serious effort to regulate specific issues relating to rural land. It comes to adapt the legislation to the reality, rural and economic, which has not dared to attempt any other government to date. And it makes us particularly surprised, ladies and gentlemen, to see colleagues here pouring crocodile tears, either for farmers or for the forest. Aren't you, ladies and gentlemen of Anti-Population, with your parties forty years now? Why didn't you dare solve the problems, put the finger on the type of sunshine? But I'll tell you why. Because you preferred to have farmers hostages and to have a client system that brought the country as far as it brought the country. The course of rural land after the war can be characterized by distinct periods, which are rightly attempted by this bill to be separated. It was the estimating of agriculture after the war that supported our country in the difficult years of the Occupation and the postmortem. At this time, the rural population of the country has reacted to technological progress in order to support production, food security, the sustainability of economies in the countryside and to prevent hostility. Of course, mass use of agricultural machinery has shaped the fields, set the margins, dazzled the unscrupulous edges of the fields and, in the end, finally shaped the wonderful and diverse rural landscape of our country. Therefore, with Article 2, which concerns the exploitation of forest land, which was extinguished before 1975, the opportunity is given at a very low purchase price - reduced to 1/4 of the objective - to provide an objective and at the same time a fair solution for the areas which appear as forests in the 1945 aerial photography. Farmers who have been using these land for many decades are still being facilitated, with the price of paying in a hundred instalments, with a minimum payment of 30 euros. In addition, Article 2 of the same article allows micro-enterprises serving agricultural crops located within these areas. So, for the areas before 1975, as we have said, the process can be made very simple, but with Article 4, for the areas which have been evacuated since 1975 to 2007 - although the total price, namely reafforestation and use, is obviously greater than before the '75s, there are similar facilities for the hundreds of doses and 30 euros as a minimum payment. Now, with Article 4, the need for an economic study for land, which is integrated, cultivated and declared in the IACC is abolished. Thus, it is recognised by the legislature that the fact of sustainability is ensured through the statement to the IACC and the farmer saves many costly and bureaucratic procedures imposed by the 2014 law. However, Article 2 again allows micro-enterprises serving agricultural crops. With Article 3, there is room for aquaculture, land-based facilities of a forest nature, so that these undertakings that operate mainly next to our rivers and supply with exceptional catches and products, cease to be in a semi-legal and hostage situation. Under Article 6 on rules for forested fields, arrangements are introduced which are dealing with a large part of the problems, but which must be dealt with directly and with the forested areas grown up until 1945. This draft law therefore solves many of the problems that have accumulated so many years and have emerged with the suspension of forest maps. They are not problems created by forest maps, they have just emerged now. Now remains those involved in the production process, the forestry and farmers, to understand the tools at their disposal, in order to smoothly complete the work of the forest maps, to break the hostage regime for farmers and to continue to pay subsidies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr Arachovitis, for keeping time. Kostas Kokodimos, Member of the New Republic of the Pieria Prefecture (Kosmetora), requests permission from a short-day absence abroad for personal reasons from Thursday 13 April 2017 until Tuesday 18 April 2017. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u4	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Mr Ioannis Sifakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at yesterday's sitting I heard some speeches by colleagues from the opposition who have had an opportunity, up and down, to refer to the Malta pre-agreement, accusing the government. The spokesman for the New Democracy spokesman has done the same. Honestly, I don't want to be tempted to answer, but I really do wonder how courage one can have to change a hundred and eighty degrees in one day. From a position where they said, ‘ Why do you not close the evaluation? If you can't shut it down, let's go and turn it off and vote it all. It's Greece's fault - listen! - the delays in evaluation. The delay costs so many billions in the Greek economy. What are you insisting on left-hand ideas about labour, collective bargaining, etc.", they have now turned the project by saying, "What measures are you going to bring? How much will they burden the Greek people? By diligently hiding the equal countermeasures, hiding the measures that will come to alleviate the public debt, the great effort to reduce the major primary surpluses for many years, to give room for growth, the social state and to reduce the taxation of natural persons and companies." Of course, we have some differences, that they have stopped a little bit of the way of elections in a month or two. Soon as things go ahead, more will be stopped. With regard to the important bill we are debating today, it is quite clear that posting forest maps in conjunction with the Land register is an important, irreplaceable tool for any state to be able to implement policies. The delay of decades in the completion of these development tools is obviously not random and is entirely linked to the support of the former governments through customer relations and 'hards', which would not allow them to be perpetuated. And it is happy that the completion of this important, indeed, work is taking place in the days of this government. On the occasion of the display of forest maps and because of it a number of issues have been inherited from the past, they have been swelled and must be solved. This is where the bill we are discussing today is moving. It gives a solution to the outstanding, many decades ago, issue of the outdated forest land for agricultural use, whether they were fields, abandoned through various social causes, such as immigration and other causes, and again became fields, whether they were evacuated by the farmers of mountain settlements, in order to increase the small lot and at the same time to increase their production and income. These actions were not controlled by the State, they were created and the farmers declared these areas to the IACC, they received subsidies, they received compensation, etc. It is therefore necessary to end this matter with the legalisation of these areas, either by granting them ownership if they are prior to the 1975 Constitution, with the alternative of granting in use, if they do not want to take the property, or by authorizing an intervention on forest land for rural use after 1975 until 2007. The large reduction in the price to 1/4 of the objective value or in the absence of this market value and its regulation in a hundred instalments is a strong incentive to implement this decision. Even in some areas, in some pre-existing settlements of 1923, which do not yet have titles or are awarded contracts with jury statements of residents and courts, arrangements are made that solve problems of ownership or legal use. In my area, in Pella, I am sure that in the mountain villages, particularly in Kerasohoria which have this problem to a large extent, these arrangements will create relief and satisfaction, which in these difficult times are absolutely useful for social cohesion. In addition, support for forestry services is absolutely essential, both for the proper implementation of the proposed regulations and for their proper functioning and their ability to draw up management studies for a decade. Furthermore, the greatest potential of the present forest conservation regulations lies in a positive direction, although the interests are great and a wider debate and decisions are needed to be able to say that it is possible to protect our forest wealth from uncontrolled smuggling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr. Sifakis. The speaker of SYRIZA Mr Nikolaos Papadopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to agree with Mr Arachovitis, who has made a real analysis. I believe you will also hear comrade Brandza Panayota about farms. I will confine myself to it, but I cannot comment on Mr Screka's speech yesterday, who said specifically that what is happening today is not the responsibility of the administration. Use that phrase. It's not the people who ruled, it's the administration, it's the state mechanism, it's the users' fault, it's all them. However, it was never the fault of those who ruled and created all these issues. I think it's laughing when you can't haunt an opposition tactic. And then Mr. Javarras comes to correct Mr. Skreka's speech and put a political time. And Mr Javarras came to say this to the Minister: 'Don't move our fingers, because we did the 1975 Constitution, which you are supporting today.' He went to Kostas Karamanlis, the great man forty years ago. So what do we want to do now? Don't you have anything to say? And you're talking again about VAT on agricultural products. Aren't you tired of talking about VAT? Aren't you tired of talking about insurance and taxation? What we did in VAT is that from 23% we made him 24%. You who made 23% of him from 18%? 13% that you made him 23%? At least we've got the drugs at the low rate at 6%. So much can you not make a political controversy on issues that life is giving rise to today? However, you have no proposals. Nor is your analysis such as to justify your refusal today to the forest maps, as we make them. Because it is indeed a basic instrument for developing forest maps. The same logic I saw in PASOK. Nothing's changed. As if they didn't get through here either. They took us to some laws that are inactive. And from behind comes the river. He told us about the negotiation. He started over there confusing OPEKEPE with connected, costing, etc. And, finally, what did the river say today? Follow what New Democracy and PASOK said. In other words, he is a collar of political life, following the two major parties. I think that's where they can see. I do not want to believe that they do not want forest maps and other issues, which may also have political purposes to commit some people to the production process. In my opinion, we raised two major issues. We put the law on the meadows we had taken a long time ago and a technical solution was given for the meadows. Now with the forest maps, we will, in fact, see how many grassland we have, forest land and all, which will also reveal the development path that this whole story will have for livestock. Because, indeed, we will see how many meadows we have, how many forests we have and they will plan up there on the rural economy. It is very important and we will see that by 2019, all of this will be settled, we will also have a real imprint of the rural areas corresponding to the specific money that farmers will receive and we will finally get out of the technical solutions that we have today. Secondly, the forest needs to be seen as a factor of development. In many countries forest products, which help the national economy, are more than 10% of GDP. Here, what we have today exploited from the forest is close to 1%. So we can very well see this forest development and link it back to forest cooperatives, where we can make another bill on how these cooperatives develop. So here we see a complete package for the forest and what happens. A professor, Evangelos Manolis, came to the Committee on the Environment yesterday, who made a specific proposal, which says 'how can the forest use it for energy, biomass'. So we have all the guarantees, all the solutions and all the facts on our side, so if we really capture the forest and know where it is, we will be able to use it in the right direction. I think the forest has too much to give us, as long as we notice. One last word, in the sense that the environment needs to be taken care of. Development without respect for the environment cannot be achieved. So we're going to be compatible with the environment and we're going to make a great deal of use of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u8	Madam President, I would like to speak on personal grounds for one minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u9	What's personal, Mr. Screka?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u10	I ask for the floor on staff, because it was mentioned yesterday in my speech, which was distorted, Madam President. Just for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u11	We're listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u12	My dear colleague, Mr Papadopoulos, who is elected to Larissa, mentioned what I said, unfortunately twisting them. I said precisely yesterday, Mr Papadopoulos, ladies and gentlemen, that - in particular, I read from the Minutes - we are unfortunately in the unpleasant situation in 2017, our country will not have an integrated register, unfortunately not knowing what forests it has and where it has them. Of course, there are serious responsibilities of the previous Greek administrations, the state, the officiality of the Ministries and the political system in general...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u13	Who's to blame? Tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u14	Mr. Papadopoulos, let him speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u15	I said, Mr Colleague, 'in particular with responsibility for the administrations', i.e. the governments elected. What courage, Madam President, does the Greek Parliament want to go up to the Step of the Parliament and lie before all the Members who participate in the Chamber today?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u16	Madam President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u17	We will not keep doing this today and ask for the floor on staff. Everything's private.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u18	This is a Member of Parliament who is going to send a rejoicing to his fellow citizens in Larissa, the farmers, about EUR 250 per acre. But they don't know what they're gonna pick up. Once they understand it, then he'll tell us how good this bill is.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u19	Your time's up, Mr. Screka.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u20	Madam President, please, the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u21	No, Mr. Papadopoulos. We used to say it's all political, now we're gonna say it's all personal? It can't be done. We will not overthrow the flow of the debate. It doesn't make any sense. Then he'll answer you. We cannot circumvent the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u22	Madam President, please give me the floor, because he says I'm lying.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u23	I can't give the floor, because then you'll ask me again. We're not doing this job.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u24	I want to say a word.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u25	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u26	I said what Mr. Screkas read. He didn't even ask for one apology. I said: 'This administration'. 'Management', that is exactly what Mr Screkas read. If I'm a liar, I'd be happy... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u27	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u28	Mr. Screka, we're not doing this job.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u29	Madam President, I apologise, but Mr Papadopoulos should ask for a great apologies. What he said yesterday was unfortunately incomplete and false, as demonstrated by the Minutes, which I read.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u30	Mr. Sevastakis has the floor for seven minutes. Please save time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u31	Thank you very much, Madam President. The bill we are discussing is a bill that collects a variety of contradictions, cultural, productive, useful and indirect, and political contradictions. Changed use, changed direction, changed ownership and the notion of productive utilities and, slowly, these contradictions were inherited in today. These, then, are trying to manage this bill and other bills, which are before and afterward, and which concern forestry policy, are touching the development dimension of forestry policy. The forest is not a background, it is related to use. The forest is related to the hierarchies, social and cultural, which have been chosen by the new Greek reality and the direction of its social development is related to the way both the forest and the city are hierarchy. So this complex dilemma system is trying to balance it. The information I have from many technicians, people of production, is that they are in the right direction. I am sure that such a complicated approach can evolve, be closed down, improve in the future, and with the interventions and suggestions of the political forces. However, we all have to agree on something, that forest policy has never existed, that the concept of forestry was never determined socially. The forest either changed uses, due to the abandonment of fields, forests and virtually a part of the productive area was assimilated from the forest territory and on the other hand there was very great violence towards the concept of forest land. There was a lot of bourgeois violence, especially when we had great building pressure. All this makes a new protocol. So I think that the Ministry's choice of dealing with this protocol, allowing us to use, allowing and enforcing models, I think it is a fairly bold political choice, which will give us the result and the balance that we absolutely need. I would also like to stress that life does not go without a regulatory system. Life does not go any further in improvising, self-regulation, and therefore, the forest is what we allow it to be. It shouldn't be like this. The forest has the great power to indicate the urban area, and also the forest has the great power to allow its internal use to assist, strengthen or frame productive, rural activity. In these terms, therefore, ambiguity or ambiguity, I think the bill is developing. I am sure that both colleagues and political forces - who? - those who have allowed the forest to burn, those who considered the forest as a tool of boulia, those who changed the productive map in Greece, especially since the 1950s, will be able, perhaps with an internal guilt, to introduce improvements and enrichment solutions and will thus be able to organize their political return to reality and perhaps also to answer the great historical question they have raised since the 1950s. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u32	Madam President, as a parliamentary representative I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u33	Not now, Mr. Theocharopoulos. Later, why do we have to move on?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u34	I would like to ask the Government a question about the amendments which are still being tabled, even now, to know what is going on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u35	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u36	Mr Famelos is not here at the moment, he may have to be notified, but he has told the committee that "on the side of the government there is no other proposal for an amendment and there will be no other proposal. We have said so at the Conference of Presidents and I can mention it here.' This statement, from the Minutes of Parliament, was made on 7 April at the third meeting of the committee by the Minister responsible for the current bill. Two amendments have been tabled last night, one for the use of hay and the other for PPC. A third amendment is now tabled on VAT and traffic charges. I would like to stress, Madam President, this is an unacceptable process. I would like to ask whether he intends to table another amendment. That it should not be accepted within the plenary session, such as Mr Famelos himself, who has committed himself to the committee. We cannot proceed with this process. At least, respect the way we operate here in the Greek Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u37	All right, Mr. Theocharopoulos. Mr. Georgios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Madam President. I am pleased that the Minister responsible will be here, who really is interested in seeing an issue that has arisen. It has been subjected to diligence, I think, on this issue and I hope that it will also give a solution. The problem that has been created, ladies and gentlemen, has to do with the maps that have already been ratified. In 2013, a number of maps were validated throughout the country, representing 1% of the total area of the area concerned. So two things happened to them. Of these, one concerns the Kilkis Prefecture, the Polykastro region, which I think the House should restore. We have two issues that have arisen at the time. The first is the lack of information, which has been and has been normal, because it was a pilot effort at the time to start this whole process. It has not received the outcome of this debate, so that the media can deal with it, the House has repeatedly dealt with it, publicity and information for all interested parties. And so, when these maps were posted, especially in the Polykastro area, which was the country's first real estate office, and that is why they started from Polykastro - we had only one objection. For an area of sixty-three thousand acres, of which some thirteen thousand were areas characterised as forests, only one objection was raised. So one issue which arises, and I think we should all see it, is in relation to the right to equal treatment for all citizens and all the beneficiaries of the law. It is now in the same way that citizens are being informed. In other words, it is with one post at Forest and another in the local municipality. But at this time, the publicity created is such that it will surely give rise to the interest of all the owners and we hope that everyone who has the right will object. But this did not happen, unfortunately, in the previous period. However, there is also one issue, more importantly than that which it imposes, Minister, in my opinion, to see how we treat these owners equally. This issue is now that, based on the new features given by the Presidential Decree of 2016, but also on the specific legislative initiative, today, the grassland areas, which under the former regime were subject to those protected by forest legislation, have now been excluded. In other words, 1% of the maps have already been validated, and there have also been grasslands, such as forestry legislation at that time, and today they are excluded. So, in these maps that were posted at the time and ratified, we have tied up such areas with this designation, that is, grazing that they are subject to the protection of the law. Today, however, this will not happen. I think, therefore, that with this particular given given fact, which we cannot easily overcome and which gives a dimension of injustice to the citizens who at the first time, in this pilot process, had the misfortune to be their areas within those which were thus designated, we should give them an opportunity to submit their objections on the basis of the new provisions of the law. One of them, the most important thing I have said, is the so-called grazing land, but there is another one. It is in areas with an altitude of less than 100 meters, when the slope of the ground is below 12%. These are two very important new exemptions from the protection provided for in the current forestry legislation and which were not previously foreseen. And we will have the contradictory fact that someone who has an area, which has been characterised by old legislation, has to be characterised as forest and five hundred meters next door, another area which, with the current forecasts, is not characterised as forest land. I therefore think that the legislative body, which has to look at them - in fact, when implementing a legislative initiative - whatever failures exist or any corrections must be made, which must be made, precisely because the law itself came and changed the conditions. We should see them, and I think we should give a second chance to all those in the country who are owners of 1% of these lands, so that they can reintroduce their objections, on the basis of the new features now laid down in forestry legislation. Minister, there will be nothing to do with 99% of the maps to be validated, and 1% of the areas and areas already ratified, so that on the basis of the new characteristics, the specific features, which are now given by forestry legislation, which are different from those in force in 2013, can also be given an opportunity for these beneficiaries to submit their objections and be judged by the competent body. It is a constitutional obligation to respect this right of our fellow citizens. I think that legal side effects from such an act are confronted and, of course, there will also be a sense of justice vis-à-vis all our fellow citizens, who, I repeat, have had the misfortune of the areas they hold to be included in that first pilot project. It was unfortunate on one side of the issue, but on the other hand, they had the misfortune of seeing a law change, as it is now changing, with more favourable regulations, as you say, for owners and owners, and they do not have the right to ask to be included in these more favourable regulations. I think that Parliament, as a sovereign House, on your own initiative, could give this opportunity to all those who have areas in the existing maps. And I repeat to my fellow Members that they are in six - seven counties, and that is only 1% of the total area. Minister, we hope in your response, because it really is an issue, which was initiated by the incomplete update of that period, but which you must deal with in an objective and substantial way, as the truth is that now, especially with the grassland areas that I mentioned, change the characteristics and give some solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, too. I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs Maya Gojkovic, is following the proceedings of the Greek Parliament. We welcome it to the Greek Parliament. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] It is located in our country at the invitation of the President of the Parliament and in return for a corresponding invitation made by her and found our President in Serbia at the end of 2016. He's been here since yesterday. A memorandum of cooperation has already been signed between the two Parliaments, where appropriate a committee of cooperation between them, on various issues which concern us. As you know, we have historical and close relations with Serbia. We have once again declared our support for Serbia's intention and desire for an accession process in the European Union, so that we can help as much as we can. Already on various issues, the Prime Minister has also visited the Republic of Serbia during the previous period, but we have various other initiatives that we have taken as neighbouring countries on issues of common interest such as refugee, terrorism and others. So we have the honour to be with us and to attend our meeting right now. Minister Stathakis asked for the floor. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u40	Madam President, I would like to clarify something about the amendments, on the subject raised by Mr Theoharopoulos. I would like you to be aware of the ministerial amendments, which are of a procedural nature, by Mr Tsakalotou, in particular, and which have an urgent nature, since they relate to extensions. As far as all the other amendments, the Members of Parliament, while expressly respecting Mr Famelos, are concerned, we will not accept any amendments and a very important amendment, in consultation with the Minister for Rural Development, will be in the next bill of the Ministry for Rural Development on fisheries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u41	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u42	Mr. Femelle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u43	I am sorry for the intervention, but because it is important for Mr Georgios' speech to clarify - I think we can in the parliamentary procedure - some of the issues that have already been discussed on the forest maps, because, as I said yesterday in the plenary session, there are some of the earlier posts and some of them which have not been ratified, because the opposition committees did not work. For those who have already been ratified, we have to say this to the citizens who are interested, and we discussed it on 22 March here. The tools we are going to legislate today on the granting or use of ownership for agricultural operation, whether before 1975 or after 1975, will be available - and are available - for the citizens of these regions too. So they'll retrospectively amend the map. It's a legitimate process, it's predictable. So the new tools are at the disposal of the citizens. As regards the field of vegetarian land, as already by law of 2014 and by the Presidential Decree of 2016, where the character is specified, the current proposed law allows for the redefinition of the improvements to the legislation’s improved characteristics, the acts made at the request of the interested party may proceed to a change in the restrictive nature of forestry legislation and thus amend the validated forestry map. Thus, for these owners, users, they are also given the opportunity to make use of the favourable regulation and are provided for in the current bill. We have a reservation on the rest of the sections, not extinguishes, but grazing, and not grazing, of what has already been created, the ratification of the section, which has already been ratified, that is to say, what has no objection to openness and is not grazing or extruded, because that also wants a legal basis, if you want to do so, for further documentation. We will consider it, because the mayor sent a request for the regions yesterday - I am referring to the Kilkis Prefecture, which we have already discussed together - but I think that for three cases they are satisfied, if you like, because they are taking advantage of the positive features. I would also like to say a question that Mr Screkas raised yesterday, which is important, and it is important to have it clarified, about the proposal and documentation of the Directorate-General for Forestry as well. It appears that, for the evacuations before 1975, the agricultural study was not required, and this can also be validated by a general management circular, so that there would be no such obligation, because it was not necessary anyway and therefore no burden would be introduced for the areas before 1975 either public or private. I therefore think that this clarification is also being made, and I have to say it about the Minutes, so that it is guaranteed in the public debate. Finally, we should welcome and welcome the President of Parliament in Serbia and wish her a good stay and good cooperation in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u44	So farewell to Mrs Maya Gojkovic. [[Applause]] [[This is where the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs Maya Gojkovic, leaves the Chamber.]] Mr. Vlao, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we are once again discussing a very important issue, such as forest maps, a painful story, an issue that has started since the beginning and, in my opinion, this mistake has then been corrected by another mistake and that is what is going on today. And it goes on today, because we all see that, despite the ambitious efforts, there is always a little or a greater deadlock. Why is this impasse created? Because we didn't want to clear up the landscape and make real forest maps. How, ladies and gentlemen, will forest maps be created when we have not clarified what aerial photographs will become of these forest maps? And now I will comment on the previous comment by Mr Papadopoulos and Mr Skreka on responsibility. How will forest maps be drawn up when the 2005 Constitutional Review, which most realistically tried to amend Articles 24 and 117, has been consecrated under the responsibility of the then officer - and not just - of counter-population? I mean, then, that initiatives that identified the real problems were taken at times, but there was not that elementary understanding for everyone to speak at the same time, so you can see now that the uploads of the forest maps began to shout, complain, complain, all of Greece, the CEDE, the mayors, the district managers, all of them. Why? Because we say things that have nothing to do with reality. In other words, we have posted as forest areas the areas that are already structured and have long been changed. What does that mean? It means that an effort that is under way, not wanting to see reality, has led things to the dead end. That is how this bill comes today and is trying to clarify the details of a previous bill and you have no question that in future there will also be a next bill, which will provide clarification of what we have not clarified today. Since the beginning of the forest maps, I have been rushing to send a letter to the Ministry's political leadership, asking for a considerable time for objections, because as all the regional colleagues will know, many people do not live in their property. So they are not informed in time about the suspension of the forest maps and they usually lose the time within which they should object. Because if there are no actual objections, if the actual objections are not discussed, we will not have real forest maps. We'll build one more in the sand. So, does some things finally have to be seen from the outset, a little more radically, a little more radically, so that we can provide solutions? We're talking about forested fields. We all know what is happening, especially in the region, but we all forget this reality. We're talking about evacuations. We know there are legal and illegal expulsions. But that is where we leave it unresolved. We know that there are legal concessions many decades ago, which we want to ignore. So all these problems are left under the carpet, citizens are in a hostage, they are in a stalemate, and now that they have to declare their property, they are in front of the humiliary phenomenon, the same regions are declared by individuals and by the public, and the private must prove what is self-proof for the local society, that is, that this property is the private and not the public. There has been an effort with the settlements so that forest maps can proceed, and I believe that it has indeed been in the right direction, since the philosophy of the legislator - and here I want, Minister, to be understood - was to exclude everything that is structured, and which has objections and needs clarification from the rest of the forest maps that must be moved quickly. So the legislator is not talking about houses. He's talking about buildings, he's talking about buildings. What has been structured, what exists with the rules of the law and, of course, the densities of the law, must be excluded, treated separately as a reality and all the rest that is, of course, forest progress. We must also have the courage at this point to clarify that what is, indeed, structured must be retained. I should also like to say here, Mr President-in-Office, that it does not mean the continuation of fines for construction and preservation in areas which are part of these residential densities. Any fines should be suspended until the procedure for these areas is finalised. There are sums - mythically, I would say - which are accompanied by many owners. And if we try to make these amounts certain at some point, there will be, if you like, a blockage in society and the people who are accompanied by these fines. I would therefore talk about simplifying procedures, not about resolving the knots, but about cutting the no-solution no-solid no-one else, and we all understand that they are not solved. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. If, Ministers, the operation of a canteen on a beach in the summer continues to need the paper of archaeology and forests, we are essentially confirming the deadlock in which we are and the choice of the slow death of the elementary entrepreneurship and the elementary production process. You'll allow me to be in another direction. With the environmental sensitivity that everyone has to have and how much in the region - so you think this is a given and also a profession - and with realism if these two are combined, I believe that we can really give solutions to the existing problems of our fellow citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u46	Mr Ilias Panagiotaros, Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, has the floor now. Mr. Panayotus, do you want the twelve minutes or will you keep them for later?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u47	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u48	Okay, I'll give you 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Madam President. Amid memorial and tax storms of Ottoman inspiring, you are bringing about a bill which, as you say, corrects the bad texts, the anarchy of over two hundred years, a bill which, in fact, does not mitigate in any way, but on the contrary enhances customer relations between the citizen and the state, through the possibilities offered to settle all the errors, irregularities and errors. All but all of them in Greece are protesting - the municipalities, the institutions, the Church, the individuals, everyone - for the same or different reasons, depending on the local peculiarities that each region has. We would like to make a quick comment on the collecting of this bill. Everything is solved with a paradox. You pay, you settle. You pay, you fix. You pay, you legalize. When, for more than seven years, the Greek people have been afflicted in all areas and have to pay for everything, for whatever they do, for whatever they do, for whatever they are to blame or not, you are bringing him an extra rascal, which should also be done quickly, in order to settle the outstandingities that you will determine with this bill. Of course, neither you nor your predecessors have seen the same sensitivity that you have been trying to show for a long time the arbitraryness of the greatest arbitraryness of the earth, of mall in Maroussi. The previous governments, but also you, are constantly trying to pass through the back door any amendment or something else that completely brings them 'oil' and not to pay anything on the substance of the most serious, the largest urban, and not just a crime that has been committed in our homeland. At the same time, you are asking the ordinary Greek citizens, the owners of small parcels, the poor and simple people in the countryside to take corrective action, to pay paradoxically, to hire engineers, to go to services, to do one, to prove self-evident, what has been the case for decades now in their territories. We see that the 1945 aerial photographs play an important role in drawing up forest maps. We're in love, too. Why the 1945 aerial photographs and not the 1970 aerial photographs? And why not since there are no aerial photographs before 1945, not go to the Ottoman archives in Constantinople, where are there all the evidence, to see which areas were forests and which were not during the Ottoman occupation? Because there's everything there. But as you can see, if anyone wants to go to prove that before 1945 and the aerial photographs, these areas that may be classified as forests and for which they will have to pay to prove the self-evident, they have to resort, go to the occupied Istanbul, go to find a lawyer there, go to the archives to find the documents, translate them, bring them back to him a small fortune to prove the self-proof. And it is true - we say this again - why are the peculiarities of each region not taken into account? There are places in Greece, like Mani - and the other day Maniates had come here and complained about forest maps, about how you want to draw them up - where there was a reason. And when the Maniotians gave their word, they always kept it. And there was no written evidence to prove things. And in other areas the same can happen, less or more. You once again used the doctrine of shock. They had come out, before this bill came, information that they saw the light of publicity about incredible stories about forest maps, about huge sums to be paid and that all Greece is a forest and others. And after this shock came for all Greek citizens, with this bill soften their pains a little bit, you make it more dignified, so the other one tells you "in relation to what they said at the beginning and what they heard about the huge sums, even better." And we are getting to the amendments. Here we would like to make a point once again on the unacceptable tabling of many amendments - and it has come another moment ago, which we have not been able to study as a whole - in an irrelevant bill. And some of them are by themselves the whole bills on the substance of dozens of pages. This demonstrates once again how you perceive parliamentaryism and the practice of parliamentary procedures. I should like to make a point about the amendments. With regard to the amendment number 1005 and specific 121 ‘Extension until 30-6-2017 of the deadline for submitting the 2016 asset statements’, once again there is an extension, because obviously the state mechanism, the audit services, no one was ready to cope with what was requested last year. Here the Golden Dawn will say 'the present', because, on the one hand, we believe that you have done everything wrong, but on the other hand, it is really a lot and it is difficult for anyone to collect. You see who burns with the batter blows the yogurt. And after the scandalous billions of euros where ministers had huge accounts and assets in the past and did not need to justify anything, now the last civil servant is also called upon to justify possibly the EUR 1 on a bank account, which may have been opened and when he was a child at school. In Amendment No 1006/122 on the extension of financial orders for the current financial year by one month after their expiry, we are against, because all these are accounting tricks to achieve Memorandum obligations. There can be no question of public investment in a country that has definitively terminated the cheques of loan sharks. With regard to Amendment No 1007/123, which essentially concerns the AEK field and the resolution of any obstacles to its development, the Golden Dawn is in favour of this amendment. Besides, in our election program and in our self-government program it is clear that Golden Dawn is in favour of building and rebuilding all the lands of great and historic groups in Athens, Attica and throughout Greece. That should have happened yesterday, but we see that, on the one hand, you had to vote for 'yes', then you put a mayor to you - and continue to bring - a number of obstacles. It may also disturb you the name of the field, which will be called "Saint Wisdom" and will be a specific style. Maybe all this was bothering you. But in the end, whatever you do, this field will also become under the name in question. I wish we had the normal Holy Wisdom in operation at some point! Amendment No 1015/131 is, in itself, a major amendment. It is a separate bill, which should come, to discuss thoroughly. Let us see some issues relating to this amendment. This amendment states: ‘The provisions of Law No.4389/2016, of fresh law, are amended, ‘and the issues relating to the complete ownership separation of ‘ADMTO S.A.’ by ‘PCPC S.A.’’, are rescheduled. What does the amendment say? First you get back what you voted on a few months ago. Obviously, it's a memorial check for the fourth memorial that comes in, an extortion that works, because you're finally very sensitive and you can't resist any blackmailing of the lenders. On the substance of everything you have said in the past, the heavy words, the strikes, everything you have done, you are humiliating them yourself and at the moment you accept what is one of the greatest crimes against the Greek state. Because PPC and its infrastructure were built, built, built through labors and sacrifices of decades of the Greek people, they cost hundreds of billions of euros with today's prices, and you are the only one that you do, is to sell them through the "salariation", - part - at very low prices at the expense of the Greek people. In the end, what is left of PPC will be left for 'bad' customers, because 'good' customers are obliged, you see, to give them, and this is not a free economy. That's probably something completely different. It is probably about Soviet-type practices, one- and only-competitor practices, which has no one else, so that he may be able to give a better price. As far as Amendment 1016/132 is concerned, we are clearly opposed. She too is a bill of tens of pages by herself. Our speaker will be placed in his second speech later to explain in detail why we are opposed to this amendment. For the last amendment that came a moment ago, the special speaker of the Golden Dawn will speak, because we would also like to study it. To conclude, I would like to say that, unfortunately, with all the shocking cues of the last two and a half years on your part, we can only be cautious and negative in any of your introductory words - your intentions and other bills that you intend to bring. In the context of a generalised economic policy - and not only - a crisis, an attack taken by the Greek people, you are going to add to it additional financial burdens. And you think that with all these regulations that you're supposed to make it easier for him - and you say that it will all be done in instalments or in the day after the other bill on the extrajudicial compromise of businesses, where a businessman who has no business at all to pay in a hundred and twenty instalments his various debts - he will be able to cope with it. Here you want to make forest maps and all these years you can't make a Land register. The Greek citizens have spent a lot of money and paid for how many times the Land register and now you come with this forest map bill. Did all of this bill have anything to do with forest maps, but are you in search of new surfaces for the cultivation of hay, with which you so much and very much wish to feed Greek citizens once again? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u50	I shall now give the floor to the Minister, Mr Papanatsiou, to speak about the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Madam President. I will talk about the amendment with a general number of 1017 and a specialist of 133. It concerns provisions on income tax, VAT and traffic charges. Law 4172/2013 provided for the expiry of the deadline for the submission of tax returns on 30 April of each year. With the amendment, the declaration is submitted by 30 June of the next tax year. The preceding provision shall apply to income acquired and to expenditure incurred in tax years beginning on 1 January 2016.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u52	Why is he doing this?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u53	The tax statements expire on 30 April. Instead of always having ministerial decisions and giving extensions - the system was opened a moment ago - we are ending on 30 June. Since, for the submission of data, both by employers and by the State by the HR for pensions or other incomes, the time limit is 31 March, the start of tax declarations cannot be made before the beginning of April each year, with the result that one month is not sufficient for tax declarations. In this sense, we give until 30 June at the end of the day. We already have a prior provision for legal persons, so until 15 July, the natural persons who are members of legal persons may submit their declarations and have the final date on 30 June. The tax shall be paid in no more than six equal monthly instalments, the first of which shall be paid on the last working day of the following month and with the final date for the submission of the declaration for the remaining five on the last working day of the next five months, i.e. until the end of the year. For legal persons and legal entities which have been wound up or have been wound up, the payment of the tax shall be made on a one-off basis and not later than the following working day following the submission of the declaration. In the second part relating to VAT, we have start-up or changes to the compulsory inclusion into the standard VAT system. It is for farmers under the special scheme who are obliged to join the normal scheme from 1-1-2017. In accordance with paragraphs 5 and 6 of this Article, they shall be submitted by 12-5-2017. Exceptionally those who joined the normal scheme from 1-1-2017, but who fulfil the conditions of the last subparagraph of paragraph 1 of this Article, may make a declaration of switching to the special status of farmers until 12 May 2017. Late submission fines that may have been imposed from 1-1-2017 for entry into the normal scheme until 12-5-2017 shall be deleted or returned on a case-by-case basis. Specifically for the 2017 tax year, in determining the limit of EUR 5,000 from subsidies received by farmers in the previous tax year, the amounts of subsidies related to only the year 2016 shall be taken. This is a request from all farmers. Because, in 2016, too many subsidies were paid for previous years, for this year alone - we can clarify it - they can make entry to books from the normal scheme for those with more than 5,000 for subsidies for the year 2016. From 2017 onwards, the decision that existed before, that is, what was paid in the year, no matter what year it is, will have the obligation to join the books. The latter is related to the lifting of the immobility of a vehicle, a car or a private motorcycle. It's about traffic charges. One month’s immovement may be possible, two twelfths shall be paid for in the vehicle’s respective annual traffic charges. Three months’ immovement shall be paid up to 4/12 of the amount corresponding to the annual traffic charges in the vehicle. And for the lifting of immobilisation for the remainder of the year and until the end of the year, the twelfths shall be paid for the amount of the annual traffic charges corresponding to the vehicle remaining until 31-12-2017, plus two twelfths of the annual traffic charges. We give the opportunity to some who want to take the signs for a certain period, to be able to do so. It's exactly the same thing we've brought last year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u54	We're on the list. Mr Bukkokouros has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the way your Government treats the issue of forest maps and forest areas in general is totally fragmentary. That, if you want, also proves the lack of planning. You approached the issue with a bill in 2016. You have brought numerous amendments to irrelevant bills in the previous period. You are also bringing the bill under discussion, in order to deal with a matter for which its history is well known, but also for which data. This is evidence of an absolute lack of planning. You will allow me, Minister, to focus on two serious issues. On the issue of the end of the change of use and on the issue of the acquisition of land within the context of land owners, land owners, forest or other form, who removed land before 1975, i.e. before the explicit constitutional provision, for which your bill also speaks. First of all, Mr Minister, you seem to be completely unaware of the transformation of the primary sector after war, when there was the need for productive land in order to tackle the food problems of the country, when the primary sector left behind the livestock sector and mainly took agricultural character. All these people are tens of thousands in the country. That is why a million acres have emerged in dispute at this time, with only thirty-four prefectures having posted maps. In other words, when the whole territory is completed, the disputed earths will reach one eight hundred. That's my assessment. You're looking at it and you're ignoring it. And you come and ask each farmer today, Minister, for a change in the use of EUR 60 to EUR 80 for changing the use, because social and economic conditions have been imposed after World War II! If you were to ask the Minister of Agriculture, who just left the room, Mr Minister, would tell you that 80 euros for a cereal grower are the two annual incomes. The farmer now only wins the subsidy, Minister, which is 32 euros per acre, and you ask him for a 75 euro takeover fee, 80 euros, hiding behind the fact that the provisions of previous bills provided an even higher price, disregarding the situation he has created, firstly, the seven-year crisis, secondly, your tax and insurance bill and, thirdly, the reduction of production costs. How, then, by a farmer, who, on the mandate of the administration, has disqualified his land eighty years ago, with decisions of the emergency services and other decisions of the administration, has been taxed for eighty years, has been subsidised in the last forty years, are you coming and asking today - and I am talking about cases before 1975-80 euros? Two annual incomes are those, Minister, for a cereal grower. You refer him to apply to the Forest Authorities in order to go to a change of use, paying the fee for a change of use. This is the crucial point, Minister, to which I would like to draw your attention. There is a widespread fear among farmers that with the request for a change of use there will also arise a great deal of ownership, because the forest authorities to which you refer - I am not, of course, talking about the opposition committees - on the basis of the previous legal framework in a number of laws, will challenge the legitimate titles of ownership of farmers, they will demand justice for recognised titles and then the change of use will become an obligation to buy their land. This concerns tens of thousands of farmers and a million acres, Minister. Do you know what the sum is, Minister, the acquisition and the change of end? It's 250 euros a acre. A small-scale farmer with two hundred acres of grains will be asked to pay this amount in even a hundred instalments if he goes to the sum, i.e. if he goes to the end of a change of use and to the buy-out. Because I want to make a comment here, Minister. You said clearly when drafting the bill, that anyone who does not want to have titles, should only pay the end to have the use. You are presenting yourself here to ignore a social reality. The farmer is tied to his land. And now you're telling him to delegate its ownership to the state after eighty years, and to keep its holding?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u56	With the public land? With the land of the public?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u57	Minister, that's exactly what he says. Unfortunately, however, this will be done if there is no explicit provision on how applications are submitted for the change of use, which does not lead to the need for redemption. If you have missed this critical parameter, you can take care of it before the bill is passed, change it. If it has not escaped you and it is your own appreciation, then I am very afraid that an unbearable charm for the rural world is being concealed. You have the opportunity to make this absolutely clear, Minister, this issue. Otherwise the rural world will rightly consider you to be the instigator of its invasion. Think under the current economic conditions to be called after seven to eight months the farmer has paid for the land he has purchased and for which he has contracts, through a bill that is supposed to regulate things after many decades, to pay 250 euros for the buy-out and the end of use. That will be absolutely catastrophic. Already too many farmers are ready to leave their land after insurance, taxation and the evacuation of production costs. Such a possibility will lead them off their farms with disastrous consequences for themselves and for the productive tissue of the country. Minister, we expect your clarifications on this matter, because as I have said before you, the fear of losing a lot of sweat among farmers is now widespread. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u58	Mrs Eleni Aylonitos, Member of the SYRIZA, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u59	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in today's bill: "Amendments to the provisions of forestry legislation and other provisions" a ministerial amendment has been tabled to add to the subject: "Amendment to Article 15 of Law No 4067/2012", which essentially concerns the construction of the AEK's territory in New Philadelphia. I would like to dwell on this amendment, because I think it is of particular importance to the sport sector and to the city of New Philadelphia. Legislatively, the amendment partially reintroduces to the General Building Regulation, because this is Law 4067/2012, a provision that existed in the previous amendment of the Law 2831/2000 GOK, but which had, however, been removed in 2012. In particular, as regards the starting point for building heights in the elevation study of the road, there was an old prediction that if for any reason it could not be issued by the municipality, the competence of its publication would be passed on to the prefecture. As this was not compatible with the new structure of local government, where we now have a periphery, it was abolished, leaving the rare cases of projects in law, where the construction of the main project is accompanied by a sinking of the road, as is the case with the territory of the AEK in New Philadelphia. We were thus in a situation where none of the parties concerned could do anything without being in danger of being held illegal. AEK could not proceed without the signature of the municipality, the municipality could not sign, the prefecture and the district could not sign instead of the municipality, and the relevant Minister was legally irresponsible. So today's amendment comes to solve this problem, covering a legal gap. It does not restore the older regime in general, but recognises a special case, in the case of sports facilities of more than fifteen thousand places for the operation of which openings or road configurations and other accompanying projects are required. In these cases, only all the relevant attestations will be issued by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, which has physical and technical competence. I consider this narrow solution to be a good one rather than a general possibility for the Ministry to sign for the municipalities, and I consider it acceptable if, under the current legal regime, there is no legal certainty for either side. In other words, the technical capacity to build this project exceeded the legislation, so we are adapting the legislation. In the meantime, however, the case of the AEK's court has created in New Philadelphia a situation not only unpleasant but also explosive. The initial mistake of demolition of the old land of AEK and the aftermath of attempts to build a new land has divided the city, not because it is so difficult to solve the countryside, but because various fascist gangs believe that they have now found the opportunity, on the pretext of the AEK, to terrorise an entire democratic city. I am not, of course, talking about the thousands of offenders who, on various occasions, have protested peacefully on the field. I am talking about gangs of a few dozen people who I would like to say to you that I have seen it in person. Nor did it help the climate, however, that some landlords want no traffic congestion in their neighborhood every other Sunday, they thought they would find a way to get the New Philadelphia out of New Philadelphia. Here I have only to repeat what thousands of peaceful offenders declared in their protests: "The stadium found it here, it didn't find you". So they must all find in New Philadelphia the middle street that serves all the Philadelphias. And I cannot remind everyone that Philadelphia, and even the most famous Philadelphia, is the AEK, because all of us have identified the city of New Philadelphia with the AEK. Today, the state finally solves the legal bucket with the amendment. But that's not good enough. The Minister responsible must also see some other accompanies the field that Nea Philadelphia needs. Firstly, it is necessary to transfer the municipal wastewater from the vicinity of the stadium. Put on the escort work. Secondly, we need a municipal parking lot on an existing municipal land. Put on the escort work. Thirdly, the New Philadelphia Alsso needs better fire protection. Put on the escort work. Fourthly, it takes the metro line 4 to reach New Philadelphia. Put it at least in the long-term design of the project now being auctioned. Fifth, the New Philadelphia altar needs to be subject to the Municipality of Nea Philadelphia, without the possibility of further concessions for sporting purposes, i.e. to be exempted from Article 43 of Law 4277/2014 and the Municipality of Nea Philadelphia - Nea Halkidona. Ladies and gentlemen, there are solutions, provided that all of them take a step back, take a deep breath and then move forward calmly. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I am therefore voting for this salutary amendment - I shall end, Madam President - and I look forward to being with the fans of the AEK and sharing their joy with them in its first game in the court, in its new home, at the 'Agia Sophia' stage in the city that was born. Finally, I am voting in favour of today's draft law which includes all those amendments to forestry legislation, which are essential for the continuity of the work of drawing up forest maps, thereby ensuring not only the citizens who want to make use of certain land, but above all by protecting the public interest and forest wealth in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u60	Mrs Karamanlis, Member of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Madam President. The government is bringing this bill to a vote in a very serious climate that has been formulated with the new measures it is going to adopt, measures which have emerged after its many months of relapsing in the negotiation procedures and which bring the country back to the wall again, bring new overtaxation and new pension cuts, without being accompanied by any new funding, measures that go beyond its parliamentary term and are binding on our country. In this atmosphere, then, you are bringing in a draft law that is supposed to be trying to correct some bad texts of forestry legislation and you are saying that you are dealing with years of problems for growers and farmers. Except that your intentions are not so good and the settlement of these problems is the cloak under which new carpets are finally hidden, new financial burdens which touch thousands of farmers. Because this objective, the tax spy, seems to serve these new regulations rather than solve the problem with the former forest land. That is why the only criterion for the acquisition of land used for agricultural crops is the payment of character. The majority of farmers will therefore be asked to pay the purchase price, but also the financial compensation for the environmental balance, namely the change of use. And we are talking on many occasions about land that has been evacuated before 1975 and about which the current owners have paid legacy or transfer taxes and taxes and HISPIA. And you come and add them an extra weight. It turns out that you have targeted the Greek farmers, whom you have already kneeled with the VAT increases and the increased contributions of the OGA. And all this while we are talking about the need to restructure the country's productive model and strengthen the primary sector. But you will allow me to focus on an amendment tabled in the draft law concerning the approval of an altitude study for the construction of sports facilities of more than fifteen thousand places. The amendment tabled by the City of Nea Philadelphia's stumbling blocks to build up the territory of AEK, puts an end to the absurdity and allows the AEK to acquire its own house and to return where it really belongs. The New Democracy could therefore not be opposed because we consider it self-evident that an association of the expulsion and history of the AEK should have its own roof, and indeed where its physical headquarters are, where the first refugees built the old land of AEK in New Philadelphia. And we are positive, because we also firmly believe in the development dimension of the project. Because the construction of the stadium will give impetus to the economic life of the area, stimulate entrepreneurial activity and create jobs. The same, of course, applies to all major clubs in the country. I will mention Panathinaikos, for whom there is intense discussion lately, who is entitled to have his own modern field, worthy of his story, which will meet his needs and host all his parts. All it takes is for them to rely on a realistic plan and respect its thousands of fans and not be a cheap show, with the aim of temporary political benefits. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, tabling this amendment could be a sign of political maturity on your part and signalling the change of your hostile and ideological tendency toward any investment initiative. For no one forgets that it is not many years since your party adopted opinions like those of your former partner, for which there was no reason from my previous colleague, the Mayor of New Philadelphia. Hand - hand, go with Mr. Vassilopoulos until he leaves your party and report you as a memorial. And even today, your parties are saying their support for his face. No one forgets, too, that you were in the lead in blocking the Botanic field with the famous cormorants, that you expressed the misery of undermining every creative effort. So one could think that you have changed radically and supported such initiatives. But because your credibility lies in nadir, we fear that this is still a sign of political opportunism and that you are trying to present as your own success the construction of the field, but also to promise generous fields to everyone. Now that you're stuck on the ropes, with the economy on your knees, and the new steps on the doorways you're calling to vote on whatever way. With society welcoming you every day and your relics and your catastrophic choices. You believe that in this way you will shake the wave of disobedience against you. You'll tell me you've promised in the past everything to everyone. But don't feed, delusional this time. The fans neither have a memory of goldfish nor are naive. The will for the AEK court has been there for three and a half years, because a serious and comprehensive investment project has then emerged. And you who have been ruling for more than two years, how have you promoted it? The application for cancellation of the Municipality of Nea Philadelphia has been rejected by the Board of Directors in March 2015 and has been published since June 2015. How many months, really, did the AEK file remain deeply in your ministerial drawers? So the New Democracy is voting for the amendment that the AEK will acquire the land which has been deprived and, along with it, has been deprived of substantial revenue and is doing so with absolute respect for the Association's world, as it respects the rest of the teams. In conclusion - and I thank you, Madam President -, as far as the government is concerned, all that is concerned, and the celebrity tone cannot, unfortunately, change its frustrating image or balance the damage it has caused to Greek society or erase its actions, for which it will be judged by Greek citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u62	Thank you. Mr Stylus has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment on forestry legislation. Let me say that it is an issue which in a sense runs linearly throughout modern Greek history. The context of forest legislation and its problems, if you wish, is the result of social transformations, political changes, conflicts in many cases of political, local and social nature. We had fellow humans who owned agricultural land and became forests that were declassified and evacuated. Ownership titles, based on oral agreements, testimony. Post-war and, above all, after 1974, we have the urbanization of the country, the intense policing, the desertification of the countryside. Now, in the crisis, we have the return mainly to provincial cities of the population, where agricultural activities are beginning to be on the rise. A complex landscape, therefore, has also been created by the Government in this draft law, rather than simplifying procedures, dissolving the landscape, helping the parties concerned, complicates the situation even further. Therefore, instead of going ahead with constant organized steps on modern forest maps, we have the front - behind the current government. And what did we have? A law passed last year in 2016, where you actually came and voted out for him, we had an attempt to put up forest maps, an extension to posting, an amendment, again an extension, which proves and confirms that all this has been done manually and not on the basis of a plan. Also, what else did we have? We criticised the committee, the debate on this bill and said it did not seem clear, but it was giving the Minister a white authorisation in relation to the price. And the Minister came to the committee, after our pressures and said that it would be the take-over price and the environmental footprint. If they weren't our pressures, we wouldn't have that ending. Why hadn't it been clarified at the outset, and it wasn't clear? Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that L.4280/2014 of the previous government had been denounced at the time by SYRIZA's official opposition, current government, as a disaster for the forests. Today no provision is made by this law. You have barely accepted them in the logic and philosophy of your own bill today. What are you doing with this draft law? Over a million acres of agricultural land are included in the uploaded forest maps to forest land, while they are cultivated agricultural land, the result of your previous law. Citizens, therefore, who have titled property in their hands, who either bought the land or inherited them after two or three generations, are at risk of paying up to EUR 250 million in total as a purchase and change of use. For agricultural land, which has also changed use from forest land, land has been cultivated before 1975, with a final date in 1975, due to the change in the constitution, they will be asked to pay for some money in exchange for the change of use. So at the moment that we should support the primary sector, motivate and abolish the counter-incentives, with today's bill we still have a further burden on farmers and on the people of the earth. Now call on the objections and disagreements to be resolved by the subsidized forests, where in many cases neither the knowledge nor the appropriate human resources will exist, the sufficient quantity enough to process the whole volume that will be created. You add huge bureaucracy and a number of supporting documents that you require the farmers to produce, while things could be easier for the Greek citizen, so that by simpler procedures, using JEPs or other electronic processes, we can facilitate his producer today. You need a portion of our citizens to pay a great deal of money, either to make their objections, to express their objections, or to pay the price to the state. Another characteristic example is the areas that were expropriated by the Greek State, in order to make available for settlement, cultivation, grazing and other beneficial uses. Most of the settlement archives - if not 100% of them - have been drawn up in other projective systems and not in the EAGF system, such as forest maps. Therefore, citizens who are owners of settlement areas who wish to object to forest maps will necessarily be involved in time-consuming and costly localisation detection procedures within the EAFRD system. If forest maps to be drawn up and finalised were to be noted even if only the outlines of the farms distributed by the Greek State were to be minimized, the suffering of the citizens would be minimized. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to refer to an amendment tabled by colleagues. I've heard from the Minister that he won't be accepted and come to a next bill. Isn't that right, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u64	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u65	If you look at this amendment, it seems clear that it has not been written by Members. It is about one-third of the country's fisheries regulation. It's not legal. There has been no dialogue. I would therefore ask that this action be taken, even at the last minute, and that this amendment is not accepted - we do not have such initiatives and actions by Members, because the validity of this House is questioned, we do not solve the problems and we see it fragmented. There are positive points in this bill. One positive point is the amendment concerning the AEK field, an initiative that has been systematically implemented by the former Government of New Democracy, as it was methodically and in cooperation with the stakeholders that was an investment initiative. You come today after two years to give a solution. We are positive in this direction. It is a development move for the wider region. I would like to show the positive initiative in relation to the 'Parco Psinellis' which concerns the Municipality of Ioannistes. I support it. Also good are the articles concerning, for example, the overtime of forest workers, who really offer the country and the community as a whole and such problems must be dealt with. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u66	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, forty-two students and one of the program "ERASMUS" from the Panteion University. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Now, from the list, Mrs Panayota Kozobol - Amanatidis, Member of the SYRIZA, has the floor. Here, my colleague, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, given that the ratification of forest maps is a basic infrastructure project, a prerequisite for the preparation of the Forestry, which will in turn contribute to the completion of the National Land register and the creation of a National Spatial Plan, one would expect, as in every civilised country, that the establishment and implementation of the relevant provisions would result in the absolute acceptance of all of Parliament's wings, collectives, citizens, the media, with one single concern, of the contribution of each individual to the implementation of the project in every case. In our country it has not been done the same. The need for reform has retreated in the face of micro-political purposes, with information and information provided by the citizen. In our country, where the registration and placement of forest land and a map has been drawn up since 1976 with Law 248, and which is perhaps the only country in Europe that has no Land and Forestry, it is necessary and necessary, because our country has been afflicted by the violations of sanctuary, beaches and forests and a large part of the fires are arguably arguably afflicted by deforestation of forest vegetation and peculiarity. Everyone knows that the lack of tariffs only hurts the many and weaker citizens. There was a constant chase with the forest, administrative and judicial services, and representatives of great interests who were trespassing and shaking in infinitely good areas were left unpunished. However, since the forest maps were posted, we have read and listened to a lot of detailed analyses that were set out in pretexts by the need to draw up a register or tariff and through routes of terror, the imposition of character, the loss of ownership, the loss of subsidies, they have come to the conclusion that the ratification of forest maps will be destroyed and that is why they must be withdrawn. There was also misinformation. Even within this Chamber yesterday we heard from a colleague that the previous government recognized in its home country - and my homeland, incidentally - Mani, in the eastern and western Mani, that the state had assigned its rights. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] The government's political will to implement the Constitution and the laws, without at the same time affecting the citizens and the dynamics of primary production, went beyond artificial mob. However, he listened to the calm voices that have highlighted the problems arising from the suspension of forest maps, since, as you know, forest maps do not legislate, but obey institutionalised laws, they are drawn up on the basis of specific laws. With coolness and determination, he made contributions to the current legislative framework to complete the necessary reform, without adverse consequences for the citizens and the economy of the country at a difficult budgetary situation. By ministerial decisions or legislative arrangements the end of the objections was reduced, the maps with the boundaries of the settlements were updated - here the municipalities throughout the country were very responsible - the reforestation of the cultivated land was extended, the deadline for the submission of the objections to a hundred (05) out of sixty (60) days before and it was stated that OPEKEPE would be sent to OPEKEPE to update and the validated map to update the situations for the allocation of crop subsidies. The afforestation has come in cultivated land, and the Opposition Committees have been given the opportunity to examine the nature of land that appears to be resurrected. It was established that the application for the initiation of the redemption procedure of the extruded area suspends the ratification of the forest map to the area concerned. The present legislation provides that, in the case of land interventions up to four acres, a reafforestation study is not necessary, but is required by the beneficiary to pay the relevant expenditure or to carry out the relevant forestry work, and is allowed within the areas of forestry legislation that have been carried out in connection with the construction of projects serving the crop. The interventions for a farm without authorisation by the competent authority are divided, as in the current legislative framework, into two periods - in advance and after 1975 - and the acquisition procedures are further simplified to enable those who have cultivated this land to continue to cultivate it, given the economic crisis affecting our country. This is not only a minimisation of the redemption price from 1/3 to 1/4 of the objective, or if it does not exist, of the market value. Here we have the possibility of giving the applicant the right to use exactly the same effect, i.e. the uninterrupted continuation of the cultivation process and the issue of a certificate of a document to be transferred to the mortgage or to the register. And this right of use acquired can be transferred, inherited and may not in any case inhibit the entire procedure. As far as the market price is concerned, it has been said that it will be in a hundred instalments, the smallest of which will be 30 euros and, of course, to prove its possession, the one who is seeking to buy, or the one who is applying for the concession, must prove that he had it before and held it with several public documents, such as the E9, subsidy certificates for the area in question and sworn statements. The main aim is not to exclude hundreds of farms and aids, thousands of acres of farmed and subsidised land, which now appear as forests. Because, as you know, areas of forest vegetation are subject to a strict protective regime and the change in the destination of the area concerned is explicitly prohibited. The legislature may only exceptionally make it possible to alter the form of forests and forest land for public purposes on the basis of an assessment of the effects of the deterioration on the natural environment. That is why I call for everyone's effort to focus on this, namely that the yield of the once forested areas and today cultivated - Mr Javaras said so in some way yesterday with the new contract, etc. - it is necessary because the national economy and the agricultural holding are important, especially at this time when our country is going through. And an appeal to the Minister. Minister, please complete quickly - you should have done it yesterday! - by ministerial decisions what is missing. In other words, the definition of the consideration, the obvious error and what is needed for the citizen to have a clear picture to be subject to the beneficial provisions of this bill and for the ratification of the forest maps to proceed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Kozobol. Before I give the floor to the President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Dannelly, I will give the floor to Mr Tsakalotos for an amendment, and immediately afterwards to Mr Stathakis for some legislative improvements he wants to make. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u69	Thank you very much, Mr President. From 1-1-2017, the financial services of the Ministries and the other institutions were entrusted exclusively with the control and payment of all their costs. This reform required and requires a great deal of preparation and planning, as well as adjustments to the government's administration and payment systems. In order for these services, which have already undertaken this difficult task, not to be imposed by additional workloads, but also by the services of the General Accounting Office of the State to effectively carry out the additional task of issuing the financial orders of the Public Investment Budget, it is proposed that the matter be settled by extending the deadlines laid down in the State Accountancy Act. An extension of up to 30 April is given for the issue of netting orders and up to 30 June for the performance of an account of the FPIs. It is also noted that the proposed regulation does not give rise to a budgetary burden. The amendment is necessary in order not to cause problems in the payments of the public authorities which have a negative impact on the real economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u70	Mr Minister, for formal reasons on this point we must say that we are talking about the amendment with a general number of 1006 and a specific 122. Isn't that right? I don't know, 'cause maybe I didn't hear it at first.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u71	I, Mr President, have only the law that is amended.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u72	All right, Minister. The Minister for the Environment and Energy now has the floor, Mr Stathakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u73	I will table a legislative improvement concerning the extensions that exist within the law on wind energy production under the current law, of Law 4414/2016. I would remind you that it's two counts. As regards the first category, for the one that had to end the project under the law until 31 December 2018, this date is replaced by ‘31 March 2019’. He's taking a three-month extension. As regards the second category in paragraph 12, which had to be completed by 30 June 2019, this date is replaced by ‘30 September 2019’. By analogy, there is a three-month extension of both categories within the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I would ask that the legislative improvements be distributed in this House as well. The European Parliamentary Representative for the River, Mr Dannelis, now has the floor. Here, Mr. Dannelly, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the eight years of the crisis, the Greek economy has accepted a very strong shock. In a violent way, the traditional model of consumption with borrowed and even imported goods collapsed, the Greek version of a special state-owned parasitic capitalism based on services and consumption. First the victims of the new situation, the employment and the wages of workers. Two hundred and fifty thousand at least have been closed down. Of course, they are businesses, most of which were neither competitive nor extroverters, but they also recycled cheap materials. We have never done what we should do, i.e. detect and implement the terms and conditions for our transition to a sustainable productive model, a new model that would bring national wealth and sustainable jobs. You have undertaken, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, the governance of the country with the culminating slogan 'we will tear the memorials', since you thought that bankruptcy was due to the memorials and not otherwise. Your conflict with reality in the country's first period of governance did not make you wiser. Unfortunately you were not learnt from the mistakes of the 2015 catastrophic negotiation. That is why we are reliving a corresponding nightmare, of course with analogy. The haunted second evaluation that should have been completed since last May is still open. You have forced the real economy to pass for months the torture of the drop, an economy that is paraphrasing because of the prolonged climate of insecurity and mathematics is being driven into a new recession. Escalating uncertainty has driven away within three months 4.5 billion deposits, putting the banking system back into precariousness, a banking system, which I recall has paid for it by recapitalising the Greek people three times. At the same time, we had a growth in unserved loans. Unfortunately, the non-closure of the current assessment has very concrete and measurable effects in the economy, such as the fall in GDP by 1.35% in the last quarter of 2016 alone, the vertical decline in investment due to a lack of confidence. Also, a whole year lost, in 2016. A financial year that seems to mislead, in 2017, and many lost opportunities for recovery with the country's failure to join today in the programme for quantitative relaxation of the European Central Bank, Mr Tragi. It seems to me that the momentum of a budget that left a strand of optimism to overcome the crisis, a budget which I recall predicted an increase in GDP of 2.7%. Today this scenario looks like a distant dream. All the above figures show that oligories are extremely accurate for the Greek economy. The ambitious forecasts for growth of 2.7% are already limited to 1.5%, unless another time is lost. However, overthrowing initial forecasts means fatal new painful measures. The first agreement on the Eurogroup of Malta is the good news. But evil is an increased account. As for the responsibilities of our lenders, the truth is that our trapping in the German-International Monetary Fund, at a time when the first has increased inelasticity due to the upcoming elections, and uncertainty of the second due to the transition to undetermined, even a time of Trump, could have been avoided if the government did not show its grief because of doubts, obsessions and failures. The problem remains a great one: the government does not take over the property of the agreement it brings, and the Qualified Opposition states that it will not vote. It will, however, implement the measures if it governs and asks for direct elections to become a government. We, the Potami, have constantly and almost tirelessly called on the government to take over the agreement it has reached, promoting the necessary reforms that would, of course, prevent painful measures. We will not, however, adopt, on the other hand, the demagogic cries of counter-population and the permanent inclination of its demand for elections here and now, a attitude which shows complete indifference about the additional costs that political destabilisation will bring. At the same time, of course, we do not receive sufficient explanations of how they will charm creditors, avoiding loads of measures. Martin Schultz, a friend undeniable, reminded us yesterday that without the reforms we are constantly avoiding, pushing them into the ultimate future, Grexit's threat will remain alive. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft legislation now under discussion: Great Tuesday today and we, in accordance with the urgency procedure, are discussing a matter of substance, which concerns the chronic problem of the absence of forest maps and an extension of land registers in our country. Lacks that, for a country that is on the hard core of Europe, are unjustified. Lacks that undermine the country's natural heritage and prevent any developmental gain we could gain from the mild and rational exploitation of forests, which of course does, of course, the rest of the civilised world. Instead of preparing a comprehensive forestry policy, however, you are attempting to deal with a booth, with this bill to reduce the price of legitimisation of the extremities, but even of the trespasses. There are problems and they ask for a solution. However, we are sure that in this way we do not offer the solution and open the door to new problems, which we will be called upon to manage tomorrow. What do we have so far on forest maps? We have L.4389/2016 and together with him a piece of modifications to ballasts, which apparently indicate the failures of the main legislation. In other words, they state the lack of an integrated view and strategy on the whole issue. Finally, you end up in today's bill, which seems to be carrying its own problems. The National Register and forest maps are top issues, for which it is incomprehensible that there can be no elementary understanding and elementary continuity of legislation in terms of the state, in terms of the successive governments, whatever they may be. Result? We're bound to point zero. However, the same is true of other topical issues, such as taxation, education and so on, which, as long as we are chasing our tail so badly, do not provide the development results we would expect, the results that the country so badly needs today. What do you finally do in relation to forest maps today? In fact, you are taking out forest land to the hammer, promoting customer relations in the rural world and not in the narrower margins of resolving the existing problems and malfunctions that have been transparent. In the aftermath of 1974 one type of rental is provided for in order to maintain its use. At the same time, while we already have posted forest maps in many areas, we are once again changing forestry legislation. What does that mean, practically? That already posted forest maps can be subjected to changes by owners or users who will attempt, by means of sworn witnesses, to entrust ownership of forest land. If that is the case, I fear that the scourge of the arbitrary residential areas, the famous'separate densities' - as we know - will not only be resolved but will spread over forest areas through this regulation. In addition, with the arrangements that have been introduced and in the absence of insurance controls, you are assimilating offenders to legal users of former forest land. What's the result? You're sending an acquittal message to the trespassers, I'm afraid. This is an option, which costs thousands of acres of forest every year. Of course, I do not believe that this choice on your part can be conscious. In addition, I fear that the draft law under discussion introduces regulations that perpetuate the unacceptable concept of legalising environmental illegality as a public interest, while its plunging and safeguarding our natural wealth is an unfavourable luxury. So if an area has been imprisoned, the forest map has to capture it, as it was in the past, since the Constitution itself clearly states that the forests and forest areas that are destroyed do not lose their forest character. The forest maps are necessary because they protect the natural environment, offer legal certainty and, of course, serve social and economic development. Any unorthodox arrangement intervening in the unfortunately incomplete protective framework, which they are trying to safeguard, can only create or exploit these voids for wicked service. In relation to Amendment No 1014 and special 130, which we tabled with other colleagues from Heraklion Prefecture, it relates to the suspension of forced measures against the Holy Archdiocese of Crete, Minister, I would like you to consider it carefully. This is because, in the process of implementing the town study of Heraklion, the concessions of large parts of the land of the Holy Archdiocese of Crete were not taken into account for the opening of municipal roads and for the provision of public spaces, so that the imposition of great sums of EUR 700,000 would proceed. These amounts, apart from the total impossibility of their payment by the Holy Archdiocese of Crete, have come from a contribution operation that has been directly affected by the Holy Archdiocese of Crete. So what we are asking for is, until an irrevocable decision has been taken on the appeal, in order to suspend the necessary recovery measures and the binding measures, for this regulation to be accepted, because the bound VDD of the Holy Archdiocese of Crete prevents it from doing the work, which has been doing for years and especially in our days, which is so necessary for the most vulnerable aspects of the local communities of Crete. Finally, the Ministerial Amendment No 1016 and a special figure of 182 concerning the concession of the use of hay and beaches is in a positive direction. The concession time and the concession by electronic auction at central level clearly improve the system and reduce the various problems and malfunctions that have occurred in the past. Minister, we consider it necessary to increase fines for arbitrary use in order to discourage offenders. In the case of concessions to coastal hotels and businesses, add the exploitation of maritime sports to the provisions of paragraphs 3 and 4, in order not to create malfunctions with the coexistence of different operators. In the few cases, we have parts of old hayalou, such as Platania or Chania, its parts should also be allocated by ETA. in the municipalities concerned, otherwise there will be new problems. Finally, in the anticipated joint ministerial decision, which refers to the essentials - almost everything - as regards the provision of the municipality's remuneration, in relation to the price of the use of sanctuary and beaches, I think you should consider that the municipalities have the weight - more than the other services they provide or are called upon to provide in these areas - to provide reliable maritime services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr. Dannelly. We continue with the list of speakers. The next speaker is Ilias Cameroon from SYRIZA. Here, Mr. Kamaterre, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Big Tuesday today. "The sin that is in many sins has fallen by a woman." And she repented and was forgiven. The Civic Opposition, however, does not repent nor will the Greek people ever forgive it. And what we didn't hear in here. What a hypocrisy and contradictions! Those who have not been interested in so many years nor in posting the forest maps nor in clarifying what is happening with the grasslands or those lands that have been emptied and cultivated, accuse the current government, which is coming to settle all of this, that it has a raisin, that it is going to decorate the world. Of course, the Minister has shown with evidence that this is not only the case, but prices are falling too. But this tactic, which Acoustic Opposition has brought to science, that is to say keep it all up to date, to hostage the citizens, you understand that it is slowly ending not only in the matter of forest maps, but also in many other issues, which the Opposition has always kept as long as it was government. Look, everyone has stressed the need to put up forest maps. They've been working on it for years. For any mistakes that have been made, it is not the current government's fault. But he's fine, and he's doing the post, because it had to be done at last. Of course, many problems have arisen. And the citizens, in their overwhelming majority - not all of them - are right to complain about many things. But the government, the Ministry, immediately leaned, saw it, understood it, studied it - not to say that he knew much of it - and started to solve it. He's starting to make circulars. He made amendments to laws. I do not mention one - one - so that I do not waste time as they have been mentioned by the Minister. But there are still many problems. You can understand that this is a very complex issue, and it certainly has many details. By addressing our fellow citizens throughout the country, but having experience from my particular region, the Dodecanese, where some islands were posted and our fellow citizens have been worried there, we need to clarify some things. There are some things that the law can solve, but there are some other details that will be solved with carpenters. For example, some price issues have been resolved. I said it before. The bees are separated, where we need to see the details, because especially on the islands, there is a great deal of activity around this area. The municipalities have been given a deadline to inform with the residential areas, settlements, settlements, etc. Here, Minister, I should like to convey an experience: many municipalities do not know it - because I was on island the day before yesterday - and they are waiting for them to come from the Forest Service for a document to answer. We will therefore make an effort to inform all municipalities that they must, as soon as possible, inform the services. But I'm putting on an issue, which I don't know if it's done with a circular or, Minister, we should put it in the law. This is a question of whether it will be necessary to extend the deadlines - which will certainly be necessary - to the islands, because there are, as we know, particular circumstances. There are islands that don't even have services, there are islands that depend on towns in other regions. A characteristic example is the town plan of Kalymnos, which has competence of twelve islands and has only one official. You understand, in other words, what volume of work they will have in this time with residential areas, etc. Minister, there are peculiarities which must be taken into account. And I wanted to come back and stress again that we need to see this - at least that comes out of the debates - with circulars. Each island has its specificity. In Patmos, in the Arquis, in Marathi, there are public claims on property. There is monastic property, which is protected by the Constitution. I close this issue, which concerns the problems - which I am sure will be solved with circulars and which we will be discussing again - by stressing a very serious issue, which has also been raised by other islands - if I am not mistaken by the Ionian people, it has also been brought into the register, and which, as I understand it, cannot be discussed in this bill. But we'll have to put it in one next. And that is no more than the presumption of public ownership, Minister. Because in other areas there is no other area, we have to deal with it in the next period. This is a serious matter for our region as well. I conclude with one of the amendments that have been tabled - and they do well - because many things need to be changed and we do not have time to bring about an amendment to change, and the dates are running - with the amendment to grant the beaches. At last, there's one step going to get in a classroom. There is an option for electronic concessions, for three years, to settle the procedures for the adjacent people who will take the beaches. He had to come. It's already late. So let's not whine, on the occasion, about people from the Opposition saying that we're bringing any further amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u78	We're continuing with Mrs. Merope Jufie from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u79	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we are today in an important, in my opinion, at a time with this legislative initiative, which puts the question of the ratification of forest maps in the final straightforward, thus paving the way for the complete implementation of the register, while at the same time trying to deal with decades of distortion in forestry legislation. The need to draw up forest maps also demonstrates the many legislative efforts that have been made so far. It is also recalled that the drafting of the tariff constitutes an obligation of the State at the time of the constitutional requirement laid down in Article 24. So in today's effort, which the government is doing to deal effectively with the problem and to give a definitive solution, we see the opposition, instead of making a constructive contribution, to demand that the suspension of the suspension of the forest maps should be suspended for a reasonable period of time. The opposition is doing this, and is well aware that such an extension would go beyond the limit set by the European Union to regulate the issue and would result in fines being imposed against our country. This legislative initiative by the Government is directly based on the primary law 998/1979, which is directly derived from the Constitution and the criticism that is being made to it is, I think, the result of the following arguments. So we heard that the problem is that there is a ultra-protective constitution of 1975, which - it says - became a result of dealing with the state of mass forest concessions to the austere people during the junta, a constitution which, in their opinion, gives the State great authority to possess forest areas and with the request that this should have changed to the most easily, in the light of smaller procedures, which was not achieved in the previous attempt to revise the constitution, and that is therefore the reason - which the Left is involved with its ideas - which have not been promoted for for forty years in this landscape. The second argument is that in conditions of economic crisis and a shrinking of agricultural income the existing situation will remain as it stands, as any change will damage agricultural income. With this argument - as other Members have said - I would say that there is a hypocritical interest in farmers, whom this legislation takes seriously. Already, there are statements by the relevant ministers that further improvements will be made with circulars. I would say, however, that, on the part of the counter-population, this actually serves micro-political purposes - and you will allow me to say - a closure of the eye on networks, with its strategy at present postponement, and we are coming to do nothing to change. The third argument is: Not to prepare the bill, haste, not sufficient consultation. I would like to ask the honourable Members what they have done over the past 40 years to draw up the forest maps. If my memory does not deceive me, the New Democracy and PASOK's coup d'état imposed on the officials of the forest services as soon as 2013 to receive incomplete studies of private study offices on which the drawing of forest maps would be based, forcing them to make corrections and in many cases to re-educate from the beginning, resulting in the suspension of only 1% of forest maps throughout the country. Finally, the fourth criticism is that this government has abandoned its previous ecological attitude, even talking about internal controversy about the protection of the forest and the property of the Greek public. What do we answer? The Government and the Ministry, by depositing this legislation, fully implementing the constitutional requirement, proceeded with the implementation of a project of enormous importance for the development of the country, on a rationalised basis with realism necessary, but also with the necessary update of the conditions. And all this, protecting public, environmental and agricultural production at the same time. On this basis, all the relevant government officials have cooperated with the services, have listened to the legitimate concerns of the citizens, but also to the well-established proposals of the local authorities and have proceeded with a number of concrete measures and improvements, which try to resolve and solve, to a sufficient extent, the problems, such as minimising and eliminating the costs of objecting and objections, enabling the forest service to recognise the manifest error, so that citizens can avoid unnecessary bureaucracy and costs, and that will help the provision of hiring up a necessary number of foresters, foresters, to speed up the procedures. A number of forecasts also protected the interests of OPEKEPE and agricultural subsidies. It solves problems with land, which were inadvertently integrated into resurrected areas and many more. Today, then, the National Representation, in a difficult one - as many of the wings have confessed - topic, with serious political responsibilities of the alternating parties, has to decide whether to protect, even now, the interests of the citizens and the public. In conclusion, I would also like to make a reference to Article 8 of this bill, which gives the Municipality of Ioannistes, in my special homeland, the ownership of the Prösinelle Park or more known as the Giannio Salon. And in this case, the government, unlike the practice of previous governments, in a very short time, has rushed to solve the problem, listening to the will of the citizens and giving the municipality a very important forest and recreational lung for the Gianniots. This park, for forty-five years, has known as its owner the Municipality of Ioannites. About ten years ago, his ownership passes into the hands of the Greek State, due to negligence of the municipal authority to declare the extent to the Land register, as it should be. With the completion of the procedures in the Land register, the municipality has been suing the public, claiming this, which has been part of the city for decades. This whole story of ownership has cost Yanna a lot, as the Park is the largest free space and it's like there isn't. The situation there reflects its chronic abandonment. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr President. So, unfortunately, in all previous years there has been no political solution, which now exists. The judiciary was followed and we gave the city of Ioannina the pandemic request, which was the concession of this park. Let me say, therefore, that by voting on this bill, in which many people cooperated and coordinated, and the political leadership and the relevant bodies of the local society at last showed the practical political will to deliver this lung, which will be a very important recreational and environmental beauty, not only for the benefit of the inhabitants of the Lefkanopne, but also of the thousands of visitors to the wider region. I would like to finish by saying that this is the third in a series of public tax returns to the municipality in recent months. It has already been granted in use by the Ministry of Defence an area of the old military ovens in the center of Ioannina. The area of the former military prisons of Ioannina has also been given in the coastal area, a significant area. In fact, two days ago, the approval of funding through an operational programme was announced in response to a request submitted by the Municipality of Ioannistes, so that this uncovered area would be organized in new open local products, artistic events, mild forms of sport and recreational sites. I would therefore conclude by saying that public spaces in the public and local communities, in order to make the best use of them and to help improve the quality of life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u80	The next speaker is Mrs Panayota Brandza from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my position, I would like to comment on the position taken by a fellow Member of the Staff Committee. "This draft law," said the Member, "will lead to the extermination of the rural world". I will not go into the process of saying from which policies and from which parties the rural world is in the difficult position today. Farmers know. I will just say that it is time for the people's representatives to have a more responsible and mature attitude and not to treat populist corons and rational 'all the weights, all the money'. This has been paid and, unfortunately, even today, the farmers are very expensive. As far as this draft law is concerned, it is, in my opinion, a good first step towards resolving a serious issue, which affects both economic activity and the quality of life of citizens. Of course, there are many more steps that need to be taken. For many decades now - it has been about the relevant interpretative statement of Article 24 of the Constitution - we have not been able in this country to define what is, where and what may be the use of the forest. So, those who legislated before us made strict and, in my opinion, hard laws to protect something that was not clear. Of course, the result was not the expected result. And this is demonstrated by the thousands of settlements, with arbitrarily occurring on repeatedly burnt areas, mainly in Attica, but also around other major cities, tourist areas and, in general, in areas of high-value land. Unfortunately, in these cases, strict laws have often not been implemented. On the contrary, forest services often literally applied the law for an arbitrary attitude or a cut tree used for firewood in a mountainous village. This draft law seeks to answer the two main questions, namely what is and where the forest lies. In order to reach the level of serious and complete forestry legislation, however, we should also define the activities that can be carried out in this regard. This must be done without ideals, taking into account people's needs, reality and, above all, common sense. The forest is not and should not be treated as a sacred cow. It is a lasting and precious source of wealth for man. The existence, usefulness and protection of it cannot be without man, needs and activities. There'll be problems. Probably, there will also be injustices. But once it has to be started, so that a series of chaos can enter into total chaos. The discussion on forest maps and forests has started for four decades. Unfortunately, for the forest, but also for the country, there has not been a Greek government to date, which dares to touch the issue. Customer tactics and individual arrangements dominated the common interest. That's exactly what we're trying to change. It is therefore obvious that the programme for the recovery of forest maps, which is under way, aims to shield the public interest, protect the natural environment, effectively identify and safeguard the outdated public land, while also opening up the way to the completion of the register, in order to ensure transparency both public and private property. The question is whether a law can solve the so different problems that arise from the same cause. I explain: A piece of forest or woodland, Minister, which was evacuated in 1949 in a mountainous region of Epirus, in fact covering the need for some people to survive, will be dealt with in the same way, with a corresponding area that was evacuated in 1989 at the foot of Pentelis or Parnitha, and a first three hundred square square square meters were built by law? As far as the areas connected with agricultural subsidies are concerned, obviously we do not have the luxury of losing resources at the moment and quite rightly, this piece remains as a loose end. But the solution must be real and not, once again, artificial. We must finally demand - I know that efforts are being made by the Ministry in this direction - that our partners accept that extensive livestock farming in the country is basically a forestry activity and that the pasture may also be a forest. Of course, we also have to agree that the presence of productive animals in the forest is necessary and necessary. This draft law attempts - and to a large extent it manages - to resolve the issues of the outdated areas, which creates a hostage regime for farmers, the afforestation areas, the outdated areas, which are part of the IAC system, but also the unsolved issue of the forested fields to date. Of course, in no case can we, in view of the fact that, otherwise, the work needed to draw up a valid and useful national tariff, be rid of the real farmers from the production process. In this respect, it is very positive that the forestry bill calls for basic arrangements to simplify and rationalise existing takeover and use procedures, based on the realistic management of the real situation in the country. Overall, however - and this is the reform - with this draft law, at last, forests are not treated as museum species, but as a source of life and wealth, which, with prudent management and coexistence between humans and animals, can contribute to the country's survival. In conclusion, I would like to stress that in any case, the approach of the services to implement and this law will be catalytic. The different interpretations of the dozens of applicable and interpretative circulars that will probably follow can easily lead to unwanted bureaucratic effects. As a joke, as a black sense of humour for their powerless services, it is said that "the ancient Greeks have poured out, because then there was no Archaeological Service". I will draw it a little further with my right - as I am a geotechnic - to say that, if there was a Forestry in ancient Athens, it would be very difficult for Kallikratis and Iklinos to be allowed to intervene in the building of the Parthenon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u82	We continue with Mr. George Panjah from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the suspension of forest maps is a success of this government. It is a claim and a debt of the state, against long-term immunity, illegality and arbitraryness, against the environment, forest and urban legislation. No government, for decades, dared to touch and put order in this blurred landscape. So today, with this bill, corrective action is being taken, in which our government has already legislated, for about a year now. They are corrections, mainly concerning the agricultural world, with favourable regulations for farmers, of course. But, Minister, the process of settlement must be completed very quickly, because, as you know, the problem in Attica is huge. I will not dwell any longer on the draft law, because I would like to talk about the ministerial amendment concerning the construction of sports facilities. I want everyone to know that SYRIZA's position on the AEK court, but also on the Panathinaikos court, as well as on all the stadiums, which concern large or small sports clubs and have been able to build them, is well known for many years. SYRIZA doesn't stand against these construction plans. On the contrary, it supports them and strengthens them. It is enough to pay back to local communities, with the development and upgrading of the region and the creation of new jobs, as is the case with the AEK stadium in Philadelphia. Ladies and gentlemen, football stadiums in our country, which meet European and international standards, are at most two or three. With the creation of large fields, only benefits can sport, local communities and sport itself. In this regard, therefore, the AEK that wants to build its land on its own land, beyond its fanatical feelings and historical reasons, is certain to strengthen and add positive elements to sport, but also to the economy itself. So we must strengthen the local economy in the region and restore an injustice of many years. It was unfair that the old court of AEK was demolished at that time, with some from the time PASOK sharing promises to the fans of AEK that they would build a new field, ahead of the 2004 Olympic Games. Since then it has been fourteen years and - as you know very well - a field has not been done yet. Today, then, conditions have grown a great deal. The Region of Attica, the Ministry of Sports with the General Secretariat of Sports, the Government, the relevant ministries, with this legislative intervention, solve serious technical issues for the continuation of the process. So this regulation concerns all sports clubs. I repeat that. It's an arrangement that simplifies all stages to build a sports field. As you will all know, the AEK represents to a large extent refugee, poverty, lost homelands. I am sure, therefore, that the procedures will proceed, that the building permit will be issued, that the works will begin, and at the end of the day the new court of AEK will be sure that it will be SYRIZA. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u84	Mrs Maria Antonio has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u85	Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, as in most of the bills of the SYRIZA Government, we are now witnessing the same parliamentary unacceptable tactic - it follows in almost all the bills the government - that is, the incredible manipulation with which it legislates, but also bilingualism and hypocrisy, which characterizes it. And I'll justify the concepts I used. On a very important issue, therefore, such as the forest map, which concerns hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens, the government chooses - and we have heard it from all of our colleagues that it is very important - once again the urgency procedure, without any public consultation and without any possibility of substantial dialogue in this House. It was also noted by all the relevant bodies. THE EDUCATION, the Pan-Hellenic Association of Forestry, the Agricultural Chamber of Deputies expressed their opinion that they did not even have the time to study this bill. Minister, I tell you very clearly, as a forestist, about issues which have to do with the constitutional obligation to protect forests and public property, you cannot legislate by express procedures without a fertile public debate. And the sloppyness with which you are dealing with such a serious issue is a great deal more than the fact that with today's bill you are trying to correct for the third time in less than a year your mistakes and omissions. Yours is Mr.4389/2016, whose implementation has caused numerous reactions both due to the errors of imprinting and the problematic procedure and the deadlines that our fellow citizens had to object to the newly established committees. You then rushed with an amendment to Law 4462 to extend 45 days to the deadline for submitting objections for already posted maps. And today you bring a new bill that instead of giving solutions to these problems, what does it do? It actually introduces a new raisin. It sets up a new tax-driven mechanism, amending only one article by n.4280/2014 that was passed by our government. And this law is for two and a half years in effect. And here lies your hypocrisy and bilingualism. At that time, you described him as counterpopulation as a forestly law, saying that it puts gravel on the forests and you argued that you would abolish him immediately. Another announcement by SYRIZA that falls into the void. You told us that home are the mountains, the land, the forests, the cavalry and the people who live here, not the numbers. That's what you said as Opposition. Now you've forgotten all this, now the numbers are counting. You obviously need money to nominate others with a disgrace, as attempted to be done with the amendment of the sixty-two Members of your Parliament with the recruitment of TWG and GFCF. I am referring in particular to Article 2 and the redemption price which provides for the areas which have been exported before 1975. Minister, you are well aware that in the 1940s and 1950s our economy was trying to recover by emphasising agricultural and livestock production, there were unfortunately cases that have changed use and from forests to agricultural land. It is really unfair, after fifty - sixty years, to punish their offspring, who have been cultivating these lands over the years to make a living, and to oblige them, in order not to lose their land, to pay a double price and buy-out fee and possibly a financial consideration for the environmental balance that arises, he says, by changing use. Unfortunately, it concerns most of the small and medium-sized farmers and farmers whose predecessors did not have the opportunity in the 1940s and 1950s, neither to have access to the courts and the forest ownership committees to obtain the strong titles of property. If you think that from the present procedure to the suspension of forest maps about one and a half million acres, which are agricultural land today, it seems to be a forest area, and that in these cases the presumption of public ownership applies, you understand that the vast majority of land owners will be charged at the purchase price, but also at the end of a change in use. With rough calculations, therefore, our farmers and farmers will have to pay in the next few months about EUR 250 for each acre they hold. So, apart from the increase in VAT, the increased insurance contributions, the contributions of EKKA, the increase in agricultural oil, you are burdening the agricultural and livestock world with another raisin, which is estimated to exceed EUR 250 million. So you put a tombstone with evidence in the tested agricultural world and condemn primary production. I would also like, very briefly, to refer to Article 5 which provides for the recruitment of staff to support the addresses of forests from the CRP SA by way of derogation from the existing provisions. Minister, because of my status as a forestist and with a clear picture of the subsistence of forest and forestry services, which has been said by all the institutions, I have often pointed out that it is not possible for forests to be filled with seasonal staff recruitment. In addition, all the assessment findings of forestry services drawn up by evaluation committees were concluded that forestry services should be supported by permanent staff in order to be able to be effective and functional and not of an emblematic type. I sincerely hope that you do not attempt with this provision to open up another recruitment industry from the CSCE to serve a few days without even having been costed by the General Accounting Office of the State how much it will cost. In conclusion, I regret to note that at the same time as you agreed to reintroduce pensions and reduce the tax rate, you will be rushing into the Great Week, with emergency procedures, to introduce another ranch for small and medium-sized farmers who are invited to walk their own Golgotha at risk of losing the land they have grown for decades. Nor do you care about the protection of forests than the survival of fellow citizens. The only thing you are interested in is your own political survival and in order to prolong it you will not hesitate to take any measure, no matter how hard and unjust. You proved it a few days ago in Malta, you can prove it today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u86	Mr Jason Fotillas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, what have you got, Yannis, what have I always had? In this popular phrase, what the SYRIZA - ANEL government is doing today is summarizing. In fact, it is a problem that is becoming a travesty of legitimisation. In other words, it comes to a law, with urgent procedures, without consultation, with reference to earlier laws and, at the end, with a miracle what results? New taxes and charges. Of course, amendments, even Members of the SYRIZA, who want to circumvent the AACC for recruitment to the Improvement Agency. Even this amendment that is in a positive direction to the AEK's court runs counter to the Mayor of New Philadelphia, who you, the government, supported him and now you are fighting with him. But the most characteristic of the bill is this: again, that is, you bring the law passed by the Government of New Democracy in 2014, by Law 4280, which you then complained through your current rapporteur, Ms. Iglezi, as a foresticide. Unscrupulous hypocrites like always. But what to expect, when a government rapporteur for the bill is a Member who has made a political career, organising a lyric opposition to one of the largest private investment in the country, that of gold in Skouries, to tell us now, like Mr Skourlets, that the investment must go ahead. We will not forget anything, colleagues, especially what you have done by putting citizens of local communities in a civil war. I'm going back to the bill. Its substance is in Article 2. Despite the reduction in the amount of redemption of agricultural land before 1975, the government imposes a raisin on the agricultural sector, a key productive sector in the country, for the people of hardship, who are today struggling to maintain themselves in their field. And how do you impose the charge? In addition to everything else's money, for a change of use through the environmental balance. In other words, the land of the current growers' grandparents, before 1975, and paid for these taxes, taxes of inheritance, HICPIA, etc., is now being asked to pay a new raisin. In areas like Thessaly, for example, this is a huge burden. And we're not talking about a few areas, but a total of about one and a half million acres of rural land. And we are not talking about five-year-olds, as if each acre is imposed and a change in usage, it will be a burden of a few hundred million, about three hundred, a normal charge in the pockets of the citizens. Do the forest maps have to be compiled? Obviously it must and must be the state's obligation, but it cannot always be done at the expense of the citizens and with new carpets, at a time of great difficulties for everyone. It is more than sure that this money, in whatever instalments you make, will not be collected because of their real weakness in payment by farmers and farmers. Our proposal is that the areas which have been landed for agricultural use before the 1975 Constitution enters into force, i.e. for forests about eighty years ago, should not fall under the provisions of forestry legislation and should not fall under paragraphs 8 and 9 of Article 47 of the Law. 4280. Thus, farmers will not be invited today, in 2017, to pay any financial compensation for the change of use for something that was done for reasons of national interest fifty, sixty or eighty years ago and which currently contributes to the Greek economy. Show, even at the last moment, that you do not just want to tax the primary sector of this country, as you have unfortunately done so far through the increase in VAT and the increase in the contributions currently charged to Greek farmers and farmers. Of course, I don't have any delusion. What can be expected from a government that has come to prejudicialize 3.6 billion meters, committing the next New Democracy government as well? Yes, they are the same measures as the Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras, said a few days ago, that they are unconstitutional and undemocratic and they are not going to be voted on. What happened, so now and in one night they became democratic? Same violin every day! But citizens have understood and approached the day of your collapse, whenever the elections take place. We have heard for so long that the government does not give up on principles. And since we all know now that your only principle is to remain in power, it was obvious that you would give everything. You did not negotiate for the country, you negotiated only for your stay in power. Your only concern was whether pension cuts and tax-free from 2019 or 2020 will begin to apply. Nothing else matters to you. The account, however, is unshakable for the citizens and the country. As for the last joke, the one with the countermeasures, the only serious countermeasure that may exist is to leave now before you do even greater harm at the place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u88	Mrs Fotini Arabaji has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Great Tuesday today and I am thinking of the Prime Minister's words a very year ago, that the resurrection of the Lord will come as well. A year ago, unfortunately, the real economy is experiencing a tragic situation, the evaluation has not yet been closed, despite the triumphant words of the Prime Minister for the Malta Eurogroup, and the only certainty is the'removal' of employees and pensioners by reducing pensions and cutting tax. Once again, the Prime Minister's statements and assurances that there will be no new euros have proved to be a lie. Once again, Mr Tsakalotou's threats and reassurances that he will resign if taxfree falls below EUR 9 000 have proved to be a lie. Once again, the Prime Minister's triumphant words that measures will have a zero budgetary effect have proved to be a lie. Of course, the only measures that will be voted on and implemented are reductions in pensions and reductions in tax. Your great countermeasures are sectarian, if and if the surpluses of more than 3.5% are caught. I now come to the present draft law. No one disputes that the issue of forest maps must be resolved in a meaningful and long-term way. But you, by bringing up for the third time during your administration arrangements for forest maps, are using the regulation, not as a means to solve vital problems, but rather as an opportunity to impose new ramifications for farmers and farmers, who are today struggling to survive and continue to cultivate their farms by means of the tax and insurance raid you have with your policies. Examples of the redemption price, which you impose on those who have titled land and have landed forest land before 1975 for reasons of national interest and in order to be attributed to the cultivation of agricultural land and livestock. With regard to changes in use, please make it clear: Those who currently own them from a purchase or legacy of agricultural land, which have changed their use before 1975 and from forest land have become cultivated, will be asked to pay for the change of use? Make it clear: Is it fair to pay those who are entitled to property and make a change of use in the field after 1975 by administrative action of the state? And it is not just the fact that producers are invited to pay for the change of use fees, they are also invited to pay opposition fees. And in spite of the Minister's assurances of reducing the evil to submit an objection, this was only finally applied for small lots up to twenty acres. At the same time, while the draft law gives the right to take over from farmers of outdated agricultural land with various facilities (PPC, tanks, shelters), why does it not do the same for outdated areas in which livestock are located, so that farmers can also make it easier for them to obtain a permit for establishment and to settle their arbitrary livestock buildings? Also, farmers under this title of ownership they have the right to transfer, the right that farmers are deprived of. Why? Another question that needs to be solved directly relates to the public land in reafforestation, distribution and property of the Ministry of Rural Development, at altitudes of more than a hundred metres, areas which appear, according to these maps, as grassland, subject to the provisions of forestry legislation, so that they leave the ownership and responsibility of the Ministry of Rural Development, go to YPEKA, and so farmers who have legal rights and thus rights to activate Community aid to deal with a problem. The problem that will exist as long as, ladies and gentlemen of the government, the most important management plans are not issued by the co-legislative Ministry of Rural Development in order to clarify the eligible areas of the IACC and to get farmers and farmers their subsidies. It is worthy of wonder - and our rapporteur has commented - why the bill is not signed by the Minister for Rural Development, but simply by his Deputy, because the problem I am referring to would be, ladies and gentlemen of the Government and ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, solved in December 2015, if with L.4351 of the Ministry of Rural Development for grazing land, you did not postpone for 2019, instead of in 2017, the final grazing plans which would, at last, clarify forest land from pastures. Today, in 2017, we have not yet reached a ministerial decision on how to make final grazing plans. A legislative gap, a legislative regulation that you have taken for 2019, from which, ladies and gentlemen of the government, there are many problems. The first thing that has been created was the delay for the first time in the times of the Community subsidies that you have lately paid to farmers and farmers, because there was no clear definition of the eligible pastures. The second problem is with the shipwreck created by organic farming and livestock farming, where you have effectively set all farmers on foot from a programme necessary for the survival of their farms. A national negotiation which you have really planned and lost, which enabled our country to multiply impressively and above all legally with Community regulations, the eligible areas of pasture in our country, for the first time in the definitions of pastures, the plentiful, woody and torchy areas of specific Greek geography. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Your tolerance, Mr President, for a moment. And I come to the painful issue of recruitment to TWGs and GEBs that showed the complete incompetence and carelessness of your government and was a full confirmation of what we told you a month and a half ago. In other words, when you put Article 46 of Law 4456/2015 which, until yesterday, with an amendment of sixty two Members, you wanted to be suspended and, of course, you will be taking it back to day. What were we telling you then? We told you that, first of all, it is advisable to give the recruitment of permanent staff outside the AACC procedures. And number two, with regard to seasonal staff, that it was not going to work in this timely process, which you imported, namely seasonal staff from where TWGs decided and approved by the municipalities, to go to the regions. You have seen the results, they are almost losing the pottery of the TWGs, they have pressed you and you have gone to bring an amendment to solve the issue - and you have also brought the wrong legislation, which you have taken back. Meanwhile, what is it that comes with seasonal staff, Lord knows! In conclusion, within this condolence of refreshments, you have fortunately agreed, after repeated parliamentary interventions of the New Democracy, to really deal with an issue that was major in terms of Greek livestock farming, what the farmers who were confronted with were in the vicinity of the country's traditional settlements, because of the legislative framework that prevented them from legalising their statistic facilities. Especially in the Serres Prefecture I come from, a whole municipality, ladies and gentlemen, the Municipality of Amphipolis with the well-known Kasta hill, put its farmers essentially on foot, since their facilities were all located within a radius of less than three thousand meters of traditional settlements, since this is a region that is characterized by its entire villages as traditional settlements, creating a single grid. Thus the livestock farming of an entire region was in danger of being convicted definitively, since farmers were being seized from exercising their livestock activity and the paradox was that the Archaeological Service, which was being killed in the Forestry, was approved. It is now re-establishing this regulation and, of course, that is the best. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, after Easter, we will be in this Chamber again to vote for you, the Members of SYRIZA and ANEL, the measures which will, unfortunately, affect the income of all citizens. These measures only have your own stamp and will only have your own vote. Whatever you do to charge the next government, it will fail, because you may have agreed on the measures to be implemented in 2019 and 2020, but we all know that these are the inappropriate measures of your disastrous negotiation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u90	Mrs Vagonakis has the floor from SYRIZA. The Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, Mr Papachristopoulos, will be followed. After Mr Papachristopoulos, on the basis of the list, they are two other speakers and the list is closed. I say this in order to prepare the rapporteurs, the speakers for their speeches, and, of course, the parliamentary representatives for their abbreviations, those who wish to do so. Mrs Vagonakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd say you're not so transparent. Don't be in a hurry. The only one who deserves to judge us is the Greek people and that will happen when the elections are held and they will be late. This bill is a good draft law. It concerns forest maps and thus the creation of a tariff. He comes to reply to the constitutional check, Article 24 of the Constitution, and amends provisions of Law 998/1979, of course, and other laws, which actually talked about the need to create a tariff in our country. The truth, however, is that about forty years after Forestry there is no one, because this has been confronted with small and large interests, micro-transactions and day-to-day services. The creation of a Forestry, as well as a Land register and Territory, which are absolutely essential for the creation of a rule of law, must be conquered and become development tools for the state and local communities. Obviously, they are not revolutionary acts. However, these are civil matters. They are, however, called for in the era of Kapodistrias, Trikoupi and on the other hand. We want these issues and we want to move on and move on. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been said that the bill has collective logic. However, how can we talk about collective logic when, for example, we have reduced the amount of money, which was provided for your own law, for objecting to 80% of the young and 50% to 60% of the average area? Secondly, when this bill also applies to areas which were landed before 1975 for agricultural use, i.e. before the 1975 Constitution enters into force and maintains that use, is the purchase price expected to be equal to 1/4 of the objective or market value, even paid in monthly instalments, which can even reach 30 euros a month? It has also been said by other colleagues that this bill should be withdrawn, because we are not ready. I know that this is also proposed by all institutions who are not in this Chamber. But I believe that they are due to a lack of information. Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal is equivalent to a proposal to ensure that there are never forest maps and tariffs, or to discuss this again forty years. I believe that there are prosperous ears on the part of the government for improvements and modifications, which will simplify and further block the process for the benefit of both the citizens and the public interest. But what must not be done is to cancel the procedure, which is already under way. Another point which I would like to raise is that I see through the bill a desire to help the agri-food sector, to solve loose ends and to smoothly carry out its activities in the natural environment and with a balance-sheet relationship. This is also provided for in Article 2 for construction which serves agriculture and Article 3, which includes all farms in the agricultural sector, such as aquaculture, etc. On the other hand, strict criminal and administrative penalties are provided for a change in land use. That is absolutely right, because we want to defend the forest, as is the constitutional check. I am also happy to see that there is a set-up for the plain grazing areas and for other issues, which have been stirring up for many years by citizens, services and all of us and of course also employing my region. Ladies and gentlemen, many issues may still be resolved. However, I believe that it is a common place for the bill to establish rules and create a clear picture of our forests and by this way to defend them. Before I close, I would like to note what this bill does not solve. The property regime, which, for historical reasons, has peculiarities in several areas of our country - and in my own - also because of the different rights that existed before their harmonisation with Greece. But these are issues which should be the subject of a separate debate. And I think that, Minister, must be clear. Ladies and gentlemen, for all these reasons, I would like to invite you to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u92	Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, Mr Papachristopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr President. The first thing an investor wants to come to a country is if there's a Forestry and a Land register. That's the first thing he's gonna do. I would like to make a simple reminder that there is no country - but no one - out of the twenty-eight European Union, not the Eurozone, that does not have a register and a tariff. The only country that has deprived this is Greece, is our country. I hear the tons go up here for this, that and the other. No objections. No one said everything would be corrected at once. But should this story once be finished definitively and irrevocably? Do you remember what was going on with the fines that the European Union was putting on us for the lack of a register? Not to scratch wounds and not to name people, who are still in this House today, and who had been indicted by the European Union for lack of a register. Nobody said he was perfect. I would like to believe that forest maps are a first step, not the last one, to resolve this issue definitively. It is the first step to get to the register, to end this and to make the country normal. Because it's not yet. I keep to the positive that proposals have been made. I was pleased to hear the Deputy Minister say that 95% of these proposals were taken into account. Even the comments made in committee have taken them into consideration and this seems to be the case here. I want to mention the example of Patmos. Indeed, the island of Patmos cannot be 80% woodland. However, an extension was made. They expect prerequisites and will actually be corrected. I think it will be corrected. There's a lot more I could mention. I think too many of my fellow Members in detail have raised the matter of forest maps. It's a step forward and we all have a sacred obligation to help this step. I want to believe that today that the vote will take place, there will be no reservations, because I have not seen any terrible, incredible difference in particular matters. I think it was so good for the Minister responsible, who almost most of them were accepted. I would also like to make a comment and say that our country is what many, without exaggeration, call the 'global filet'. He happens to have plains, mountains, seas. Really, it's a country with a great climate. We have a sacred obligation to preserve and legislate for there to be a regularity and for there to be no "pot dog, algey", for everyone to do what they want. It is a first step in this treasure that nature gave us, luck - as you say - to safeguard him. That's what this bill does. You know very well that this government is allergic to this general culture of money profit, which we need. But that's not the first one. I believe that the environment was, is and will remain a source of life for all of us. I think a first step comes with this bill. I would like, however, because I have heard some extreme words from the Parliamentary Representative of the River, from a Member of the New Democracy, to say this. I'm going to go a little bit on top of the news, because I think we're living a lot of moments. Because catastrophe, overexcession, alteration of news are on the front line every day, I would like to say the following to put things in place: No one triumphed about what happened in Malta. Nobody. It is a first step, however, that has to be done. At the level of a technical agreement it is almost certain that this will be ready when the institutions come after 24 a month. I would also like to remind you that it is very important for us what will happen at the IMF Spring Session from 21 to 23 of the month. In order to get into quantitative relaxation, which for us is the most important part in this roadmap, the IMF should have declared what it wants with us. I dare take the risk and say that the medium-term measures on debt and surpluses have been almost predetermined. The exact time of the surpluses and their amount after the three years may not yet be known. We'll see it along the way. However, it is certain that the country must leave this great memorial tombs. Today's Siomple's statement, which was never our friend, says with simply greek that there will be no fourth memorandum for the country and especially that the country will be tested on the markets in 2017 in order to be able to come out definitively at the end of the program, i.e. somewhere in August 2018. This is today's statement. The rest is risky, parasitic. We didn't triumph. We know very well that blackmail has played a decisive role in this delay. He confesss to it today in the most official way German state radio. A few days ago Peter Boffinger, an economist from the five people who advise Merkel, gave an interview to the Athenian Agency. Read it. I or some of SYRIZA or some of the Independent Greeks might not be so enthusiastic about what this government has done. Moskovisi on his tweet writes he's the only country to do two hundred Memorandum obligations. No country has done so before, and I doubt France could. Everything indicates that the country will come out of this stagnation and will come out of it. I'm telling you, we know people are going through a lot of trouble. No one triumphs. But there is one difference: we have a sacred obligation to leave behind the old, tons to fall, and I would recommend to the party of the Officerial Opposition a real good intention. The extremist tactic "go now, to save the country", which I have heard from a sympathetic MP, has no place in a party of which you are wrong - I want to believe - its own history and its tradition. Sooner or later this government will enter into everyday life and the problems that really concern the Greek citizen and there are too many. We are the ones who care about e-government. It is of great importance to us that all the nodes are delivered. It is of great importance to us that farmers for the first time after many years have not closed down roads. It is very important for us not to see citizens in the trash cans again. It is of great importance to us that the daily lives of the citizen. Above all, we will never be forgiven by the Greek citizen for what has been done for many decades, a large - small - I would say - part of political representatives - fortunately, not all - to spread. This is unforgivable, and I think that the beginning we are currently doing is binding on us. No one says that no pension will be reduced for two years and no tax-free for two years. And almost a large part of the civilians think it's going to happen tomorrow. No, it won't happen tomorrow. And we'll see if it happens. Like the first money they've had, the 617 million euros, some people have not eaten it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u94	You gave it to Balaura!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u95	I would like to make a comment on Balaura and Maki Yakumato. And it has nothing to do with the criticism of the parties, but it has to do with how journalism takes place in Greece. Ask a tax agent - let a journalist ask a tax agent - whether the government was delaying a week and not giving them up, if they would be lost, if they would go to next year's budget. Yeah, they took it, and some people who shouldn't have taken it. A hundred, two hundred, three hundred, five hundred, a thousand? In the scales one and a half million, or those thousand who didn't ask for them? Is that the journalism? Because you're causing me, I'm telling you with good intentions and love - because you too could have taken me and I don't know who else - that this money would really be lost. I will conclude - calmly and I would like to say that the tone has to fall - saying that from now on it is a new start. Some people don't understand it. I am exposing myself to tell you that this is a new beginning for the country and we must all lower the tons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u96	Mr Ioannis Saridis has the floor from the Centroon Union, which is the last speaker, since he was deleted at the end. Then we enter the process of secondary rapporteurs and parliamentary representatives. Here, Mr Saridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u97	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have asked for the floor in plenary to state the concerns of a large proportion of our fellow citizens, who, like myself, understand that the implementation of this law has the potential to drastically strengthen the national effort to get out of the crisis, but on the other hand, the poor implementation of its provisions or any failure to implement its provisions could bring about this ending blow. This dynamic ensures that the draft law under discussion is implemented, because it is based on a determination, which stems from the undeniable and joint declaration that the country has a real and absolute need for forest maps. This determination of the Greek citizens has been decided to turn it against the government, which cannot speak and express itself against the Greek nature. I agree with the conclusion of Mr Amyras, who expressed the view that this bill, as he said attributes, gives forgiveness to those who traded the Greek land before 1975. The Land register and forest maps are development tools but also the basis of many different laws. The fact that it arrived in 2017 to acquire these tools, proves and demonstrates the size of the waste, the mismanagement and the irresponsibility collectively demonstrated by the post-government governments for many decades. Having said this, I am going to comment on the amendments, which you have not been able to avoid, Mr Minister, in this bill either. I would like to begin with the amendment tabled by the Group of the European Central Bank that you have not accepted, unfortunately in our view. I will, however, accept explanations and inform the Minister responsible more fully, and I hope that we will return it at the first opportunity. Let me just two words about this amendment. This is a legislative initiative which effectively tackles a problem which is well known to all of us because of the lack of provision of appropriate transitional provisions in the relevant laws. Therefore, while those who bought land over two hundred and fifty acres, taking into account the provisions of the 1994 Law, which recognised the nullity of the old provision, with the existence of a ministerial decision, from then on, the courts did not have to deal with them. Unfortunately, a law was adopted in 2012, which did not contain the necessary transitional provisions. Thus, this problem was created, that is to say, in the 'air' and to resort to justice, thereby burdening its work only because the legislator did not provide the appropriate transitional provisions. It is therefore a question of restoring parity. It is another injustice that we could lift by reaching consensus in the face of self-evident. I hope we can get a solution as quickly as possible. I move on from my side to commenting on some of the amendments that have been tabled. With regard to Amendment 1005/121 and Amendment 1006/122, the extensions, in substance, of the deadline for the submission of the 2016 Assets Declaration and the extension of financial orders for the current financial year by one month after their expiry, are an extension. The problems with extensions are not solved. They're just perpetuating. Amendment 1007/123: Finally, the way you will try to solve the problem that has been created around the AEK stadium is to show to the municipal authority of New Philadelphia who is finally in charge. You're changing the regulation and that's no longer why they're talking about it. Problems solved in such a way are very likely to create new ones. We agree on building the AEK's field. AEK is a great group of Athens. The AEK has a live story. PAOK also has a live story in Thessaloniki. History has roots. The roots of the AEK are in New Philadelphia. But we would like you to find a way to support it, too, for the local community, for the local government, instead of going to such a terrain. Amendment 1015/131: The provisions of Law No.4389/2016 are amended and the issues relating to the full ownership separation of "ADMTO S.A." by "PCTO S.A." are rescheduled. The fact that Mr Skourletis spoke of a firm tender and has not been asked by the government or of giving public explanations or resigning is the only comment that suits him to such an amendment. Amendment 1016/132: Replacement and supplementation of provisions concerning the granting of the mere use of the cauliflower. The fact that you have made such a decision so important for the Greek beaches and you choose to surprise the members of the Greek Parliament obliges us to vote against it. It is problematic in its wording, and it should come to the relevant committees in time, and not now in the light of the start of the tourist season, while some people are trying to defend the government's social vision, effectively proposing the dismantling of tourism in our country as an equivalent to the minimum guaranteed income. I am referring, of course, to the Members of the government who, without compromising the consequences of such a decision, have proposed the legalisation of free camps. Ladies and gentlemen, I am closing my introduction by giving you a very important piece of information. This morning in the context of the follow-up to the process of delivering the fourteen regional airports to "FRAFORT", in order to see where the government has put the "red line" between the sale and the recovery, and while I await answers from all the ministers concerned about the greatest privatisation that has ever been undertaken in Greece, I was informed that the new website of the airport "MAKEDONIA" is arbitrarily presenting the airport "MAKEDONIA" as the main airport of Thessaloniki. The website that corresponds to the airport "MAKEDONIA" is now the Thessaloniki airport.gr. I would like to say a lot to you, Minister, but I am interested in you doing what I have to do rather than accusing you with very heavy words. Protest where you are judging, too, so that this person can be directly corrected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u98	With Mr. Saridis, the speaker's circle has been completed. The suggestion from the Bureau is that we move first into the circle of speeches by the rapporteurs and speakers, then that those of Parliament who have expressed their wish to intervene and close the Minister. As far as I can see, this House agrees. Mrs Iglezis, rapporteur of SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate that is taking place is very interesting. But it would be even more efficient if the anti-population colleagues, all the days that we are discussing the bill in committees and in the House, had the trouble of reading the proposed regulations and listening to our suggestions, much more to read the laws, which they signed as ministers and voted as MPs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us be serious. The fact that you wanted to legislate in 2014 for farmers, and you have finally legislated, does not relieve you of your responsibilities. The carpets to farmers, which you tell us we are the ones who legislated today, you have imposed them, you have imposed them. The economic studies and the purchase price, you legislated them. We come to reduce the redemption price and abolish economic studies. If you really wanted to give the outdated land, which is being cultivated today, to farmers for free, you would have legislated it, as you legislated on the complex tourist accommodation and golfing in forests and forests. So let this incomplete opposition stop and admit that the arrangements in this bill solve problems in the rural world. The purpose of the proposed arrangements is clearly that. As long as you are shouting, farmers know very well that the specific arrangements are only to alleviate the financial costs and the bureaucratic procedures that you have adopted. The issues that have emerged in the rural world, due to the suspension of forest maps, are only the beginning of the varnishe called Forestry and landfilling of the country. But we must end this bucket, not only for the benefit of rural areas but also of environmental protection. The forest maps must move forward and be completed, with statements made known to the people concerned and not, as a Member of the House has revealed, and in 2013 on a PASOK-New Democracy co-existence, where the maps were posted, he says, but the citizens did not understand it and so they could not solve their problems. Why didn't the state inform them that there has been a suspension of forest maps? Why has the whole country learned today that we have uploaded forest maps and that we are going to solve problems? So the forest maps must move forward and be completed so that the citizen knows what is forest and what extent else and what intervention he can make and how. On the other hand, the Forest Services should be released from one-dimensional employment by means of characterisations and finally focus on their real work, which is the protection and management of forest ecosystems, which is far behind. And since we are talking about the Forest Service, you should be ashamed, ladies and gentlemen, of spilling crocodile tears for the Forest Service, because you have been responsible for its ascension for thirty years now. And that didn't happen by accident. It was done in order to serve your own interests. The Forest Service prevented you from serving the interests of your "days". Since 2012, there has been no seasonal staff hired to the Forest Service, nor this seasonal staff - yes, do not laugh - that you hired in October, says about fire protection. I've worked, too. I was hired October to make fire protection! You've been unreasonable! Because I see that I do not have enough time to talk about the articles - I think there has been enough information about the articles - at this point I would like to thank the Minister for the suggestions made by the committees and the opposition's request for the protection of the nature of the land, granted to the Municipality of Ioannites, has been heard and resolved by the legislative improvement proposed by the Minister for the Environment and Energy. Finally, I should like to inform Mr Fotella that I was, I am and will be opposed to the so-called gold investment in Halkidiki and to assure him that it will not proceed, Mr Fotilla, because it has insurmountable problems both with the protection of the environment and with the application of legality and much more with the public interest. Oh, and Mr. Firela, I've always been on the left. I don't build a political career, changing parties like shirts.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u100	The rapporteur for the New Democracy, Mr Skreka, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u101	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u102	Mr. Screka, wait a minute. Mr Fotillas asked for the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u103	Just a minute. First of all, let me say that I may have changed my party, since I was persecuted from the party I was in, and I did not leave, but I did not change what I was saying. I keep saying the same thing. I don't know if my colleague can claim exactly what she and all SYRIZA have said that she is continuing to say the same now. So I may have changed a party, but my colleague and the others of the coup d'état have changed their party by a hundred and eighty degrees. That's the reality. Now, the local players there and the whole society remember what they said and what they do today. Although that's the terrible thing, what other ministers say, but the MPs say. One says his short, the other's long. They don't even agree with each other anymore.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u104	All right, Mr. Light. I don't think you need any more. Mr. Screka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr President. I do not think I need to comment on what the honourable Member said earlier about shame and whisper, because it is the world that will judge. And the world, in fact, sees a party, SYRIZA, who said other things before he came to power, and more says and more does now. So who's ashamed and who's not, dear colleague, I think the people will judge it. And you should know that the people will be a much stricter judge than we are. I would also like to ask a question of a rhetorical nature. Many of the SYRIZA Members who are in the Chamber today, two years ago, when Law 4280, which also included Article 36 amending Rule 47 of Law 998/1979, had then requested a roll-call vote and had voted against that article. And they had not voted against it, because the redemption price, which was then one-third of the objective value, while now you come and do it the1/4 of the objective value, but they had come and voted against, dear Minister of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL, then SYRIZA MPs, because they considered that this article is a forestic article, that it causes enormous damage to forests, that it gives forests to supposedly trespassers and that this is how public property is lost. It is this article that is coming today and celebrated to vote for it, because you do make a more favourable regulation. But you probably don't want to understand what we're telling you. It took you two - three years to come from where we started. However, we are once again telling you 'Come on, let's go together one step further forward'. I'll explain what I mean. There is an obligation not to say this because the agreement you have concluded with the institutions, but there is now a need in that country to complete both the register and the Forestry. Let me note that the Forestry as term and definition was included in Law 998/1979, which was then passed by the New Democracy thirty - forty years ago. Of course, nothing has happened since then, with the responsibility of those who have been through, but we are coming here today and we are talking about it. We need to set a line at last and see how we can move forward. So we say to you, 'Let's take a step forward'. There is an obligation to post the forest maps. There is an obligation to solve the problems, because the forest maps were posted and even the Caldera of Santorini appears to be a forest area, as well as large areas of Attica, which are today cities. Krioneri is a suburb, Agios Stefanos, Nea Makri, north and south suburbs of Attica, villages and settlements throughout Greece appear to be forest land while inhabited by thousands of our fellow citizens. So we need to see how we solve these cases. We are therefore telling you that these cases need to be corrected. But we are coming to the major today, which is the farms, the farmland, the agricultural land. We're telling you this. Of the one and a half million acres, which now appear on the forest maps as forest land, they are cultivated, they are not forest land. Their use is now agricultural. They are used by farmers in the Greek countryside who are trying to survive, trying to live their families and trying to contribute to the development of the Greek economy, but also to meet the nutritional needs of the Greeks and not just. So we tell you that the majority of these areas, one and a half million hectares, were discharged for agricultural purposes before 1975. These people, the ancestors of today's holders, or those from whom the present owners bought the land, in the 1920s, in the '30s, in the '40s, in the '50s, or in the legacy, or because they bought them, either by acts of the state and the administration, were found possessing certain land which they legally or paralyzed then to turn them into a cultivated land. Then that was the point. This was done on a final date, forty years ago, until 1975. We had, in fact, passed a law, in 4280, which said in these cases that the holders of these cases should then pay a takeover price, since they did not have strong securities and a financial consideration for the environmental balance, namely, for the change of use. Then you had disagreed. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will need two minutes, Mr President, to explain a serious matter for the Greek farm. You had then disagreed not with the purchase price, but you did not want these farms to continue to hold them farmers at all. You wanted them to become forests again, to come back to the pretext as it seemed in 1945, to know where you started. We come today and tell you about these cases that still use their farms for agricultural use "Come here and see together, leave back to 4280 and your own intentions and take a step forward and give them a solution that will not cost them today, in 2017, which, after this difficult economic crisis that the country is going through, after the tax and other charges that have been accepted, in the last two years, increased, after the fall of consumption in the various products they produce, has become suffocating the environment and their work and struggling to stay in the Greek countryside under adverse conditions". So we come and tell you: “Come and see it together. Come and change N.4280/2014 together. Don't stay with Mr.4280. We need to change him." We propose two regulations, which will not cost those who have moved into a change of use and evacuate the land before 1975. What are we telling you? Firstly, let us come as a state to solve the problem of securities at least once before 1975. There is a similar provision for vegetarians. We could therefore introduce such a provision in cases of this kind. This way, after recognising the titles that have already been paid for them, either because they have been purchased or because they have been inherited and paid a inheritance tax, they certainly have paid several other taxes and HISPIs, they will not have to pay a purchase price that will be around EUR 100-150. As far as money is concerned, we are telling you that for these cases, which have changed from 1945 to 1975, the use of forest land has become agricultural land in order not to pay for money, so that these private areas no longer fall under forestry legislation, so that they do not have to pay for money. In this way, for these cases - we are not talking about trespassers after 1975 - they will not have to buy their land back and they will not have to pay for the change of use that took place eighty years ago. That's what we're asking you to see. Don't fortify behind N.4280. Although you disagreed at the time, because you didn't want it at all, we're telling you "Come on, we're going to change him together."
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u106	Mr. Screka, please. You've been over the eight minutes and the two minutes, of course, you requested.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u107	I shall conclude, Mr President. You said in your speech that before 1975 people have the opportunity to pay money only for the change of use and let them not pay the purchase price. It's 90% of cases. So, what are you telling them? Are you telling the owners of about a million acres to lose their titles of ownership today? Are you telling them or are you telling them to appeal to the civil courts or to forest ownership committees and to go through fifteen, twenty, thirty years of procedure to gain strong titles?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u108	I don't believe that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u109	Explain it because you easily say those words.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u110	But that's a lie. I've done it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u111	Minister, keep your notes and in your speech you will answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u112	It's easy to eject charges, Minister. I say to you: 'Come here and talk.' I'll read from the Minutes what you said. That's exactly what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u113	You're taking me out of my clothes! I invoke your parliamentary representative!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u114	And in this case, you treat them like the ones in Article 4, because they will pay for money before 1975 and the aftermath of 1975. So the trespassers after 1975 are treated the same as those who suffered, built the Greek economy in the 1950s, 1960s and 1970s.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u115	Mr Screka, I badly appreciate the words of your parliamentary representative. It's no longer necessary.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u116	Minister, don't avoid what I'm telling you. Come here to give a solution so that we do not charge the Greek farmer EUR 250 and 300 per acre, which you say he will pay in five years, but I will inform you that it does not make so much for the five years that he will hold it. Greek farmers have not understood that. You won't collect that money anyway, Minister. It's 300 million euros. Come on, let's all work this out together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u117	The reason for this is the special speaker of the Democratic Association, Mr Jellonis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, by following the forest map debate two days ago, several positions have brought me to mind. On the one hand, they discuss the squares on the environment and on the other, they erase the steaks on the ferries to add - it says - organic matter. Ladies and gentlemen, our country - and I asked yesterday, Minister - on what level is it, in relation to the twenty-seven Member States - in terms of our forests? We have thirty-seven million acres of forest. These were left and kept as a forest, why did they expect you to bring in a law that would protect forests and the environment here today? But, as we have heard in your prototype, it is like bringing us a law of panacea to the House, but hiding on the other hand with masturbation envy, I would say, a key element - common to you, we in Parliament - know that this bill is a return to Law 4280/2014 in a bad way or to say better - to use your terms - is a return to a forestry bill, which you so pettyly refuse to admit whether or not and is recognised in any of the previous work on forest maps. That's why, too, you know, you're still causing. So I say to you - and perhaps you understand - that we, as PASOK, acted on the forest maps you are talking about today. In 2011 the PASOK government took the most important step, to speak today of forest maps, not as a delusion or intangible work that you are used to. With Law 3889/2011 in the middle of the crisis - and this shows faith in the priority of the implementation of forest maps - 37 million euros were saved and invested for forest map studies and forest maps were drawn up for 50% of the country's land in twenty two prefectures. They were considered by the forest halls and waited for their ratification. I repeat. Since the establishment of the Greek state, since 2011 they have become forest maps for twenty two counties in 50% of the country. But we also opened the ratification procedure. Today they have been ratified by this process seventy-two maps throughout the country. Did you see any mess of the first one million acres of forest maps that were ratified? This was done in many and difficult areas of the country, in rural areas, next to residential areas, in mixed areas, in forests. In Attica - I told you since yesterday - forest maps were posted in Penteli, Marathon, Kifissia, Drosia, Pyli. Thessaloniki was posted in Basilica, Thermi, your homeland, and Kalamaria. They have also been ratified in Drama, Kosani, Arcadia. PASOK project, whether you want it or not. Then we had two years of silence. Now what are you doing? You have also voted, on the other hand, you are now voting. Yesterday I referred to something. It is badly missing today - I saw him this morning and I expected him to stay to talk about it - the Minister for Rural Development. I would like them to be here, to tell us about the OSCE, how the pastures are identified, what the procedure is. Because the IACC takes the evidence from the Ministry of the Environment and, through the Ministry of Rural Development, it gives it to the OPEKEPE. This is what the state is doing, the Ministry of the Environment is doing. Therefore, the IAC is something that we must take seriously into account for the twenty-two million acres of pasture, which the Greek farmers need, so that they can take European subsidies. But here, now what do I have the impression you're doing? On the one hand, with the desire to cover the 'Vaterlo', which was the case with organic livestock - which is why I did not sign this bill, and, until yesterday, I thought that it would probably disagree, by specialisation, with philosophical sensitivity, no - you come and cut forest maps with the first posting. Previously, the Minister of State at the Nayteborikos conference, which took place in Caravel, announced that he would give eight to nine million acres of new pastures. Where are these coming from? I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Michael Jellonis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Can you tell me where these come from? On the one hand, you declarate the pastures and on the other hand, the Minister comes and he is wearing new pastures. So we can understand, after all, the theater of absurdity, who plays it in this Chamber? That is why I have said from the outset that this bill is also a rough one, but that it has one single target, since it is again a tax bill. But you have used other works, works that have been launched, you simply adopt them and cut ribbons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u119	And now we're continuing with the special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Mr. Shahinides.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr President. It seems that some people have the impression that the matter of forest maps has been completely exhausted, since today, and in the past few days, we have heard various debates even about evaluation, but also about a thousand two others. Since you also want to talk about evaluation, we will also talk about matters which do not concern this draft law. As far as the draft law is concerned, I shall only refer to Article 2 and some amendments. We see here that there is, in fact, a micro-political feasibility from both sides. They talk about evaluation, but no one mentioned the Minister of Economy's statements, who just two days ago said that the measures you bring to vote should have a surplus of 3.5%. The Minister of Economy himself said that because of Brexit damage 1% will be caused directly and an additional 1.5% indirectly. So, 2.5% and 3.5% is 6%. Already 3.5% is considered a number that doesn't come out. So how are you going to cover the 6% deficit? Also, a little seriousness would not hurt the New Democracy. We have already heard from the speaker, Mrs Arabatzis, that the New Democracy will not vote for the measures. The question, Mr Javarra, is not whether you will vote on it, but we ask you to commit yourself from the Step in your dentistry whether you will apply it and not if you will vote on it. Whether or not to vote is easy. The hard thing is if you're gonna do it. Also, yesterday in your location you referred to the National Register of the past few years and systematically avoid expanding by saying 'Let us not expand'. Why don't you expand? Why don't you name names? Why don't you tell me about the money that was eaten in the register? Why don't you say he was Minister Laliotis? Finally, tell the Greek people the truth! I would refer, as I have said, to Rule 2, because I find it very advisable to inform the honourable Members of the following. In order to prove the possession of land, as we have said, Mr Minister, the farmers can produce a sworn statement. It is essentially a gift, because, according to the proposed amendment, the risk of criminals being justified, as we have said repeatedly, public forests, which are not even growers, is more than visible. This is because, according to the amendment provided for in this draft law, with a sworn statement - and here, our Parliamentary spokesman - someone who has the alpha economic comfort if he wants to, can go to the Istanbul Land register - and yesterday I learned that his annex also works here in Greece - to "feel" an official from the Istanbul Land register. And you see that the Land register has not been done by the Turks, but the Greek Fanariots have done so and then, which proves that we have had the know-how since then to become the Land register. So if one with an alpha-economic comfort is 'nearing' to the officials responsible, and also to some lawyers, and they are giving him titles not before 1945 or 1975, but for a long time, what will happen in this case, Minister? And you know very well that this office keeps these titles not to serve the Greeks, but in the future, if necessary, to press on them, to claim others from Greece. So what's gonna happen? This issue is not only about Greece from Thessaly onwards, but the problem that will arise here, Minister, will be very serious with regard to our Thrace. So you should put some limitations on all of this so that the wicked can't take advantage of it. And now I shall refer to Amendment No 1016 and Amendment No 132, which concerns the replacement and supplementing of provisions relating to the mere use of hay. I have received a memorandum here, and it concerns at least thirty thousand families, Minister. In fact, we heard from the SYRIZA rapporteur that he had been hired in October to provide a forestry service. But here you come to do what you yourself denounce. What does that record say that I received? The process of granting a simple use of hayaloo and beaches to catering businesses and hotels is extremely complex and time-consuming, so that we are very unhappy by the professionals. In recent years, the relevant joint ministerial decisions have been adopted during the summer and the contracts are signed with professionals in August or September, that is, we are talking about the period that is already ending in the summer season. What are they forced here by what we're told in the record? They are forced to operate illegally and to accept fines. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A bit of your tolerance, Mr President. Unfortunately, this amendment does not solve this chronic problem. You should take this very seriously, as I mentioned, Mr Minister, because it concerns thirty thousand families and ask for a immediate solution. I shall also make a reference to the last amendment that we have received, which relates to VAT and traffic taxes. I will submit to the Minutes what is the case for traffic charges throughout the European Union. And since you have learned to harmonize yourself, Minister, it would be nice to harmonize what has to be done and correct. [[Mr Ioannis Sahinides presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We see here that there are four regulations in this amendment. We see that, as far as traffic charges are concerned, there is a geometric progress, i.e. for one month, you will charge two months. Do you know what applies to most European Union countries? Even a one-day charge, Minister, and not a two-day charge. Paragraph 3 of this amendment, which is positive, regulates the question of submitting declarations of initiation or changes. It is indeed a good provision, but you could, Minister, provide for and would be a good one, of course, for farmers to pay the sums not just once they receive subsidies, but also when they are paid by producers. Because, as you well know, farmers in the productions they produce are not paid for on specific dates, in fact, there are productions which are also in winter, known greenhouses. So the farmer is not a professional with a fixed income to set him terms and limits on when he should pay this money. We are therefore voting against this draft law in principle. The articles and amendments will be put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u121	The reason for this is the special speaker of the Communist Party, Mr Manolakou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u122	We were very clear and specific: Yes to the solution for the use of agricultural land, to continue living for those who cultivate it and not to the rewarding of majestic crusaders who have traded it by trespassing and getting rich. We were specific and with regard to the legislation how you favor big-fashioned professionals. You didn't answer. You were greatly disturbed in revealing the goal you are serving with this bill. You did not answer, but you wanted to escape, saying that "We are also with the policeman and the policeman", to hide that your notion is not your farm, but your alibi, to facilitate business interests so that they can unlock the obstacles and delays they had on the forest land. And you know, Minister? The JRC was never afraid to say its opinion. Do you know why? Because it doesn't have any dependencies. It has a story of a hundred years, which is full of time, and it is not the communists who have broken up either in the mountains or in the prisons or in the firing squad. This bill will block us. We've chosen a side, and it's the side of the working class and the popular strata. You have made science mocking, baptizing at night. In words to the people. In the works you break him, and you deprive him of what he owns. We ask you the question: why do you put horizontal provisions on declassification and are you not confined exclusively to farmers? Why do you not only give the use, but do you, on the contrary, lay conditions that strengthen the ownership of the property? Because, benefactors today, as yesterday are the pros trespassers and will thank you. By the way, you will know that there has been an appeal from forest associations in the Council of State, and indeed their proposals by their Legal Adviser for settlement have been tabled by their Legal Adviser, as they conflict with the specific articles of the Constitution. We are therefore voting against what articles make big-fashioned professionals celebrating. We are voting on the articles on the nights of forest officials, although we will insist that they be included in 2015. You owe them nights, they confirmed it to me just now from Parnitha Forestry. We agree with the transfer of parcels called "Giannio Salon" to the Municipality of Ioannistes, but also to these crumbs that you give the multitude and ask that third parties be included with income criteria. With regard to the amendments, I believe that no more will come until the vote. Furthermore, although you were committed - and the further privatization and shrinking of PPC in the context of the liberalisation of energy, which of course we are also voting against. That is why they ultimately prefer you and not the New Democracy. Why do you do it dirty, quickly, decisively, and you do it in the past government. But you're right, and you're on the same line. With regard to the concession amendment, you are giving it all. Not only forest ecosystems, but saints, beaches, shores and coastal zones of large lakes and rivers, with quick procedures, rock fast, without auction for the hotel owners and every year you make it three years. And keep going. By means of a joint ministerial decision, without consideration, to bodies intended for research, but without clearly defining who they are. So we're gonna see a NGO with an investigator's shirt plunging state property? Ultimately, for business groups, you work decisively and you pretend to be for the benefit of the bathers and the recreation of the public, which will be wasted and at the same time deprived of what is left. In beaches, lakes, rivers, which will see from a distance, as they will have to pay to enjoy what belongs to them. For the amendment concerning the New Construction Regulation: What do you bring? That business interests are being opened, directly and quickly, by circumventing local and regional self-government, when you yourself have a picture of decentralisation, you are formulating competences in local communities and now ashes and bourbon. You're talking about solvency later. ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ We do not intend to vote on it, and that is what we have done every time such amendments are tabled and have come from the previous ones. Same thing we did then, we're gonna do now. In other words, we are voting against them. We are voting in favour of the last amendment - and I hope it will be the last - and the other two are present.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mrs Manolakou. The special speaker of the Independent Greeks, Mr Lazarides, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Mr President. Once again, the opposition plays the known motto: it raises tons and blames the government. Why does he blame the government? What it has not done for forty years since the Reformation, the opposition has accused the government of not doing so within two years. That is, once again, we are living here the theater of irrationality. In any case, these countries have destroyed it, these two parties which have managed the power of the country over the last forty years since the Migration. What this government is trying to do is to correct what these two parties left and put forward various proposals, including the right one, but most of them in an unacceptable way. And I say: If they know what's right, why didn't they do it for forty years? Indeed, it is a question of wondering. Ladies and gentlemen, various opinions have been heard. I've heard some views about forest laws. I have heard some views about farewells that should not be done. The bill is in the right direction. What he proposes for declassifications, etc. It's not wrong. Errors are being restored which we have said since previous meetings, either from the step of the House - I have tabled it - or from the step of the committees that we have had. I am referring to the mistakes made in the prefectures' decisions, when they were proclaiming resurrected areas. They were pulling a line - I'm tired of saying it - and what was through the line was declared resurrected. Private land, rural areas, what was inside, called them resurrectable and subjected citizens to unnecessary suffering, costs, etc. The bill is in the right direction, ladies and gentlemen. I am in favour of simplification and procedures and legislation. Because through simple procedures and simple laws no one can misinterpret or misinterpret the laws, but neither can there be room for transactions under the table. Through complex laws, etc. it really stays shadows for various transactions. There must also be provision for officials, as for citizens who do not respect the judgments of the courts. This should also be the case for officials who do not respect judicial decisions. I have here specific decisions of the Council of State where after eighty years citizens have been justified. We're talking about declaring land for reafforestation in 1935. I have here the decisions of the Council of State. The citizen was forced to appeal to the Council of State for an official of the decentralised Macedonian administration of Thrace to respect the decision of the Council of State. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, George Lazaridis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Also, I table for the Practical and other decision of the Forest Dispute Settlement Primary again in the prefecture of Thessaloniki. Do you know what he went to do, ladies and gentlemen, an employee? A decision was adopted by the Council of State after eighty years, as I said to you, and the citizen went and asked for declassification, as provided by law. Do you know what the officer asked for? The official has asked for the case to be reintroduced to the committee in order to meet and make a decision on declassification. Is that what it means? Starting for another eighty years to trouble this citizen. I give it to you for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, George Lazaridis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I therefore call for a stricter procedure for officials who do not respect the judgments of the courts. This is about the documents that I submitted for Central Macedonia and Thessaloniki in particular. I was just taken by a fellow citizen from Epirus, who told me that he has been justified, and after thirty years in court, and now he goes to set up a rearing for free-range chickens in his field and doesn't leave him out of the country's Forestry. I mean, we're talking about terrible things. Another thing now that I would like to say is the presumption of public ownership. Because it gives backing to some and afflicting individuals, it's something we'll have to look at again. Of course, it starts from a long time ago, from the Greek State's succession to the Turkish State, which took the land from there, so it is something we should see again. I wanted to say a few other things about the legislation that governs what we say the presumption of ownership and to make a reference to the law of 7 Ramadan, the Ottoman law on lands, but I do not have time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u125	Mr. Lazarides, you can't make it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u126	I'm closing, Mr. President. We're positive about the bill and we're going to vote on it. In other words, we shall vote positively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u127	The reason for this is the special speaker from Potami Mr Amyras, who concludes the course of the interventions of the rapporteurs and special speakers and then will be followed by the Minister, Mr Stathakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u128	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, you would say that the debate here in plenary was more about the rights - to say so - of farmers and farmers in the woods than to protect the forest itself. I think it would do us good - all three hundred - for a walk in the forest of Flora, for example, outside Olympia. There, on a plateau of 42,000 acres, we would walk under five million oaks that reach twenty - five meters. I think it would change our perspective of how we should deal with this draft law. I said this at the previous meeting, but also at the committees, that we will vote against this draft law, precisely because in a rough and hasty way, I would say, it exposes the Greek forests to danger, but also to farmers and farmers who will benefit from this draft law. First of all, the issue of political position is philosophical. Should we reward those who have trampled, burned or demolished public forests by allowing them to acquire these land, the public forest, and to cultivate or exploit them in their own way? That is the fundamental question. Should we reward the trespassers? Should we reward those who burned the forests? We say no. Of course, I do not incorporate in this category the reafforestations, the cases arising after the great refugee needs and crises of the country that faced the 1920s, for example, or after World War II and the Civil War. Another thing is that we close our eyes to trespassers, who until eight years ago, until 2007, were burning, trespassing, deporting public forests. For what other reason is it, I would say, dangerous to the regulations of the draft law for farmers I mentioned and the farmers? Because it is exposed to the risk of the recovery of subsidies. The divestment of millions of hectares of public forest land may constitute unfair State aid to agricultural and livestock enterprises, which is prohibited by European law. So here I come to present to you in the Minutes, since of course I am telling you the essence of it, a communication from the European Commission twenty years ago about such cases, that is, violations of forest land, and after they have been dismantled, or, as you want to say, exploitation, or I do not know how from private individuals. It therefore came out on 10 July 1997 a communication which appeared in the Official Journal of the European Communities and tells us how the sale of public land should take place. It says, for example, sales of land, land and buildings by public authorities, where a land on European terminology is agricultural land and grassland, it puts two categories: by tender, without a tender. And I'm coming straight to the desert. In the sale without a tender, there must be an independent valuer who determines the market value of at least the public land that is going for sale. These are not regulations, rules and guidelines in the rain. On the basis of these European Commission regulations, other countries have been led to the European Court of Justice, because they have violated these directives, the way they should be sold out, to divest the public land. I would remind you that we have two cases of recovery, despite the fact that we have had assurances for years that there would be no such problem, namely a refund to the European Union of the money that farmers took using land, land belonging to the public sector and which had not been correctly transferred. I am referring, for example, to the retrievals of the Hatzigakis case, as well as to the recoveries, State aids in the gold case in Skouria, Pachta was then Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, it creeps me out that, with a jury, anyone can claim and prove their property in public forests. We are voting against this draft law and I hope that we will move away at some point as a society and a political system from the reasonable hundred unloved doses. We're not talking about laundry, we're not talking about cars, we're talking about public forests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u129	We will now give the floor to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Georgios Stathakis, and the positions, as we have said, will be followed by the parliamentary representatives and Mr Famelos will be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u130	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate that is taking place today on such a crucial development issue for forest maps coincides with an important, hubic point also the agreement reached in the last Eurogroup in Malta, which seems to have raised very serious concerns about the whole of counterpopulation and which have been very critical of it as a whole, underlining the negative effects of this agreement. Let me remind you that the second assessment is a completely central point for many and obvious reasons. Since 2015, the country has implemented a programme that is forward-looking, i.e. all the measures and adjustments requested by the country to make on the basis of this 2015 programme concern the first evaluation and, secondly, the second assessment. In practice, the entire programme 2015-2018 is covered by the first two evaluations, the first and the second. In fact, we are now seeing that in the middle of the programme, this is the completion of the second assessment, the whole of the budgetary, reformist and other measures that have been covered by these two evaluations, and then the programme will remain procedural in the sense of completing these specific decisions. The second element of the original agreement - I would remind you of that - was that Greece has renounced the direct repayment of 50 billion, which was committed to paying the years 2015-2019 on the basis of the previous agreements, the second programme. These were converted into a 30-year loan and at the same time the present Government, in the context of the implementation of this Agreement, 2015-2018, opened up the capital of short-, medium- and long-term debt measures. I would remind you that the short-term and part of the debate now taking place also concerns the medium-term debt measures that these two sections together create, a complete security for the service of public debt by 2032. July is the last 'big' dose that the country has to pay by 2022. From July to 2022, that is, the country's next lending obligations will be covered by the surpluses of the budget. I would stress all this because this centrally important second assessment has many difficulties in negotiating, no doubt. I would remind you that it was the IMF's participation in the programme which raised a number of issues. Among the other measures taken before 2018. No measures were taken before 2018 for the current programme. I would stress this for those who called us because we did not close the negotiations quickly. It was whether there would be a connection to the medium-term debt measures or not. The most important of all, whether we have a debate on measures or also take countermeasures. I imagine that the opposition group would like to put only measures and not countermeasures on which I will stand and then. Therefore, negotiating with many other complex problems, in fact, took a form in which our strategy, I repeat, included all these elements which then formed a more balanced solution than we were ready to discuss and find a reasonable solution. This has disappointed too many who have invested in not closing the evaluation. Let me remind you of some of them. First, those who were aspiring to bring back to the table the country's exit scenarios from the euro, as we had prevented in 2015. Second category, those who persistently consider the solution to the problems of the Greek economy and society today are the elections and the fall of the SYRIZA - ANEL government. I think that the attack has escalated from all sides in order to consider the second assessment to be the key point for such a political scenario. Thirdly, important interest groups that were looking forward to altering the 2015-2018 programme, as agreed, and entering the agenda topics that are not in the agreed context. I think that with this agreement, which has been achieved and which, I would remind you, is a political agreement on central issues, this cycle of all effort has closed the second evaluation to be a headline for political developments. This circle is closed. The cycle of those who considered that the second assessment could be shaped with a different framework for the country and its stability was closed. It also closed the cycle of those who considered that with the second evaluation they would be able to bring a set of things that were and are out of programme. It's a difficult deal, of course. It concerns the period 2019-2020. I do not want to avoid any of the difficult issues that the agreement has. The first issue is the question of pensions. I would remind you here that there is a country's commitment to reducing pension expenditure by 1% of GDP. I would also remind you of the numbers to get a sense of measure. The pension expenditure is now 28 billion, and there is provision for a reduction of 1.8 billion on pensions, generally the highest, depending on the technical solutions to be taken. There are countermeasures. One and a strong countermeasure, I will mention a great deal later, is one of the most important costs of pensioners, expenditure on medicines. I would remind you that in these cuts we have chosen the escalating reduction in the participation of pensioners in medicines. In particular, zero participation of low pensioners, who receive EUR 700, a 50% reduction of those receiving EUR 1,200, and a 25% reduction of those receiving up to EUR 1,500 a month. These measures, together with important changes, which we are making at the NSR and elsewhere, will be able to create a point of relief at least for this impact, which the previous dimension will have. The second big issue is, of course, the reduction of duty-free, which is also a negative measure, which we understand all its consequences, but against which the countermeasures have two strong pillars and let me stand against them. One strong pillar concerns families. It is the package of measures, which have been included in the countermeasures. It is extremely extensive and has significant implications. Firstly, an extension of family allowances. Secondly, full coverage of nursery care, which for working families is extremely important. Thirdly, extending the housing allowance to vulnerable families. Fourthly, an extension of school meals to cover 50% of the school population. One pillar I repeat is him. The second pillar, as important, is to alleviate the lower income layers affected. Reduction of the HPAI for the lowest strata, reduction of the rate of income tax for natural persons from 22% to 20% and abolition of the solidarity levy for incomes of up to EUR 20,000 and a 2% reduction in incomes of up to EUR 30,000. It is a long way from what I have just read, from an illusion of charity to two negative measures. They are important areas, strong cores to deal with important problems, which our social state and our social policy, always bearing in mind that the balance of measures and countermeasures will be zero, given that the country's budget performance at this time prejudges the achievement of the objectives to which we have been financially set. I had to stress - and I stress this - that at the heart of this agreement is the sensitive issue of employment. The reintroduction of collective bargaining with the completion of the programme in 2018 is a major step towards reintroducing the country to the European social acquis, as well as a variety of measures, which are included in the countermeasures, such as covering wage costs up to 50% in the private sector for new recruitments of scientists and other categories of workers and a number of additional measures that will enhance this effort. I would remind you that there was an important agreement on the whole of the work, which protects the world of work from a number of issues, which were on the agenda and which are ultimately not part of the agreement. With the closure of the political agreement, we are putting on a page. Completion of the second assessment now clears the way for a visible, seamless field within which the country can normally return to a development orbit. Our task is to bring together all the forces, which are many today, and we hope will grow in the future, which within the European Union want and to maintain the country in the hard core and to facilitate the Greek economy to find itself in an orbit of strong economic growth and social justice, recognizing the great cost paid by the Greek society over these seven years. I will stand by for a minute - if you will allow me - the law that we are called upon to vote on today.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u131	We allow you, but I think the President will allow us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u132	Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u133	I can do this for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u134	We'll let you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u135	Thank you. I would remind you that what we are voting on today has gone through three waves of reactions. The first wave of reactions said: "Start it, it will create a huge chaos in the country. Nor a debate'. We've gotten over this wave. Mr Famelos became the receiver of dozens of council decisions, regional municipalities, cries, etc., "it is impossible, these things are not done". The second wave was where the forest maps were posted. There has also been a local climate that it is not manageable, that things are extremely difficult - all I have heard today from the opposition - to have carpets, what can be imagined of this 'abominable' legislation. The third wave is the debate we are having today calmly, recognizing all the wings of this House: firstly, the need to move forward. Secondly, the need to tackle one of the specific problems of farmers, farmers and so on, without opening the door to the fears - which were correctly raised - of arbitrary and tens of other issues and therefore to find the most balanced solutions. Thirdly and fundamentally, the issue of money is also an issue that the legislator is dealing with, in a way that is much softer than in the past, than in the previous law, with very large discounts and reasonably at a level that is compatible with the data at this time as they are. Under these conditions and under these conditions - very difficult - since we have exceeded all three stages, we must reach the very simple and obvious conclusion: we must move forward. It's a big cut for the country. It will have a positive impact, because it will be the basis for all the other urban plans that we have on land registers and beaches, for encouraging and developing the urban planning of the country - a set of urban legislation which is already in existence or which will be completed in the next few months - and finally, for ten years, for which the current government is determined to close down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We are starting the circle of interventions by parliamentary representatives. Mr. Xydakis, don't give the floor to you at once. As the Minister presided over, we should give the floor to Mr Javarra, the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u137	Of course, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u138	Then you will speak, Mr. Xydakis and Mr. Theocharopoulos. Here, Mr. Javarra, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u139	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, Mr Stathakis, there is indeed one issue in the first place. Is it countermeasures or countermeasures? Tone is very important and I will explain it to you in very simple terms. Until first and foremost from the Prime Minister's lips when he spoke from here at the Step, we were told in the House that for a euro of adverse measures there would be a euro that would have been a fruitful measure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u140	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u141	Wait. Don't be in a hurry. And not only that, but this announcement has been supplemented by the fact that there will be no measure that will ultimately be unfavourable to the citizen. After the Maltese Summit, indeed in our ears, the words of the ministers still speak. Let me start for reasons of precariousness by the Minister of Labour. Ladies first. So she told us that these measures which the Prime Minister described here in this House as'measures of zero sum', that is, one minus one - as they said in Algebra - equal to zero, were transformed - and I say to this side, which I have heard some arguments before - into 'zero impact measures'. Really, is the zero financial sum the same as the zero impact? This is a matter. That is why, because tone every time should strike at the right syllable, I want you to tell me whether it is countermeasures or countermeasures. I'm gonna take this thing a little further. You have heard - I think you have participated - what we have heard at the conference - may have been two-days - the Budget Department of the State of Parliament was organised in the Senate. There, therefore, from the lips of scientists entrusted to them by the state and not from the lips of warring politicians, we have been informed that this delay in signing this agreement, which has not yet come to an end - we have an agreement in principle, but not an agreement on evaluation, will take some time from what it seems - it has cost at least EUR 2 billion in Greece. And the question is: What do you put them? Measuring or countermeasures? So there is one issue. I believe that all the ministers are obliged to the House and, above all, to the authority of the State you represent, when you are using the word to be present, whether by celebrating wins or lamenting defeats - so far, of course, it is true that we have not seen this from any of you, it is okay that the Greek people will judge it when the time comes - not to slip through words constantly and freely alternating over things to hide. I am therefore restrained by these announcements that, in fact, with a broken heart, the Minister of Finance appeared and said: "There was a compromise. Every compromise has its positives and its negatives. It is certain that the negotiating team will not be upset, but the Greek people will be saddled by the measures." So this is where the question arises: Is someone who takes - on behalf of the state - sadly or pleasantly measures? So there is still a radical contradiction here. However, the worst thing I can say, without really wishing to blame you on the slightest reproach, is this dimension that has appeared in the so-called Eurogroup leader, who has spoken about the issues relating to debt regulation and said that, as far as the measures for regulation or restructuring are concerned - as you say - debt, it is an issue that will be raised following a political agreement, which is not yet in existence. However, - here is the dimension - Mr Tsakalots has appeared in the same position to say that the Government will not implement any measures if no measures have been taken to restructure the debt. So here, there's still a lie, there's still an attempt to mislead. So it is a good thing at some point to tell the truth. To tell the truth, however, as a wise man said, and to stop our words being fake, we must first of all stop our lives being false. That is why, in order to truly speak, we must be given the historic opportunity to relive. And that is certain to say, it can only be done after an upgrade of the political system to the popular verdict. From there, then, we will be heading for another life, for which you seem to have not been judged to be worthy so far. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Of course, I like the way you laugh. He's interesting, but he's not important.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u142	Mr. Javarra, don't answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u143	You want elections.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u144	We're not having a dialogue now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u145	No, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u146	Mr. Javarra, keep thinking, but finish. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u147	I shall conclude, Mr President. And now we are going to another issue, which you are insisting on repeating, not only you, but too many others, with their own Prime Minister. Do you really think that in Greece today that we are talking about - and not only today, but also from the previous government - there are no collective negotiations? You say, therefore, - and you said before - that in the way you have negotiated, an agreement came about. We still do not know her, but I will confine myself to what I have heard from the relevant minister's mouth. First of all, the lockout didn't pass. But the lockout doesn't want it, and the employers' representatives do not want it. So, does it make any sense?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u148	It's proliferation, and I don't know it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u149	That's where we're going. So the only question that really exists in Greece today is that we have collective negotiations to draw up national collective agreements, we have for the first time negotiations at company level, but we do have two...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u150	Two principles.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u151	I'll talk to you about that. You know it. But don't interrupt me. I'll finish. However, there is no expansion of sectoral contracts. What does that mean? Does it mean that collective bargaining is forbidden? So, the issue of expansion, in accordance with the legislation in force, was a product of collective bargaining? So, was it a product that had to do with the manifestation of collective autonomy, as guaranteed by the Constitution? I'll just tell you a historical lead. In the French trade union movement, which passed through very large and heroic pages until it arrived in May 1968, there, when the French state was actually destroyed, negotiations began between trade unions, government and employers. These are known as the 'Grenel agreements'. The greatest conquest, in the view of the French trade union movement, which emerged from these perpetual agreements, was the recognition of the right to trade unions to negotiate at company level. Unfortunately, we consider this to be negative. Do you know why? Gramsey said that when he called some syndicate trade unions, "people bankers".
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u152	Mr. Javarra, you're talking ten to eleven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u153	You're limiting me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u154	Oh, it's my fault now? So long as you're asking for a dialogue with the MPs, with the ministers, it's my fault that I'm interrupting you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u155	Do you want to talk about the Rules of Procedure? You gave the Minister the right previously to speak on a point which is irrelevant from the agenda. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u156	Why are you attacking the Bureau? I have interrupted to ask you - this is the request of the Bureau - to be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u157	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u158	You guys now, if you have the fly and you smell, it's your problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u159	I don't have a fly, I don't smell. Thank you so much!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u160	We've already reached eleven minutes. You were entitled six minutes, under the Rules of Procedure, to your dentistry. If you took your tritology too, you'd be nine minutes old. But now we're at eleven minutes! So don't ask for an explanation from the Bureau. Please be very brief to complete the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u161	No, I'm not asking for explanations. I am simply asking myself, and I am addressing this House, whether and for how long the previous Minister has had the right to speak on a matter which is irrelevant to this bill. That is why I am sorry and very respectfully going to follow your suggestion, ending from now on. If you do not decide to go ahead with the major structural reforms, if you do not get rid of yourself, which often becomes a consulate of problems for the place - and I mean what we have heard from Mr Skourletis before, denounce for standing competitions in privatisation, the privatization of PPC and a number of other things - if you do not decide to release this country from the chronic diseases - and in this we all have - to know that there will be another situation. And I think she is capable and mature to give the people what they need. And now let's go see the bill thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u162	Now are you going to the bill, Mr. Javarra? Please, Mr. Javarra!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u163	Do I have the right to talk about the bill?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u164	But now you're asking something that doesn't even need to be answered. For the last ten minutes - to remove the two minutes that were on vacation - you are discussing everything else!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u165	Will you allow me to speak about the bill?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u166	What've you been doing all this time?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u167	I answer the Minister all this time because I have a right. I am a parliamentary representative and on the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the House, I have the right to reply to the Minister on matters he raises!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u168	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u169	For here, in this Chamber, gentlemen, the democratic process is done on the basis of the relationship of speech and vice versa! In some maybe Vultures, which you might fantasize about, there might be a monologue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u170	Now you've ruined it! Don't give up on that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u171	Here, then, it is liberal and parliamentary democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u172	Mr. Javarra, you would have said what you wanted to say about the bill. Please. Keep going, Mr. Javarra.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u173	There are three issues. The first issue, therefore, of the bill is whether or not it is an event at the legislative level of the hierarchies made by the constitutional legislator in Article 24(1), lastly. There, therefore, the Constitution makes a hierarchy of the protection of the natural environment and the protection of the national economy. There too, therefore, it states: It is forbidden to change the destination of the forest unless such a change is imposed on grounds relating to the national economy and, in particular, to the strengthening of agricultural production. Therefore, these provisions, which, as we said yesterday, were introduced by Laws 4280/2014 and 4315/2014, come for the sake of the true meaning of the Constitution, of this constitutional provision, to say that it is possible - under the conditions which you do not need to repeat - to change the destination of the forest for reasons relating to the agricultural economy and the agricultural holding. In that sense, Minister, Mr Famele, there is one point here. And I would like to put this in your mind, because, unfortunately, it seems that we are not closing the chapter of these regulations today. There will be issues which, unfortunately, will remain unregulated and the act will impose the re-employment of the House with them. Here, then, is a matter. For those cases where we have public forests, the acquisition is indeed good. You are right to do - and that is why I can tell you that your courage is exemplary - and introduce the abolition of the presumption of public ownership in the forests. It's a story very painful. A colleague previously referred to a Turkish law. There is also a Greek, dated 17 November 1836, from which it actually appears that there is no presumption of public ownership in the forests. In public forests, therefore, there may be a redemption issue. In the private areas, however, and not just those which you are right to recognise by inverting the burden of proof - why are you saying that if the public does not bear a title proving its ownership, then it is considered private - why should any burden on the beneficiary be borne? We have to add something here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u174	And that's what we're going to do, Mr. Javarra.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u175	I have two more.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u176	No, no, please. I'll interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u177	Until you interrupt me, let me talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u178	I'm really going to interrupt you. And I mean, the microphone will close and nothing will be recorded, Mr. Javarra.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u179	If you do that and you will prove that you are a very big democrat.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u180	Mr Javarra, excuse me very much, but how much patience does the Bureau have to do?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u181	Will you let me finish, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u182	You spoke more than the Minister, from every minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u183	I'm entitled to that, and I'll tell you why.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u184	Yes, of course. You want to talk more? How long?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u185	Two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u186	Two minutes since we've been talking. In two minutes I'm interrupting and finishing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u187	Don't be too detailed, I said two minutes. Be careful now, Minister, because it matters. Indeed, the abolition of this presumption creates an discharge, a relief. However, with what right will we go to rightholders who have been created by land distribution in the context of the restoration of landowners, to people who under forest law have received concessions, have they, in fact, received temporary titles that have not yet been completed, and are we going to ask them to pay for further money? There's an issue here. However, the biggest issue, Mr President, is this: we impose on those who after 11-6-1975 are beneficiaries of a double penalty. The first penalty has to do - as has been said - with compensation for the loss of natural property and the second has to do with the compensatory fee required to finance the afforestation. But here, we are talking about a fundamental violation of the principle of 'ne bis in idem'. We cannot, for the same thing, impose a double penalty because, at the same time, once we have reforestation, we are sure that the loss of the natural good is being made. So I think that this provision is wrong as well, but also the previous one. Why don't you take me to the fact that the New Democracy had done it like this. At this point in time I am speaking, I see that you really should legislate at this point. And a third matter. The third issue is about the concession of the sanctuary.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u188	Mr. Javarra, the two minutes you asked for, you got over it. How much longer do you want to talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u189	All right, I'm done. Do you care about the concession of the cavalry?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u190	Not to listen to your opinion, though. I have my own opinion on this matter, as on any matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u191	So listen to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u192	It's not about me listening to you. I didn't come here to listen to you. I have come to conduct a debate and in this direction I have been elected by this House. You guys write to the oldest shoes my tips all this time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u193	It's over, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u194	I don't accept this insult!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u195	You insult the Bureau!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u196	I don't insult it at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u197	You insult it! In repeated holidays and requests to complete the time given to you, you have used even more and reached twenty minutes. You were entitled to the tritology nine minutes. So you were tolerating the Bureau and tolerating it from this House and coming out from above.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u198	I am not using these words in the first place. However, I will say this to you: if Mr Stathakis had confined himself to speaking on the bill, I can assure you that my word would not be more than six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u199	You spoke more than I did.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u200	Talk about the third issue, which you want, to be completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u201	So the fact that he spoke about your assessment is and it is unfair that you are doing this against me. You have deprived me of the right, firstly, to speak of the bill for which I am a parliamentary representative and, secondly, to expelled me and encouraged me to consume the time I had to talk about this bill, in reply to the Minister, to whom you were unequal to me more lenient than to me. Thank you very much and congratulations on your impartiality.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u202	Mr Javarra, I would like to inform you that you are inadmissible with the Bureau. I'm returning all this back to you. And for this House to be informed, because it can't last any time, twelve and a half minutes you spoke in your prototype, twenty minutes to twenty-two - but let me remove two minutes for your holidays - for your denology. If you consider this to be a parliamentary procedure and respect for the Rules of Procedure, let us draw the conclusions to the Chamber. We continue with the next parliamentary representative, Mr Xydakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u203	Thank you, Mr President. Because my colleague Mr Javarras is a delightful orator and a interlocutor, I would be happy to give him a part of my speech yesterday, in which I have only spent six minutes and fifty-seven seconds. However, once again, Mr Javaras and his advocacy for the Turin factories and the teachings of the great thinker Antonio Gramsi, but above all because Mr Javaras has repeatedly called on the Left Government to dare major reforms in this Chamber. And I think it is honest and I think it recognises that we are doing this and we have successes. We therefore accept this challenge and the invitation, and we are moving towards major reforms, such that we have not been able to achieve this historic responsibility in the past many decades, from inertia, from incapacity or even treacherousness. However, we should point out that these calls by Mr Javarra for major reforms have little to do with the usual unspeakable style of other colleagues in the major or minor opposition, who, in the face of the visions of political survival and through the multiple transformations that exist themselves, use expressions and reasonings that do not honor either political life or the space here or the liberal democracy, which we all defend. PASOK argued before it had voted maps. Yes, maps voted. The question is who was posted. The Minister here has assured us, and all the evidence shows, that 1% of the total forest maps were posted. In other words, we have a continuing legalization, incomplete or even complete, which does not apply. The New Democracy colleagues said, first of all, that Article 24 was legislated by the New Democracy. It's not exactly like that. The 1975 Constitution was supported by many in Parliament, many spoke. Many, too many, constitutionalists supported the preparation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u204	Memorandum is the opposition of Mr. Dimitrios Tsatsos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u205	Article 24 for the uniform protection of the natural and the anthropogenic environment was neither theoretically nor politically affected during the entire post-polluting process. And the constitutions are generally not the works of a party, they are the works of a parliament and a legal and political culture. Article 24 invoked it by many to environmental organisations, ecological organisations, self-government schemes, citizens' movements. A whole movement and a whole culture for the protection of the environment and the anthropogenic environment, based on the constitutional check, has been created. In any case, what we can say as a whole is that in the years before bankruptcy and bad historical adventure, the successive governments of both the New Democracy, in particular, and also PASOK, who once dared a few things, have led to a policy that was not a policy of placement and planning for long-term sustainable development. It was an opportunityal policy, a customer policy, which leads to a situation in 2017 with Greece in comitology and suffocating, not having a Forest, now trying to build, not having a Land register, not having an integrated spatial planning for tourism and productive actions. However, all planning in Transmigration is such. Deindustrialisation, incapacitation of the primary sector and no long-term strategy, a national vision of where Greece is part of the ever-changing division of labour and production. We are a country which is crazed or nonexistent by sectors of productive fabric and a state which served only civilian staff and in many cases produced political money. If, therefore, the Left is being invoked for a few reforms, I think we should withdraw the major reconversions from the end of the 19th century and see that the left-wing tradition is at the moment adapting to the hard environment as shaped in the European Union and in the neoliberal cheques, how the country will stand, how will come out of the committee, how will they open corridors for a policy of sustainable development and development with justice. And at the same time we must remember, when you talk to us about planning, that the ancestors of the conservative line are just Diligiannis and Bulgarian and not Trikoupis. We are moving on in all areas, but if we want to see the greatest picture in this Chamber and in the presence of the Greek people, let us be more humble and let us be conscious of what historical moments we are going through and show historical responsibility. The cries about "go", "go away" and "go elections" show neither political thought nor political maturity, but desperation and dependency on power partners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u206	Thank you, Mr. Xydakis. Parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Incorporation, Mr Theocharopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u207	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I had prepared a few things to say at the end of my dentistry and I will say something about the bill, but after the Minister's speech on matters that we actually put on yesterday's day, there had to be answers, I think there should be a dialogue, because they concern not only this bill, but all the bills and the way the country is moving today. First of all, you said about a political agreement. I do not know if you have come to an end to the political agreement, Minister. From what we hear from most of the people in your government, the institutions will come or the troika. You're just renamed them, but nothing changes, apart from the fact that you're negotiating in the Hilton instead of coming to the Ministry. Recently, in Brussels you also changed the trading venue. Why am I saying this? Because we no longer know what to believe from what you say to your government. You described three groups of protesters who have been dissatisfied over the entire period - I have listened carefully - in relation to the agreement. The first team, you said, was the one that brought back the euro-exit scenarios. I should first like to point out that both your speech and the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman yesterday were not in the same style as Mr Spirtzi, who was here yesterday in Parliament. It was in a completely different style, direction and manner. Triumph, Mr. Spirtz said, since we're getting something about the debt. From crying to triumph! You have spoken of a compromise, of difficulties, of problems, of negative arrangements that we are trying to reduce and so on. However, for the first group, for the one that brought back scenarios from the euro, if I am not mistaken, there had been a great debate at the time and the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative had said that it is one of the scenarios that our country should see in the next period. I mean, I'm not wrong with your words, Mr. Xydakis, I know exactly what you have said, but you have referred to your own members in the first group. Let's see in the second group, those seeking elections. But in the last few days you have been disproved every day by SYRIZA officials who have referred to the issue of elections, that this may also be a solution. And in the second group, then, rather your inner-party audience should go beyond the other audiences of counterpopulation. Shall we go to the third team? Those who blame for interest groups, you are probably referring to Mr. Skourletis who said: "They make you sell well by the end of July. There are interests dealers. The business will be sold as long as it is sold. It's idealism and dogmatism. Is it possible to sell 40% for so many millions of euros?" Shall I continue with his statements at SCAI? I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point the Member, Mr Athanasios Theocharopoulos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] That is exactly what I mentioned earlier, for the interest groups, you have not answered as PPC government. And I told you yesterday to give concrete answers. Do you think you solved this inner-party SYRIZA procedure? Did you agree with each other about exactly what this is about and the Greek people should not know whether or not these specific accusations are correct? And I told you yesterday that I'm not talking about the judiciary that's doing its job, I'm talking politically right now. You said again about the agreement for 2019 and 2020. You are aiming, in other words, at committing any next government to a pension reduction - you have mentioned in particular, Mr President-in-Office - a tax reduction. The OECD report has come out today. I imagine you know her for 2016. It is said that we are the first country in 2016, between thirty-five countries, which increased taxation to more than any other country from the other thirty-four countries studied. In fact, the average in the European Union was that this tax burden was reduced. In 2016, then, in the year of your governance, we have according to the OECD - you are mentioning, your Government, selectively in the last few times, in the OECD - an increase in income tax, tax-free reduction and an increase in insurance contributions that caused this increase above the European average. And while we have this information, you have agreed to a 5,900 and 5,600 euro tax reduction, when Mr Chakalotos said he will resign if he falls below EUR 9,000, and of course he will vote against. If that is a consequence of speeches and actions, then what can I say, you may be worth congratulating. Of course, according to the study, the largest mortgages are families with two children. At the same time, I heard you say about the countermeasures. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative wondered whether they were called countermeasures or countermeasures. I heard Mr Tsakalotos calling them 'positive measures' the day before yesterday. You probably haven't decided to name your government. It's a simple matter. You haven't decided what you'll call them, how they'll sell better. Besides, the election program of Thessaloniki was not implemented, it was a mockery at the end. So is the parallel program. Just the same is the logic you have. Of course, the turbulence of the New Democracy, which appeared from the previous debate, is due to the fact that you are stealing the policies of the New Democracy. You are actually applying right-wing policies now on all these issues. As much as we hear from the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman against neoliberalism, these are precisely the policies of neoliberalism. I do not think there is any doubt about this when we reduce duty free to such amounts and when we have this data for 2016 or when pensions are reduced. So this is a policy that is completely ineffective and because Mr Spirtz has wondered whether this policy costs the Greek people at the cost of counter-population, this policy primarily costs the Greek people. Because lies and mocking have short feet. They can't go on. The Greek people understand them and certainly the common place of all your policies continues to be the inconsistency of words and actions. What do we remember on this matter? You're trying to smoke everything. You went to the Beloganni Museum. He tried to hat the Communist Party of Greece at that time, Mr. Tsipras. At the same time as he went to Fidel Castro's funeral, he runs along with Mr. Kammens who supports Trump in the United States. This is where science raises hands up. In fact, you have now come to the point of opening a 'OLYMPIA WHITE' tunnel and giving the name 'ANDREAS PAPANDREOU'. You're unbelievable! And he said, in fact, that "we do it because we respect and have been inspired by Andreas Papandreou". Is there really a limit to this situation? You, who have a course and a route in this space, don't you think that at some point a limit should be placed on this hating process, that of all spaces? The Greek people have now understood these issues, condemned them, understood foolishness and, of course, you cannot continue in this way. In all your policies, therefore, - I mentioned in my prototype and the issue of forest land and the subject of this bill today - on all the issues, unfortunately, what you are doing is to do exactly the opposite of what you had promised in an election. You are doing the same in your amendments today to the forestry areas and to the issues relating to the launching of projects. Because it is a political inappropriate thing that the Minister responsible has done today in connection with the opening. While you were supporters of the “I’m not paying” movement, you reached the point, basically, to want to get all the lights of publicity on you, for a project, most of which has been made by previous governments, with the problems that existed. There's no doubt about it. In any case, however, mockery cannot be tolerated by the Greek people. They cannot be tolerated by Greek society, nor can the tactics or experiments against Greek society, on the backs of Greeks and Greeks, which go through a very difficult situation. We need seriousness - and I told you yesterday - not triumphs, but seriousness, in order to deal with this crisis. You have reached the point - and I conclude with that, Mr President, I will not abuse the time - to refer to work as well. You mentioned the reintroduction of collective bargaining and basically referred to what the 2011 Act provided for, if I understood well from your speech, namely that they will come back at the end of this process. So we have no real understanding of your policies on where you are going. You have reached the point where you are talking about countermeasures, which will be applied if we achieve a primary surplus of 3.5% in the additional amount. In other words, we have to get to 5.3% to give these countermeasures, when Mr Tsipras himself has said that 3.5% for the period currently provided for in the agreement is an impossible percentage. It cannot be achieved. So, at the impossible rate you are currently selling to the Greek people the countermeasures and selling this process. And with what policy? You described it a moment ago in your speech. With absolute recycling of poverty. Instead of planning what we can do right now in our country a modern policy for modern social policy services in the fields of education, health and other sectors, such as transport and public security, and creating healthy competition in the private sector, all you do, all you know to do is look for sharing benefits to the poorer ones - a small part of course. This is called a recycling of poverty and cannot be tolerated by Greek society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u208	Mr Dannelis, the Potami Parliamentary Representative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u209	For two minutes, Mr. President. Thank you. I have no intention of repeating what I mentioned from Step two hours ago. But I would like to make a comment on the extralarge time management in here, because I think we are confusing the quality of dialogue and the promotion of democracy with an irresponsible chatter. Let me remind you that in the European Parliament, the usual time of intervention by Members is one minute, the rapporteurs of the reports are up to six minutes and the Heads of Political Groups are up to fifteen minutes. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister to see us again and accept a cross-party amendment, which we have tabled, concerning the suspension of forced measures against the Holy Archdiocese of Crete by the Municipality of Heraklion. These are necessary recovery measures and measures of commitment of the ABM of the Holy Archdiocese of Crete. It is a case that has to do with the obligation to contribute to the money of the Archdiocese of Crete in relation to certain household lands that are part of the town plan... Minister, I'm talking to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u210	Mr. Javarra, don't worry about my colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u211	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u212	Mr. Javarras, after his twenty-two minutes, is also concerned with the Minister now. This is our relationship with the operation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u213	Mr Javarra, Mr Dannelis is talking about a cross-party amendment signed by the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u214	Come on, Mr. Dannelly.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u215	Mr Minister, I was saying, in the amendment we are asking for you to accept, we are not asking for any further than the suspension of the necessary measures until the condemnation of the objection made by the Holy Archdiocese of Crete has been finalised, because this week in particular, with the inadmissibility of using the ABM of the Holy Archdiocese cannot do its humanitarian and social work on the Great Week, today, so that it must stop assembled, social structures and so on. We do not ask for any limitation or general treatment outside the legal framework of the Holy Archdiocese of Crete. It's cross-party, please see her again, because time is the one that counts in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u216	Good. And with Mr Dannelly's intervention, the circle of interventions by the parliamentary representatives has been completed. Before giving the floor to Mr Famellos to close the debate, Mr Stathakis asked for the floor. Two minutes will you speak, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u217	Yes, Mr. President. First of all, I think that Mr Javarras wrongly accused me of speaking out of the matter, because the rapporteurs - and Mr Skrekas - started with the agreement. All the rapporteurs were put into it first and then, I imagine, entered this bill - because of the important nature of this agreement. So, in fact, a minister had to answer and I think that's why I spent so many minutes. I fully accept all your philosophical remarks and you know what an appreciation I have. I am open to all the suggestions you make. I'm open to legal interpretations too. I found, however, that I had no substantial comment on the economic and data of the agreement, as in detail and in detail - and I am referring to Mr Theocharopoulos - I have presented them. I have presented the data as they have, nor have I celebrated nor cried. I didn't do any of this. These are analyses that you're doing. I think that my position was clear and I am very good at the spirit of the government. I have put the data, the way we have reached a specific agreement that has both negative and positive. If you like this terminology, I have no problem, it's Euclid's, and it's perfectly accurate. However, I think that you will allow me to maintain my insistence that I have not had any substantial remarks from the standpoint of counter-population.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u218	Mr Socrates Famelos, Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, has the floor. Mr Famelle, you have the floor for closing the debate on the bill so that we can proceed after the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u219	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I think there has been a constructive debate. I have heard all Members' seats. There were some outbursts, which I think are not responding to the climate of the debate. I believe that the rapporteurs and to some extent the parliamentary representatives have not been so helpful. But what I want to see included in the closure from my side is that the next day is in front of the Greek administration, the Greek state and the Greek Parliament. A joint effort is needed to carry out such an important project, which seems, despite the initial resistance, opposition and reactions, now has received support from the entire political world of the democratic arch and, of course, from all the scientific institutions - either academicly or collectively - in the country. So there is a need to have a joint effort, and I would like to clarify, because this is what has been asked of me by the Special Rapporteur of the Communist Party of Greece, the following: The bill is exclusively geared to the agricultural world. This declaration has been requested. I consider it unnecessary, because in all the provisions it seems expressly to me that interventions are only allowed for agricultural use, and obviously because there is a constitutional provision, but after being asked, I have no reason to deny it, because I want to tell you that the rural world is waiting for these rules. That's why we've been late enough and you're asking what's going to happen with the forest maps for many years, of course. But we had promised that before Easter we would complete the legacy, so that everyone knew what environment the forest maps were being created, opposed and formed. And there will be a sufficient time after all the arrangements have been published in the CVT. I believe that many Members, of all the parties, have heard a number of problems in the application of forest maps and several proposals for solutions, which have been incorporated into our proposal. I also think, and we have to say, that this effort will continue with a joint interministerial project team operating at the Ministry of the Environment. We must all contribute to a strong information action, namely informing the world, in all our public interventions, that forest maps are an essential element of the democratic functioning and fair functioning of our state and we must move forward in their implementation. I would like to respond quickly to some of the issues that have been raised. First theme is this jurors' testimonies. They are necessary to clarify the owner - not the owner - of land extinguished before 1975 - they do not relate to the period after 1975 - and they need to be used for a demarcated, specific area, because this must be in the application, together with other evidence proving that the land in question has been held. Secondly, there will be no question of irreparable court judgments being lifted. We have the necessary attention here, because we have been pointed out by a colleague. Of course, we must say that we are implementing these reafforestation decisions. The text included the exception on verbal terms of non-forestry land, but had never been identified in polygons. Our decisions are specified. Thirdly, although it has opened up an unnecessary debate on what facilities are planned to support farms in the outdated areas, I would ask colleagues to read those which are expressly provided for in the draft law concerning drilling - if I am not mistaken - the tanks, the columns and the watch of PPC, as well as the roofs. Next issue: there has also been a discussion which I understand as a starting point. Does this bill open the appetite for the trespassers? Absolutely not, ladies and gentlemen. Of course, he also has the political courage to find solutions. I would like to say to those colleagues who are probably fortified behind the constitutional forecasts or the ecological dimension of the environment and forest, that at the same time with these values, they also need to resolve the problem of agricultural production. It is our country where it is, where the previous governments took it, where some have participated and some have not. However, it must be resolved for all geographical regions, including islands, the issue of subsidies and agricultural production. If one chooses a limited, unilateral reading of the Constitution, without ignoring the existing legal reality of our country, and does not resolve the issue of agricultural production, then it underestimates the provision of the same article on environmental protection, which puts environmental equivalents for agricultural operation, which also arises from the environmental data of the rural ecosystem, which are related and similar, even in terms of greenhouse emissions. We can't ignore this. They're realities. I admit - and all of the government and SYRIZA - that there have been violations of legality and environmental rules in the forty, fifty, seventy and seventy years. We are not responsible for them, but we need to resolve the matter of forest maps today. If we hide behind the violations and start 'ome!', there will be no forest maps in Greece or we will have an insult to agricultural production. We need to resolve a at the same time a major problem that has been created and intensified in post-policy, but it today requires a solution from the political world. We therefore have the courage to resolve this on the basis of constitutional provisions. I expect those who object to proposing at least the solutions, because there is no provision in any way for a trespasser, someone who exploited the forest, someone who wants to make modern or mixed tourist accommodations, as L.4280 and L.4315, to legalise and allow the extraction of forest land. If there is another proposal from the Members of the parties in the democratic arch who say they will not vote for the bill, we expect it and the rural class to be awaited, because we are talking with all the social classes and social strata. However, I think we have no problem saying to the Members of the New Democracy too - because they asked us to say so - that it is not the case with a takeover or concession fee for the citizen who holds the titles, because it was a dangerous one - I would call it a debate - that the people with the titles should pay a concession fee. So I tell you very clearly and fully in the bill. Also, the property and citizens' rights are not changed in this bill, which will be in a little bit of law, but the current situation is reflected and settled in our country, and all functions are also systemed. It is obvious that not all the problems of the country are solved by this law. The issue of forested fields and the constitutional resolution of afforestation cannot be resolved by this law nor did we say it would be resolved. But the citizens' right to forest maps is not changed in the wooded fields. The limitation that exists is another framework, if you want. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that I was just in the meeting of the Management Board of the CEDEFOP. Today we have come to the joint meeting, and we had asked for it from 20 February. We have also announced to the municipalities several of the issues that interest them, such as the extension of five months, because that is actually the case. From the first statement of objections, if I am not mistaken, on 23 January, in Elijah and in Messiah, we will end on 20 June to close the timetables. So citizens and those of your interest, please consult the support points for the new schedules. We agreed with the municipalities to create an information and support scheme for citizens in remote communities, where information at local level is needed, particularly for people who do not have access to computers or the necessary grammar knowledge. We are, for our part, managing the services, whether with the RDPs of the regions or with what is stated in paragraph of the current law on their staffing with contractors. There will be a ministerial decision tomorrow on the duty of the OTAs to submit objections, even though it is not the major problem-solving tool, but the issues of reforestation and evacuation and the issues of earlier mistakes. I've mentioned everything for a long time. Tomorrow they will also be ready at ministerial level. There will be an extension of the housing density until the last day of the questions. In order to cover the rights of citizens and the protection of settlements, the OTAs also agreed on this issue, which must be resolved by a urban and environmental tool from this government and this House very soon, because this is indeed the case in S.H.E. Also, there will be a mission of the boundaries of the settlements. There is an extensive debate about the end of a change of use. I would suggest to my fellow Members that the designations and tons of tuna and, in particular, the lies which have been heard, mainly from the New Democracy, which, although it has had the opportunity to legislate for many years, has not done so. It has not neutralized the use-change fee for farmers. We do not ignore the need for farmers. Others have done so for many years, since the laws, such as Law 4280 and Law 4315, have not even been implemented in one case. Not even one citizen has benefited from the possibility you have given to switching use at high cost, which we recognize, because we take it to 1/3. So we have not seen any will on your part. You don't have any evidence. You obviously have the opportunity to plunder now in a lie auction, saying that we give it all for free. But we do not have the same logic as you. We will not follow you in such a populism auction, because we have the opportunity to say that we now have institutional tools to solve many major problems in the agricultural sector, even though it was hard, heavy and bureaucratic, the tool you had. We had no solution to the subsidies, which were at stake with your institutional framework, as well as with the absence of forest maps. They were threatened, and now he's starting to get a class in this field. We think we should thank you for allowing us to resolve such an important issue and to make it clear to society. In public forest land there was no possibility for anyone to have only the concession of use, but he also had to pay the objective value. This law may alternatively have the ability and ownership of concessions and use, not its own. His's still his. Private land remains private and is not questioned, because one of the Vice-Population MPs said - and I do not want the world to hear this and misinformation - that for the private land one must pay and a concession fee. If that's possible! These were in your old legislation. Now they don't. On the private land, before 1975, the end was 180 euros, the single acre and now the end will be 75 euros in a hundred instalments, i.e. a 58% reduction. On the private land, which was evacuated from 1975 to 2007, the fee was 800 euros a single acre. Now it will be 135 euros in 100 instalments, i.e. 83% reduction in costs for the farmer. In public land it was obliged to receive ownership and use of EUR 500 with four half-yearly instalments, and now it will be EUR 270 in a hundred instalments, i.e. 46% of the cost. Of course, for public land after 1975, the use was EUR 300, and now it will be EUR 120, i.e. a reduction in the cost of 60%. These are our choices. You have had the option for many years to choose and legislate your own. You have legislated high costs and inappropriate tools. Now it has enabled us to choose how the problems that you have created will be solved. We give the farm priority. That is why tomorrow we will prepare the ministerial decisions, so that farmers know how to solve the problems from now on. In conclusion, I think we need to make it clear, Mr President, that SYRIZA had no objection to strengthening rural use, along with the use of forest land, to legislation 4280 and 4315, as you have again falsely tried to present them. Our opposition was to the complex tourist accommodation you wanted to plant in the forests, the commercial exploitation that you wanted to put into the forests, the swimming pools and the villas of the “menu”, which you used to let happen in the forests. All Greeks know, where we are going, that Greece has affected us with the policies that have been implemented. All this has to change. Let me refer to the immortalities of the speaker of the Democratic Incorporation, which I do not have the opportunity to answer, because I am not overtaken by the impossibility of colleagues who do not just read today's bill, but also do not read the laws that they have adopted in the past over the past period. 1% of the maps have been posted forty years. The conclusion of the public administration auditors, on this particular post, some who are proud to say that it took the country seventy - four years at the pace you legislated and implemented. In fact, there was a proud statement, because maps were posted, saying, in Penteli, Kalamata and Laconia, when I tabled a table yesterday that no opposition committees were set up on this radar, the post you have taken and you were proud of. Please, can we come to resolve a serious issue that you have actually raised in recent years? Is it possible for you to be inclined and self-sufficient for posting maps that had no opposition committees? For Christ's sake! The seriousness must also be restored to the Greek Parliament. In the case of maps that you requested in your yesterday's post, Mr Georgantas confirmed today that the citizen was not informed? Is that why you're happy? What can I say? Anyway. Finally, with regard to the issue raised by Mr Javarras, I would like to say that we have really taken into account the provision of the constitutional legislature, that there are reasons for national economics and aid for agricultural production, and that is why this tool is being strengthened for the use of public land in agricultural production. Too much is regulated by this framework. I would like to make it clear that there are still issues outside forest maps, which we need to resolve with forestry legislation, such as temporary titles, outstanding ownership of beneficiaries of helmets, and issues such as wooded fields and other tools that we need to create. We do not, however, create double regulation on the same subject. It was a mistake what Mr. Javarras said, who is not here now. It is another price for the loss of a section of natural capital and another for the restoration by afforestation of the use modification. Of course, although it is not the same, I should refer my colleagues to Nos 4280 and No4315 who have created, voted and supported, if you like, the legal documentation. We know that from now on there is an important tool, with your vote, of course, which will support agricultural production, despite the problems that have arisen over time with a distorted, if you like, policy that was implemented in the countryside. It will regulate and create a legal environment and a level playing field from now on - it is a fact - without insulting the natural capital and the environmental stock of our country, but with the possibility of starting, at last, rationally environmental and sustainable policies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u220	Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u221	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u222	No, Mr. Screka, it's not predictable. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u223	Staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u224	What's the staff? No mention has been made of your name. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u225	I didn't mention your name.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u226	He referred to my words in a way that distorts them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u227	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles, amendments and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy is adjourned: 'Amendments to forestry legislation and other provisions'. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u228	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u229	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u230	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u231	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u232	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u233	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u234	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u235	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u236	The draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy, therefore: ‘Amendments to the provisions of forestry legislation and other provisions’, was accepted in principle by a majority. We are going to vote on articles and amendments and they will be voted on separately. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u237	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u238	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u239	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u240	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u241	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u242	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u243	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u244	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u245	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u246	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u247	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u248	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u249	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u250	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u251	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u252	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u253	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u254	Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Can Article 3, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u255	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u256	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u257	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u258	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u259	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u260	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u261	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u262	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u263	Article 3 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 4, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u264	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u265	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u266	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u267	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u268	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u269	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u270	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u271	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u272	Article 4 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u273	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u274	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u275	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u276	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u277	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u278	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u279	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u280	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u281	Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u282	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u283	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u284	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u285	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u286	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u287	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u288	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u289	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u290	Article 6 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 7 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u291	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u292	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u293	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u294	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u295	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u296	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u297	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u298	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u299	Article 7 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 8 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u300	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u301	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u302	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u303	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u304	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u305	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u306	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u307	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u308	Article 8 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, unanimously. Will Rule 9 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u309	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u310	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u311	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u312	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u313	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u314	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u315	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u316	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u317	Article 9 has therefore been accepted as unanimously. Will Rule 10 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u318	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u319	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u320	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u321	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u322	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u323	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u324	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u325	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u326	Article 10 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 11 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u327	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u328	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u329	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u330	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u331	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u332	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u333	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u334	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u335	Article 11 was therefore accepted as being majority. Is the amendment acceptable under a general number of 1006 and a special number of 122?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u336	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u337	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u338	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u339	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u340	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u341	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u342	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u343	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u344	Therefore, the amendment under a general number of 1006 and a special 122 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 1007 and a special number 123 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u345	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u346	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u347	Yeah. Mr President, I wanted to point out that we were not already in place, but we agree that the project of the Centre for Sport, Memorandum and Culture should be carried out unnecessarily, as requested by our question from March, with 4403.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u348	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u349	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u350	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u351	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u352	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u353	The amendment, by a general number 1007 and a special 123, was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment by a general number of 1015 and a special number of 131 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u354	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u355	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u356	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u357	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u358	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u359	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u360	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u361	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u362	Therefore, the amendment under general number 1015 and a special 131 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number of 1016 and a special number of 132 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u363	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u364	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u365	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u366	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u367	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u368	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u369	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u370	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u371	Therefore, the amendment under general number 1016 and a special 132 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 1017 and a special number 133 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u372	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u373	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u374	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u375	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u376	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u377	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u378	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u379	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u380	Therefore, Amendment No 1017, and Amendment No 133, was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We shall now proceed to the vote of the President-in-Office. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u381	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u382	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u383	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u384	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u385	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u386	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u387	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u388	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u389	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: ‘Amendments to the provisions of forestry legislation and other provisions’ were accepted in principle and under Articles. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u390	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u391	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u392	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u393	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u394	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u395	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u396	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u397	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u398	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: ‘Amendments to the provisions of forestry legislation and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle of Articles and the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u399	I would ask the House to empower the Bureau for its ratification of the Minutes in its entirety.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u400	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-11-S1-commons.u401	With the consent of the House at 18.55 the meeting for tomorrow, a large Wednesday, April 12, 2017, at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: discussion and decision, in accordance with Articles 68(2) of the Constitution and 144 et seq. of Parliament's Rules of Procedure: (a) on the proposal submitted by the President of the Radical Left Parliamentary Group, Alexis Tsipras, and the Members of his Party and the President of the Group of Independent Greeks, Mr Panagiotis (Panos) Kammenos and the MPs of his party, to set up an Examination Committee for the investigation of scandals in the health field in 1997-2014, and (b) on the proposal submitted by the Chief of Staff of the Hellenic Republic and President of the Parliamentary Group, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis and Members of his Party, to set up a Committee of Inquiry into the management and expenditure of public health from 1996 until today, in accordance with the special agenda.
