ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before entering the agenda, which is specific and despite the tragic moment, I would like to raise an issue. First of all, the House unanimously expresses its condolences to the death of the four young children in the accident. There's also a fifth child who's rejoicing. They were children from seventeen to twenty years old. I'd like to make a suggestion. I think the time has come, through the tragedy of the moment, for the Special Standing Standing Committee on Road Safety, which exists from the outset to see the issue, both in terms of prevention and in terms of repressive measures. And it is a happy time that the Minister of Education is here, with whom I spoke just before we come in. With a proposal from the Special Standing Committee on Road Safety and, of course, with the agreement of the Minister responsible, I believe that all parties will accept it - let us discuss and decide on the mandatoryity of the Road Safety Course, if not from primary school, from high school. I know it seems a little awkward, because I say these things when four new children were killed last night, but we have a duty - I think - to do that. I'm not putting it to discussion. I shall now give the floor to the Minister for two, three minutes, and then we shall keep a minute's silence as a support for the families of the children who have been lost, the latter because they have already been given more. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Obviously, this is a tragic moment for the families and friends of these children. Already there are in schools, primary and first grades of high school, such lessons in the context of the Flexible Zone and other activities. We were ready to make a public position after cooperation, but one accident took place, and we did not want it to be assumed that we did so on the occasion of the accident and we are trying to capitalise on this kind of thing. What we can certainly say is that we have been preparing for a very systematic education for children on the subject of education. And I know that in society there are experts and people who have given a lot of their everyday life to these things and we're going to have a joint meeting at the Ministry. We simply did not want to do this on the occasion of these tragic events. Thank you for the opportunity, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u3	Understood. We're closing it here. I think all Parliament's wings will help. From what I have seen, there are representatives from all the parties in the special standing committee and I think they are one of the issues that can unite us all. If you want, let's keep a minute of silence in the memory of the children who have been lost. [[In this respect, I should like to draw your attention to the fact that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks ……]] Their memory is eternity! I should like to start by recognizing the procedural procedures, and if there is any objection, any colleague who wants to take the floor will say his objection.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION Discussion and decision on the proposal submitted by the President of the Radical Left Parliamentary Group, Alexis Tsipras, and the Members of his party and the President of the Greek Parliamentary Group of Independents Mr Panagiotis Kammenos and Members of his party, for a preliminary examination under Article 86(3) of the Constitution, Articles 153 et seq. of Parliament's Rules of Procedure and Article 5 of Law 3126/2003 on criminal liability of the Ministers, as amended by Article 2 of Law 3961/2011, concerning the investigation of what is set out in the above proposal to the Parliament of the Greeks, to which reference is made in No 2. ABM S.A. 2015/158, ABM S.A. 2014/42, ABM S.A. 2014/105, ABM S.A. 2016/118, ABM S.A. 2013/125, ABM S.A. 2013/255 related to the criminal proceedings transferred to Parliament concerning the former Minister of National Defence Mr. Ioannis Papantoniou, concerning the possible execution of the offences of infidelity against the State (Article 256 B.C. in conjunction with Article 263a B.C. and Law 1608/1950) and the money laundering of criminal activity (according to Law 2331/1995, as applicable) in the performance of its duties, as part of the conclusion of contracts of armaments of the Ministry of National Defence and in accordance with the proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with paragraph 3 of Rule 86 of the Constitution and Rule 155 of the Rules of Procedure, the Plenary Assembly shall decide by secret ballot on the setting up or not of a special parliamentary committee for a preliminary examination. The decision shall be taken by an absolute majority of the total number of Members. Today's debate will take place in accordance with Rule 155 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, as amended by a decision of the House of Parliament of 19 May 2011 and by analogy with Rule 137(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, namely the procedure for the generalised question. With regard to other procedural procedures, according to a decision of the Conference of Presidents, the debate will begin with a first cycle of nine speakers, one of each Parliamentary Group and one Independent MEP, with speaking time for each ten minutes without a secondary right. First of all, the Member of Parliament's Group of the Radical Left and secondly, the MEP of the Group of Independent Greeks, who have tabled the proposal, will take the floor. We will then enter the speakers' speeches on the single list in accordance with Rule 65(5) of the Rules of Procedure, which will be composed of two circles of speakers in proportion to the parliamentary power of the party they represent. Each cycle will consist of fourteen MPs, five SYRIZA MPs, three New Democracy MPs and one of the other parliamentary groups. The parliamentary groups have already submitted statements of speakers and a single list has been drawn up by the Office by alternate speakers in proportion to the parliamentary power of the parties. The speakers and speakers in the single catalogue will be given the floor for five minutes without a second-right. The speaking time of the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups will be the one set out in Rule 97(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure, namely, the length of speaking by the Prime Minister and the Chief of Staff Response will be up to twenty minutes and the Presidents of the remaining six Parliamentary Groups up to fifteen minutes. The ministers will speak for ten minutes of the hour and will take the floor whenever they wish, in accordance with the Constitution and the Rules of Parliament. Parliamentary representatives will be speaking for twelve minutes. Since, however, the President of their parliamentary group has spoken before him, they will speak half a year, that is, six minutes. The former Minister of National Defence, Mr. Ioannis Papantoniou, has sent a memorandum entitled "Note ahead of Parliament's meeting on Tuesday 28 March on the setting-up of a special parliamentary committee", which will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and distributed by the services to colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u6	I would like to inform the House that fellow Members or members of the government, who are on a mission from Parliament and the government abroad, will vote by letter, in accordance with Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure of the House. In this case, before the vote, their votes will be handed over to the Bureau in sealed files. This file will be enclosed in a larger file - also closed - which will state the name of the Member or the member of the government who will vote by letter. The dossier will be accompanied by a transfer document addressed to the President of Parliament. The lists will be delivered by accredited colleagues from the Members of Parliament or members of the Government who are to vote, on the basis of Rule 70A of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. At the end of the debate, a secret ballot as provided for in Rules 73 and 155(8) of the Rules of Procedure will be followed. Finally, I propose that the debate be closed around 20.00 p.m. We've calculated the times. I say about 20 a.m., because if all the Members of Parliament speak, the limit I tell you to get away by about an hour. Then there will be a secret vote on the proposal. So that's the proposal. And before I ask you whether you accept it or not, it can take the floor for anyone who has any comment on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u7	I would like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u8	Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u9	I would like to raise two points, Mr President. The first issue relates to the parliamentary representation of the groups whose President or President will not be present. I would like you to tell us whether they will have their rights under the Rules of Procedure, because you have only mentioned the case where the President is coming and will precede it. I ask what is going to happen in the second case? One point concerning Rule 154 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, which you have also mentioned, is that Article 154(3) states - the wording and the Rules of Procedure are problematic in relation to Parliament's competence - that the proposal to prosecute must clearly specify the acts or omissions which, under the law on the responsibility of the Ministers, are criminal and to mention the provisions. Except in the case of the first Convention and the compensatory benefits, where the provisions are mentioned, they shall not be mentioned in any other case. And beyond that, there are no unjust acts of the proposal. In other words, ladies and gentlemen, it is described that contracts have been entered into, and below, the words 'is therefore apparent' are going to enter into the matter. I would like to ask you, Mr President, if the Conference of Presidents considered the proposal, not its content. And I remind you that we have said from the start that we are positive and will vote. Others to see them, who did not vote for committees of inquiry for the summer of 2015. We'll vote. However, the Conference of Presidents, of which you are a member, has assessed the wording under Rule 154 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure? Because there's a problem. What are we talking about here? What are the actions? Firstly, the transactions are not defined and secondly, there is no description. I am not saying that there is a flaw in the non-reference of legal provisions on infidelity. I am referring to the fact that the incidents that lead there are not described. What's that proposal? Who wrote this proposal? Mr President, we need some explanations. It must give these explanations to the Bureau or take responsibility from the signatories, tell us what we are talking about here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u10	As far as your first point is concerned, it is self-evident - you know, I did not have to give you an answer - that if the party's Chief of Parliament speaks before the Parliamentary Representative, the time goes halfway through. If he doesn't speak before or come at all, the twelve minutes are valid. As I said to you, because time is mainly for colleagues five minutes, there will be a small tolerance if someone wants to say something more substantial.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u11	I've asked if there's gonna be any dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u12	There are no secondments for anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u13	When the President of the Party does not come.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u14	There's no one. Whether he comes or does not come, the Rules of Procedure do not make such an exception.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u15	There has been this precedent: When the leader of a party does not come, because this is his choice - as far as we are concerned, there will also be an announcement on it in the day - then the other Chiefs are perhaps mentioned in this party and the parliamentary representative has not been given the floor to object to the reports, because it has been said by your colleague - not by you - that you have no right. You have to resolve this today, because then there is a problem of a violation - of an intimate violation - of the Rules of Procedure of the House. The Parliamentary Representative represents the President of the Party. They're familiar with this. You must regulate that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u16	Mr. Loverdo, the special meeting and the Chiefs have a right to secondary. Nobody has a secondary right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u17	Mr President, on this...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u18	Yeah, no one has. The Rules are clear. What you are saying is a matter of substance. I would like to tell you that I understand that, but before we vote on the amendments to the Rules of Procedure, we can put it in a few days' time. Under the existing Rules of Procedure, no one has the right to secondary. Nobody!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u19	Mr President, I would mention a similar incident when we voted on a government amendment to involve Members or their relatives in offshore and so on. At that time, there was a question of a party leader being placed on issues relating to us and not being given the floor. I say, therefore, that in the interpretation of the current Rules of Procedure and not on the basis of a future change in the Rules of Procedure, we can have the possibility of answering any leader who talks about us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u20	Good. I cannot at this moment give you a categorical answer, although, as I have said, I really understand what you are saying. I shall speak with the President of Parliament because what you say, Mr Loverdo, has been done, but it has been done by way of derogation from the Rules of Procedure. It didn't happen in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Now, on the substance of your second remark, I would like to say that the Conference of Presidents has no right to enter the substance and investigate the substance, apart from the fact that there was a representative of you and the issue you have put - I am not a legal person to judge whether or not it is correct, I suppose you have looked into it - it has not been raised. However, because, if I remember correctly, one of those who drafted this proposal is Mr Paradoxopoulos, who is present and wants to give you an answer himself, I will give him the floor for five minutes to answer the substance of the second observation you have made. Here, Mr. Paraskevi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. The honourable Member's point concerns the clarity of the wording of the Members' proposal as regards the acts to be investigated by the special parliamentary committee to be set up. What I would like to say is that the proposal, which has, of course, been distributed to all Members, on pages 3 to 7, describes in detail the actions for which the special parliamentary committee is being called for - at least unfaithful - and describes both the type of behaviour - the conclusion of contracts, etc. - as much as the damage caused, which is, moreover, always according to the law and the core of the crime of infidelity. As far as money laundering is concerned, which is also an investigative act in accordance with the proposal of Members of Parliament, the basic act on which the proposal for investigation is based is once again the infidelity, which has already been described. As far as the carrying out of laundering operations is concerned, reference is made to our proposal for similar acts relating either to submission or to non-submission, or to finding money in accounts. The description is therefore thoroughly in line with the Members' proposal. Perhaps the debate will give the possibility of more analysis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u22	Mr President, may I say something about a procedure? It's a legal matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u23	Here, you have the floor for two minutes and you, Mr. Athanasios.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u24	Mr President, first of all I would like to say that the New Democracy, as it is well known, wants the Constitution to be reviewed and the privileges for the ministers to be abolished. We don't talk about that. As far as this is concerned, however, because I am trying to link it to the second category, which is subsidiary and is consistent with the case law of the Court of Cassation, the infidelity here has been reduced to an amortisation deadline. Why am I saying that? The special parliamentary committee will consider it. Listen, not only the sessions, but also periods have passed. As for the subsidiary offence, which is money laundering, it is subsidiary - there must be a main active offence - and it is not, above all, the duty of the Minister. Therefore, there is no relevance, as stated in the proposal, because in addition, the pensioner sees the proposal as being banned and says that there may be only relevance to the infidelity of the subsidiary offence. However, the relevance, Minister, Mr. Paradoxopoulos, has been eliminated by the limitation, in accordance with the basic provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Secondly, the subsidiary offence wants an act that the Minister has gained from. And that's just bribery, which is not mentioned. But if it is to be, it does not belong to the duty of the Minister. This is therefore only a procedure for communication.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u25	Mr. Athanasios, you are entering the essence of the debate. That's not my job. It's understandable what you said, but it's the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u26	It's not a point, Mr. President. It's a case.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u27	I read to you the first line of paragraph 3 of Article 155: "The debate is limited solely to deciding whether to establish a special preliminary..." etc. He doesn't say we're actually coming in. The substance will be examined by the courts, whether it has been filed or not. We will not consider that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u28	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u29	Mr Loverdos has the floor and we are closing the proceedings.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u30	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'll only have you for a minute. I listened very carefully to Mr. Paradise. But I do not understand - and I would be beg too much, if he would be kind enough to say a few words again - this...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u31	He'll be the first speaker. He'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u32	I do not understand, Mr President, in such a critical process, for which all the parties have expressed their agreement, how the plenary and the Conference of Presidents - I insist - is enough - to move forward in the debate, when the Leopard Conventions are referred to, for any other weapon system, but at the end of the reference to the title of the Convention and to its content, the words 'there is therefore no indication', without the slightest indication being mentioned. How is there a link between the description of the contract and the determination of the existence of indications? To be mechanics, but also a little more careful, ladies and gentlemen of the majority!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u33	Okay. Observations have been tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u34	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u35	Mr. Papadopoulos, okay. Let us not now censorship the colleagues. So, from what I understand, I do not say unanimously, because Mr Lovers has his reservations - the proposal for a procedure is being adopted. So we move forward and start with the first speaker that Mr Nikolaos Paradopoulos is from SYRIZA. Mr. Paraskevi, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. I would like your tolerance for over two, three minutes in order to give answers to procedural questions as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u37	Okay. Let's go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u38	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the impression that today, in discussing a proposal for a special parliamentary committee, examinations are not only given by the honourable Members or by the government, but also by Parliament and the political world as a whole. This is because for the economic crisis, which is plagued by us, the Greek people have sought causes both inside and outside. The term ‘other than’ is termed as an enthusiasm. It is a policy of austerity, which is distinguished by social analgesia and is also a dead-end development. The 'inside' is about energy, the execution or the tolerance of corruption scandals, which have been recorded in our country in recent years and have contributed to the creation of our deficits. There are people who condemn a party. There are also citizens who condemn the entire political world. The second is the most dangerous, because in any case if the whole political world is being condemned and discredited, we are dealing with a attitude which is undemocratic and authoritarian. The problems of democracy and politics are only solved with more democracy and better policy. That is what I think we should try to help today. The SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, in its proposal, fulfils a promise made by the Prime Minister himself, Alexis Tsipras, for an effort to combat corruption, for a simultaneous resolution of the economy and politics. That was a brief introduction of me. I shall now proceed to both of the same brief explanations and, in fact, to the negative. First negative clarification: No, we are not going to talk during this procedure - at least we - to the former Minister of the Papantoniou as being guilty. At this stage there is the presumption of innocence. We will refer to the person of the former Minister as a suspect and suspicions can only be converted into guilt records after judgment and conviction. Secondly, no, we will not judge, despite the great problem that has arisen, the institution, the Constitution itself, for the elimination of the grievance of basic crime, i.e. infidelity. Of course, it is problematic that the Constitution is in place and it requires revision. There's no doubt about that. I think everyone agrees. The point, however, is that there was also a significant responsibility for the implementation of this provision, which led to the elimination of deplorableness. The bi-partyism in Greece has given an idea that the two parties have supported each other in order to eliminate the pointlessness and not to be able to ultimately seek responsibilities for basic crimes that have haunted corruption in our country. So I come to our main point. In the House, six bulk pleadings have arrived with reference from the appropriate prosecutors. The proceedings related to supplies of arms and also to compensatory benefits. In these cases and in the proposal by the Members of Parliament, there is a detailed statement not only of the total amount of commissions and contracts, but also of the damage caused by the misappropriation of those contracts. This loss, which is mentioned in the six pleadings, amounts to a sum of EUR 100 million. It must be noted, of course, that there is no point in the arguments for concrete bribery or for any other reason with which the benefit of a particular person has arisen, by means of tangible evidence. However, our case-law has repeatedly accepted that the crime of infidelity - despite the fact that in its objective and subjective substance it is not of interest to provoke property benefits, but to cause damage to the interests of a private or public authority in accordance with Article 256 of the Criminal Code - with the challenge of damage is sufficient as a basic crime to try and find dirty money next. The record of the damage refers first of all to Article 256 of the Criminal Code concerning the infidelity of the service. Of course, the criminality of that infidelity seems to have been definitively eliminated on the basis of the provision of Article 86(3) of the Constitution. However, despite the expiry of the amortisation deadline and the limitation of basic crime, there is room - case law accepts it - for infidelity to be able to compose dirty money laundering crime, in so far as an asset is then legitimised. Criminal law on credibility as a legislature does not concern basic crime to be open as a criminal offence. He's just interested in having finished. In any case, I think that there is clear evidence of this on the basis of the arguments which have come to us. Of course, whether it has been omitted or not and a possible act of dirty money laundering depends on the answer to two questions. One is whether it is open, if it is active, to prosecute for dirty money or whether it has been banned. We have to clarify something here, which is a well-established principle, a provision of criminal law. The time of limitation begins since crime ends. The filthy money laundering crime, which we will investigate, can begin with an act of infidelity, but ends with the deed of washing, which, if we investigate the law, is even a lasting crime. Since the acts for which we have identified signs have been completed much later than the acts of infidelity, and some even today, it is not possible to raise a matter of time for crimes of infidelity. Of course, the term is a crime that has been committed in the performance of the Minister's duties. This cannot be said to be something that arises without doubt. Perhaps the opposite is more likely, but we also think that the committee itself should look into it and document it. If it emerges from the investigation that we are dealing with acts which have not been done in the course of ministerial duties, then justice itself must now take a decision. We have all received the memorandum from Ioannis Papantoniou, which raises objections to his being subject to the pre-examination procedure. What we read and read in person in Mr Papantoniou's memorandum is that there has been a check and no evidence of a criminal offence. I must say that the proceedings that have arrived here include details of the harmful nature of the contracts which have been signed and in particular of their compensatory benefits. Moreover, in the same memorandum the investigator complains that there does not seem to be any participation of his own. Apart from reading the documents immediately enables us to understand that the name of the former Minister refers to injurious procurement or drawings, etc., what is simple to explain is that, if justice had not found out, it would not have found any evidence of responsibility for this former Minister, it would not have sent the six procedural documents to the Minister and hence to the House. He sent them right here because he found evidence of criminal offences and evidence of the responsibility of a political person, namely Minister Papantoniou. And he sent them here so that the House could examine them carefully. I want to remind you of something at this point. Among the signs of rinsing is the proposal of the MPs and the fact that the minister's relative refers to a list of depositors. I would like to remind you that data relating to lists so far could not be exploited. During the term of office of the current Government, we had Law No.4356 which for the first time provided for the possibility of using and illegally acquired evidence - such as a list of depositors - to the extent that specific constitutional conditions are met. L.4356 expressly states in his explanatory statement that if the two values conflict - on the one hand, the value of judicial protection and on the other, the value of the purity of evidence - if the evidence does not allow justice to be dealt with and ruled out, the problem must be resolved on the basis of constitutional weightings, with recourse to the principle of proportionality, with respect for dignity. This is precisely the finding of n.4356, where with a constitutionally impeccable adjustment, weighting and analog, it is now possible to consider such a list. In this context, I would like to tell you that to deal with the economic crisis in our country...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u39	Please, finish this, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u40	I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. So to deal with the economic crisis in our country, even people who are in difficulties have been called upon to contribute with taxes and sacrifices. At the same time, however, corruption phenomena, which have contributed to deficits and social hardships, appear to have been without an investigation. However, what was the responsibility of corruption producers so much is the responsibility of those who fail to control it. That is why we are doing everything we can, within the rule of law and parliamentary procedures, for justice and for a healthy economy. That is why we are proposing this special parliamentary committee, which will shed light on this fact. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u41	Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos has the floor from the Independent Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr President. I am not a legal person, but I think that not only me, but every Greek citizen has the right to have an opinion on what has happened in this field for a number of years. I want to quote some facts. The first is that I welcome positively the proposal to set up a special parliamentary committee signed by all the Members of the SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks, signing all parties except one. That's what it looks like. I also want to make a reminder about what exactly this famous Article 86 has done that is provocative and has angered - I believe - Greek citizens fairly. Every time justice came to a politician, something was done and this crime was being filed. Infidelity, for example, may have been omitted. There is no record of money laundering. First of all, I would like to make it clear that the presumption of innocence is the case for every Greek citizen, and so the former Minister of National Defence. I'm not talking about it. The word'revancism' and the words'revancist mood' must not exist in this Chamber because it offers the worst in the Parliamentary Republic. In any case, I myself declare that I do not have any reganism for anyone, and I am one of those who has publicly confessed that there are politicians in all the parties who are doing their job properly. However, I would like to freshen up our memory and say: I would like to remind you that the area of the General Secretariat for Equipment - and I am not calling it here - has one convicted secretary, another convicted and two defendants, if that is what he says. Also, with the investigation carried out by the Prosecutors of Corruption, Gabriel Mallis and Ioannis Stavropoulos, they discovered some things a while ago, long ago, when they investigated the case of Aki Tsohatzopoulos. They were found in the accounts of a friend - I would say, the best man - of the defendant minister, two transfers of EUR 500,000 that no one could justify. Also on the Lagard list, 1,300,000 were found on the account of the defendant's wife. When, in fact, the defendant was asked, he said it was his wife’s ex-husband, which proved to be untrue. What do I mean? I mean that it may seem infidel on the one hand, but on the other hand, it can be combined - I say again that I am not a legal person - and to see what conclusions we can draw. I still want to make a little reminder. Mr. Papantoniou had been sentenced last time for fake "outside" in 2009. Other possible statements of this kind are also controlled which are not sincere. I would also like to remind you that then A/GEN, an undead Admiral, Mr Antoniadis, was against the modernisation of the six freshmen, with many arguments. The Navy Council unanimously rejected the proposal of the then Minister, Mr Papantoniou, to modernise these wells. And for those who have a question how much modernisation cost, I've got the number for him. It's about 488 million. In fact, the argument was that these frigates in a few years that the contract would end would be thirty years old and would be useless. And he proposed throughout the Naval Council, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I could refer to too much. Is that evidence? Oh, no. But is it reason for us to investigate what happened then? I think so. I would also like to remind you of an article written by Ioanna Mandrou in "Kathimerini", a journalist who is not happy with us. It's a tough article that Nikos Hatzinikolaou wrote at a time when Mr. Papantoniou was in the unpretentious and could do whatever he wants. In fact, I remind you that he sued Nikos at the time, Hadjikolaou, and he was ordered to receive a sum of around 11,000 euros, which he went and took. The figures, which are not controversial at the moment, but, in my opinion, are data, are as follows: First of all, let me tell you that in 2003 the conventions signed under Mr Papantoniou's Minister were 5.5 billion. Details: The controlled assumptions - modernising submarines are not - it is around 209 million. Aircraft transport, 272 million, delivery adventure. The modernisation we were talking about is 481 million, with a negative opinion of everything at the Navy. A hundred and seventy-four Leopard tanks, 1,700,000, without ammunition. She knows that, and that's where Maria is. No ammo! Sixty combat systems, 242 million. They were overcompensated, according to the people they know, about 60 percent. Twelve aggressive Apachi helicopters, 663 million dollars. Extremely over-costed and hated. The great twenty helicopters, the NH90, 699.1 million. I repeat that the offence of infidelity can indeed be recorded, but the offence of washing black money no. I don't want to waste more time. I listened very carefully to the former Minister of Justice. I will be very respectful to hear his opinion later. I guess he'll talk sometime. And I heard Mr. Loverdo. If anyone believes in this Chamber that there is even one Greek citizen - one, not two, one! - who would say in public, "Not investigate it, you're wrong", get me ahead of seeing him as well. It is our sacred obligation for this special parliamentary committee to work hard, to find all the evidence. It's not inquiring, it's pre-examination and it has increased responsibilities for those who don't know it, and it can deal with everything. And those who have a question, I still want to make a little reminder. Mr. Papantoniou was Minister of Finance in the events of the Stock Exchange, which took place in 1999, 2000, etc. He was the man who really gave way every two months that the Stock Exchange reflects the soundness of the Greek economy. Then they changed hands - for those with a weak memory - 136 billion drachmas. Some wretched civilians would go and sell their land at the time. And that's why there's still a limitation. Nobody's been punished. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I think I'm in time, Mr. President. I haven't exhausted ten minutes. What I would like to say: with very good intention, with great respect for justice, with great respect for the presumption of innocence, but I would like to believe responsible, because this country has not arrived in bankruptcy at random, something has been done and it has come where it has arrived, this special parliamentary committee with trouble, with pain, with evidence to do its job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, twenty-three students and students and two educational attendants from the High School of Skopelos. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We shall proceed with the third priority speaker, Mr Athanasios Davakis, from New Democracy. Here, Mr. Davakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy is approaching the co-responsibility proposal based on four principles. The first principle is the principle of transparency, which, in our view - and I believe, for all the Members of this House - is an important prerequisite for the legalisation of our political system and for a modern and efficient policy. The signatures, in fact, by Mr Papantoniou in various FAOs, Information and Communication Leaflets, as well as his actions and omissions - some executives at that time who were the political leadership - are creating shadows that really need to be clarified. On the basis of this observation and on the basis of the principle of the net accounts of the political system for the control of these, which have managed political money or money of the Greek people in positions of responsibility that have been transferred, the New Democracy has taken serious, sober, responsible and not with expressions such as "estimates of people who know", "concerning armaments", as has just been heard, comes to this process. The New Democracy, a parade which, over time, places transparency at the centre of the political system and is fully aware of the need to shed plenty of light, will support this case and will request - and will contribute to it - to shed plenty of light on these specific six procedural documents. It is no accident - and that is why we say this - that as a government, ladies and gentlemen, in 2004, it responded directly to similar requests - directly, I repeat - of the judicial authorities for the investigation of specific cases and of the TOR - M1, the relevant convention on Compensatory Benefits, the 'A - Oh' and the anti-missile radars, the TPQ37 - I tell you a term of military - in the form of a committee of inquiry 20 days after having received the relevant documents. Nor, of course, is it accidental that we ourselves - like others in this Chamber - are in favour of abolishing Article 86 of the Constitution 'for the sake of responsibility'. The issue that arises for us is although you, too, are aware of this task, this debt is a clear approach to these issues. Because specifically questions arise from the long-term delay and the time, the time chosen for this Chamber to discuss at these times, at which the evaluation has not been closed, which PPC issues, dissents and controversies of Ministers also arises and so on, and to discuss today this House today on issues such as the ones that go back to the end of the day. I would even say that this is what the government is trying to do when it sees a significant leak of votes in other directions and when it also sees the Greek people being upset by the policy that you have been doing for two years, which has become a nightmare for the Greek people. You are trying today with 'flash-shock bombs', I would say, to create such phenomena. The second principle under which the New Democracy approachs the proposal for a special parliamentary committee is to protect public money and respect the Greek taxpayer. Transparency, as I said before, is not the only source of legitimacy for the political system. It is clear that citizens' confidence, this shaken confidence in all of us, and in institutions and the state, depends, among other things, on how we handle the public fund. Three of the proceedings that have been sent to Parliament relate to main contracts of armaments with a total value of about EUR 2.110,000, a high amount for today's data, which was made by lending. It is therefore obvious that we need full dialogue and it is more necessary than ever before. In addition, the proceedings referred to in the Government's proposal relate to indications arising from the conclusion and management of compensatory contracts, the well-known IO. These concern a tool, which is rationally managed - and that is important because it has dealt with many times both the Committee on Foreign and Defence and all of us who are involved in it - that the compensatory benefits instead of being an example of the break-up of the process should be development objectives, which could have brought home the domestic defence industries to competitive industries with the export of know-how and above all the promotion of the country's defence. This and so many others have brought our defence industry into the current state and we see every one of them as Deputy Minister of Defence, I would like to say, with sympathy, to support with amendments the case called 'defense industry', a case which is misled by the uncertainty and all those that make up your ideas towards this industry. The third principle is to protect the authority of the Armed Forces and their operational readiness. In particular, because of the shadows, ladies and gentlemen, which concern some equipment projects, such as those we are talking about now, many seem to embrace the view - it has been heard before - that all irrespective of the costs of the Armed Forces are counterproductive and absorb public resources as a source of corruption. Characteristics of this view are the first lines of your proposal, which reads: "The country's armaments programmes have always been a source of risks for corruption of structures and individuals". However, criminal responsibilities are attributed to specific acts and to specific persons who carried out those acts and not indiscriminately. The country's armaments expenditure is the result of the need to maintain operational readiness of the Armed Forces, the need to adapt to technological developments and the need to respond to various changes in the geopolitical environment. In particular, in a country such as Greece, which is a constant concept of threat. It is therefore regrettable that such generalisations should be reproduced in an official government document. In fact, these generalisations, which affect both the moral and the work carried out in the Armed Forces, should be signed together by both the political leadership and the colleagues who are members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence and at a time of particular tension and particular problems. Also, this is done at a time when the upgrading of aircraft of the Air Force has already been mentioned and announced and, indeed, an upgrade that the Minister of National Defence determines as required, as immediate and extremely urgent. In what shadows will this whole process become? On the one hand, to speak of F35, and on the other, to say that there are shadows, that there is a source of corruption and opacity, and all that which compose a bleak and, on the other, I would say, a dark environment, which you are trying to set up. And we say so, which we are obviously in favour of this committee's recommendation, based on the first principle I have mentioned, of transparency. The fourth principle is to protect the parliamentary procedure and the procedure for the administration of justice from the danger of turning this special committee which we are going to recommend today as an area - and we have experienced this in the past - where there will be an epitome of clandestineness, splendid statements and a rain of papers. And this has happened in the past, ladies and gentlemen. We have already referred to the suspicions raised by the delay and the choice of time for tabling the proposal. In addition to this, we are also concerned that the government has approached the drafting of the proposal itself. I say this because where you will see - and I address my fellow Members as well as my fellow Members who have nothing to do with these issues - the word 'frameworks' is a question of freshmen. I would ask, from now on, that the authors of these proposals deactivate the automatic rectifier and not show us the frigates as dams in this Chamber. He's gonna laugh, too! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I did not see any other point of view or reaction raised, because perhaps many of my fellow Members agreed that we were talking about opacity over specific dams. These are waterproofing and plumbing works for the rivers. It is therefore necessary to underline something that the government must take seriously: our positive vote, ladies and gentlemen, is accompanied by our irreversible commitment to strict observance of the rules and the proper protection of the functioning of the committee. The New Democracy will not allow this important process to be transformed into a tool for resolving political differences. I would like to express my hopes for everyone, but also for those who will be involved in this committee, so that we do not become convicted every time and raise our own party biscuit in the eyes of a conclusion and in our view - our party view - in the committee. We must commit ourselves today to a joint conclusion of this committee. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to rebuild the relations of truth and confidence with the citizens and to protect the sovereignty of the Armed Forces, the New Democracy will vote in favour of the proposal to set up the Special Parliamentary Committee on the six cases, in accordance with the proposal you have given us, concerning the Minister of Mr Yiannou Papantoniou. At the same time, it warns that it will not allow a panic - and indeed - government to turn this process into a string of meaningless confrontations and a platform of portable statements, which I fear are intended to be. I would like to believe that what is important is the investigation of the truth, the building of a new confidence among Greek citizens and the preservation of the prestige and integrity of the Armed Forces. For with regard to the reports that have arisen, which say that between 2001 and 2004 there was a mediation orgy, the fragmentation of public money and opaque armaments, I would like to say that, apart from the critics to which we will also be your allies to find them, these markets that keep the worthy of our Armed Forces still running. These markets are the markets that are supported by the officials of the Armed Forces who support them with sweat and blood and with the money of the Greek people...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u45	Mr. Davakis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u46	I shall conclude, Mr President. I repeat that, with the money of the Greek people, they continue to be the best response to the neighbour's application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, twenty-four students and students and two attendants from the 4th Haidari Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you - because requests from parliamentary representatives began to be made - that everyone is not speaking at all. We will conclude with the speakers as a matter of priority and then every three Members will speak a parliamentary representative. So every seven and seven, fourteen, we'll be done. I'll start in turn. If anyone doesn't want to take the floor, I'll go to the next one. We are now going to the fourth speaker, who is Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou, from the PASOK - DIMAR. Mr. Papatheodorou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister has played many roles over the last ten days. One day he appears to be a reverent believer in the Holy Tomb, the other as a proleaic Europeanist on the anniversary of the Treaty of Rome. Yesterday it appeared as a special successor to the history of the stone-time left races at the "Belgian" Museum and today it appears as an archangel of the clearance against the timeless corruption and complexity of the country and soon, will appear as a ritual of major works that inaugurate and modernise the country. Many roles in short and concentrated political time, at the same time as the negotiation for evaluation is not over, while what is believed by many is that the delay leads to a fourth memorandum and in 2017 will be another year of stagnation, with no prospect of exiting the country into the markets. These roles serve a generalized diversion and communication management operation to which the government has arrived but do not serve the real needs of the country. The tactics of the recurring fireworks are more at risk of the burning of what it is used, despite the production of a spectacular spectacle. Faced with this tactic, the Democratic Partnership will denounce and denounce to the Greek people the diversion operation that you are currently doing, as well as the selective criminalisation of political life at a very critical moment for the country. To be clear about our intentions and attitudes, you are now proposing the setting up of a special parliamentary committee to carry out a preliminary examination of the equipment programmes of the period 2001-2004 and of cases all involving the former Minister Giannos Papantoniou. Our position is that we will be voting in favour of the establishment of this committee, as we voted for reasons of principle both for the financing of political parties and the media and for the period of Mr Varoufakis in the Ministry of Finance with the known results for the country. And we will vote in favour of it, because we first had called for a special parliamentary committee to be set up on the conditions which led to the country's bankruptcy from entering EMU until today, and you refused that. We shall be voting in favour of it in order to shed plenty of light from then on in all the acts and omissions of the governments of Simitis, Karamanlis, Papandreou, Papademos, Samaras, Tsipras and the people to learn the truth about the launching of the debt, the armaments programs of all periods, the pillaging of the public wealth, the divestment and the resilience of the banks. Therefore, transparency everywhere. That is what we are claiming, and we repeat that the truth will come to light for everything without protected zones, without being face to faces without arbitrary conspiracy, without communication fireworks, without drunken revelations. Instead, you choose - why? - the transparency of cards, the salariation of special parliamentary committees, the discrimination of government periods. Is there only in 2001-2004, armaments, compensatory benefits, commissions? This is what we read in your proposal. Wasn't there after 2004-2009? Aren't there in the current period? So you choose through legal acrobatics, through a transcendental excuse to present a proposal today, which you will be voting for with the parliamentary majority, which you have, another special parliamentary committee, to push with supposedly revealing the political time that is pressing the country in the summer, where the Greek people will discover the new achievements of your brave negotiation. And because you have bothered to draw up the proposal for a special parliamentary committee, which we are discussing today, it is a question of the slightness of documenting your claims to the National Representation. You say that the equipment programmes under consideration go back to a more comprehensive period in which acts and omissions of the old political system were culminated, which led the country to bankruptcy. You combine equipment with the excesses of Olympic works, the Stock Exchange, the lending of SMEs, despite the fact that you are ultimately focusing on just a period of 2001-2004, without connecting it to the rest, as well as to the lending of SMEs, for which no one was found, but no connection with political persons, according to your finding. Of course, you are thoroughly forgetting that during the next period, of course, where you do not systematically see any picture of interrelated and corruption, there were also armament programmes. You say in your proposal that on the basis of Article 86 of the Constitution, the examination of the acts and omissions attributed to the person concerned is hampered by the limitation, with the exception of the accompanying acts, for which there are strong indications. However, how excessive is it that the ancillary offence will remain strong when the main offence has been dropped? However, at no point in the proposal you do not substantiate any indication, strong or not, in six cases, of the crimes of infidelity, possibly also money laundering, which are considered to be relevant to the basic crime, which concerns the person against whom this procedure is being conducted and the offences which you have identified. The majority rapporteur said earlier that we have indications - not which - from the procedural documents that it is even related to the basic crime of the legalisation of that period with Mr Papantoniou. Why don't you mention a single indication here? Something, an account? You arrive at the point where you can conclude that regardless of whether or not the time-limit for crimes of infidelity has expired, it is clear that in one case - you have set out all six - a crime involving money laundering is being investigated. You also make no reference to the indications that are strong or unimportant, but you quote five other cases, which cannot be considered. However, what has been omitted will obviously be examined in the committee. In addition, different theories about the direct relevance of money laundering are known in the criminal dogmatics, resulting from the same objective nature of money laundering, which includes as its component the execution of basic crime or criminal offences which have not been committed in the performance of the duty of the Minister and which are subject to the joint arrangements of the Judicial and Judicial Law. As for the offence of money laundering from criminal activity, there is no mention in your proposal, even vaguely, of illegal enrichment, which is the key element of the objective nature of the crime and how this enrichment came from where it came from. How did he get legalized? What are the indications, therefore, for which the rapporteur spoke beforehand? I say this, not because I claim there is nothing in any of these periods. I don't support it, because, you know what? When a special parliamentary committee is held, we are all supposed to seek transparency. I support, however, that the proposal you bring to the National Representation in order to vote for the setting up of a special parliamentary committee does not have any documentation. You are doing a political act and you are walking on the basis of a political planning. It has nothing to do with the rest. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Your tolerance, Mr President, for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u49	You have a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u50	However, the problem is not the criminal theories of the relevance of the crimes or the way in which you have drawn up your proposal to the National Representation, but the non-existent haunting of the proposal with unconnected facts, such as for example what has been said before - because it is mentioned in the proposal - for the existence of a confidence in a bank abroad, when the Minister in question was not even a Minister of Defence and the time period had nothing to do with the equipment. You consider the account opened two years ago and in accordance with a decision of the Ice Board, there was not a single euro more in the later period, where the Minister was Minister of National Defence. What are you going to connect? Something that goes beyond logic, if not legal reality? You want to proceed with political fireworks in the special parliamentary committee. As I told you before, we will be voting in favour of this proposal, because we want transparency for the period under consideration, as for all the other periods until now for which you are consciously denying any research and not any transparency of the type of headlines in your new favourite form of musculology, images and association, aimed at judges and politicians. Do you really have wondered how every Sunday there's been evidence of a case in a particular newspaper without any Minister bothering and commenting on it? You'll answer Mrs. Ryku if she denounces...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u51	Mrs. Riku answer, not us!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u52	I'll answer you. Let me go, I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u53	Please don't interrupt, Mr. Papatheodorou, please, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u54	I shall conclude, Mr President. Will you answer Mrs Ryku if she denounces, as she supports, names and also centres that have wanted to influence her judicial opinion? I'm telling her, if she denounces, will you answer her for that?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u55	Of course, I'd be happy to.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u56	We invite her to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u57	Very good.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u58	Please hang up. Don't interrupt. Mr. Famelle, you're here on vacation. Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u59	So it's going to be interesting to discuss between you two in the next few days, from what I understand. We claim real transparency, what the country and the people need, what the PASOK government has supported by the 2011 Act, which widened the scope of the Law on Responsibility of Ministers, the one which does not work in line with the circumstances and the impasses of the government, but controls power and protects the public interest. But such transparency, ladies and gentlemen, I very much fear that it will be a constant threat...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u60	Mr. Papatheodorou, please close.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u61	You want to ruin my closure, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u62	Yeah, hang up, because you're talking four minutes longer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u63	So I was saying this. Such transparency, I fear, will be a constant threat to the SYRIZA Government - ANEL, and we may see this in the future, if not in the coming months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u64	First of all, I would like to point out to the ladies and gentlemen of the Minutes, where they have been heard by colleagues in an 'example' inquiries, to be written 'a special parliamentary committee'. We are not talking today about examination. We are talking about the once before inquiries which, by changing the Rules of Procedure, turned into a special parliamentary committee. Another thing the other thing. And I ask the Members who will speak not to say 'examination' but to a special parliamentary committee. We proceed to the fifth speaker, Mr Panagiotis Eliopoulos, from the People's Association - Golden Dawn. Here, Mr. Heliopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President. We still have a special parliamentary committee, as you said, and you want to call it. But the name does not matter, it is important that this is another parliamentary deed, another repetition of a serial, like the ones of the MEGA, which never closes, of the parliamentary history of our country. We have had fifteen committees of inquiry - and say them by whatever name you want - which have not brought any results at all. Thousands of hours of conversation, practices, supposedly hearings, which have not brought the slightest effect. It has not been brought to justice and no political person has been convicted of what has been responsible for over the last forty years for our country's outrage. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr President, I cannot do this. There's no work going on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u66	Anyone who wants to, please, can come out.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u67	We had different findings issued in each committee. There is a law that now covers everything and that law has been brought to him by Venizelos - the great Venizelos - but no party, no matter how much the New Democracy protests or two and a half years now, SYRIZA has dared to abolish it, and it is a law that is abolished very simply. We are, of course, talking about the law on the liability of Ministers, an abortion law, which suits the entire political system, from the left to the supposedly right. This is a law that so many years helps you come, leave and cover each other. This law, of course, with a Golden Dawn government will be abolished in one morning. The political system, through these committees, goes up. There is a self-clearing, supposedly, of the political system through these committees, through these communication shows, which are all about washing out the political system. From PASOK, then, the criminal organisation of which one member is already in prison and another today will be brought to the committee concerned, so many members are accused of corruption, money laundering and armaments. It is a party which, since 1980, has introduced, with great success, corruption and hatred in the political scene of the country, a party which no Prime Minister of either Andreas Papandreou nor Simitis, nor Giorgakis Papandreou, none of them knew what the Defence Ministers are doing, did not know that some were stealing through armaments - and not just as there are health issues - programs, etc. None of his Prime Minister nor Simitis, for example, who has the nerve to go out and intervene, did not ask any of his counterparts abroad, to say: "Hey, guys, how much did you get the armoured tanks? How much did you get the planes? How long did you get the missiles? Because we take them twice as much as we do." No Prime Minister has gone into this trouble to ask about what his ministers are doing, because Greece, this misery - as you have made it - pays twice and three times its equipment programs. In fact, the great Venizelos said to the relevant committee, before Akis Tsohatzopoulos was taken to prison, but only one vote leader of the PASOK criminal organisation: "There is no evidence of a possible criminal offence by Mr Tsohatzopoulos and Mr Papantoniou, who for months have been insulted and misinterpreted." That's what Venizelos said about a man still in prison. So this is PASOK. Speaking of PASOK: A name, a dirty story, a cancer of the modern history of our country. But let's see why today's committee is being held, tell it what you want. Yesterday, Tsipras "with his back on the wall", to smack - to say popular - the left reflexes of his audience, opened a museum for Belogannis. For... the Communist Party, for the man responsible for so many crimes a museum was inaugurated. Of course, for Paul Mela, whose house is devastated in Kifisia, there has been no word from the current government. For a man who was an aristocrat and went to fight, left riches, left his family behind and went to fight for the liberation of Macedonia, there is not a single word. And so we come to today: Monument for... Kick Belogannis, who has sanctified him with this famous carnation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u68	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u69	Tell this to those who have suffered from the JRC and the barbarism.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u70	Don't answer. Keep going. Don't have a dialogue about Beloganne.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u71	Do not fly the gentlemen for the JRC massacres.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u72	Don't talk about these things. You're wasting time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u73	I really don't want to have a dialogue with them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u74	Who did he slaughter?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u75	Who did he slaughter? He gave the order for Melilla. Minister, you in education, who have broken up Greek education, should not speak better.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u76	Speak on the subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u77	It cannot speak like that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u78	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u79	Because for you too, for the Ministry of Education, which you have infected children's brains with your ideas, don't talk. Already tossed for...! We've touched... Belogannis!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u80	Can these things be said? Talking about...?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u81	Keep going!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u82	His house will break it down so he doesn't remember the crimes of communism when the time comes. You will see the Belogannis Museum what has to do with it when the Golden Dawn comes to things.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u83	Keep going. No house can be demolished! Absolutely none.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u84	All right, you'll see!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u85	You're supportive of Beloganne?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u86	Keep calm!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u87	Mr President, can you tell us the New Democracy's view of Beloganne?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u88	You're supportive of Beloganne? You, a right-wing guy?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u89	Keep calm!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u90	So I continue to ask you, Mr President, and your colleagues in the New Democracy, what your view of Beloganne is. What's your opinion of Beloganne?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u91	I'm right, I'm not rude!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u92	What is your view of Beloganne, of Captain Jotis and the others, that you are weeping and resenting when they die? It's okay for you to judge the story, because you're the same as the left. We'll all be judged by history and you much more. Well, of course I'm coming back for the tricks of Tsipras. Tsipras opened his museum yesterday... - not to say it again - and today is starting a committee, a communication show, to cover what's coming. And what's coming is no more than the fourth Memorandum. It is no longer new bloody measures that will level Greek society, which cannot be tolerated, that cannot withstand any other measures. And yet, you're trying, by means of a communication show, to disorientate the Greek people. You know it very well about the game of communication. You can teach at university too, you leftists, when your term of office is over, how propaganda can work in masses. You are applying this very well, I have to say and admit. So we come to New Democracy. Mr. Tragakis said in 2005 to our committee specifically...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u93	Mr. Tragakis!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u94	All right, are you mad? They call us a criminal organization! The day before yesterday, Papanatsiou was telling us a criminal organization and you were President and you weren't. And we call the "master" Tragaki?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u95	"Mr. Tragakis" to be written in the Minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u96	The Golden Dawn, the third political party, "is a criminal organization" sounds in here, is written in the Minutes. You are not saying anything to Papanatsiou - and I will not say it 'lady' - and you have been tempted about Tragakis! I'll call him whatever I want. Put it in the Minutes'sir'. I'm going to call it the Tragakis, as you tell us in here. You have never used the "sir". Well, Tragakis said he's fully documented Aki's and Papantoniou's involvement in armaments and stopped. Why did they stop? In 2005, the exam stopped. With the disgraceful law on the liability of Ministers, the main offence of greed has been dropped, and we are coming today to cover up the case of money laundering. At that time, the New Democracy said it stopped with Tragakis and today wants to be a committee of inquiry. Because I see time is running out for the son of Papantoniou, of course, to say that when an account was found - do not overlook this - of these thousands of Papantoniou with some millions in it, he said it was for his son's studies. Of course, today his son, where is he? He's in New Democracy. It is an excellent, elite member of the New Democracy from those who slowly take us away from the Greek people of PASOK, and who is now the son of Papatonios, who is in New Democracy. This is New Democracy: SIEMENS Mister working with the son of armaments, the master of armaments, the Papantoniou. Babis cried before Athanasios - explaining - and said that when the New Democracy comes out, he would - he said - abolish the electoral privileges of the MPs. Instead of saying that by means of a law he would abolish the law on the responsibility of the ministers, Babis said he would abolish - he said - the electoral prerogatives. Karamanlis then called the high priest of the interlocutory the Simitis. Who has the New Democracy punished for the years he has ruled? Nobody! Cover one scandal after another, and today they come and tell us from morning to night - and Mitsotakis and Georgiadis and all the members of the New Democracy - as soon as Symble tells them they have to apply and - why not? - to vote on new measures as well, that the state has continued to do so. Clearly, gentlemen of the New Democracy, and the state forty years has been continuing in the strife, corruption. You change with PASOK and the state has this nice continuity of interlocutory and corruption. In conclusion, I would like to say that if you do not understand this, if you do not have any contact with reality, the Greek citizen today wants two things: he wants the thieves to go to jail and the stolen ones to be attributed to the Greek public. This can only be done with a national governance: the Golden Dawn. It's over and over!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u97	From the Minutes of Parliament, personally assume responsibility and having the approval of a large majority of colleagues, the two characters should be deleted.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u98	Why? Wasn't it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u99	I didn't ask you, Mr. Micho. Jerk! With me, that kind of thing in the Chair! So be quiet. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Get out! Is that right? Out. Don't answer. [[At this point the Members of the Golden Dawn depart from the Chamber]] Mr Athanasios Vardalis has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, you will allow me to comment. The Fascist Golden Dawn does not even have the moral stature to refer to the action of Belogan and the Communist Party of Greece, because when Belogannis and the Communist Party of Greece fought the conquerors, these are the descendants of those who worked with them at the time, who wore hoods and sent people to the executive squad. Hitler's fans seem even today to be unable to digest the defeat of fascism by the Red Army. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are clear from the outset about the proposal to set up a special parliamentary committee to carry out a preliminary examination. Our position is that, in any case, all cases that may contain dark aspects should be investigated in detail and that they should create suspicions of illegal activities. That is why we will be voting in favour of setting up the proposed special parliamentary committee. Of course, we are taking into account the experience of working and the results of both the committees of inquiry and the special parliamentary committees in the recent past and we have no illusions about the results. But, through this process, we will also highlight aspects relating to the orientation of the country's armaments programmes and, more generally, the country's defence dogma, corruption and scandals, the causes that raise them, and the whole of the proposal by the Communist Party on these issues. Why now? Why was this period chosen by SYRIZA to table the proposal for a special parliamentary committee? First of all, all procedural documents, in addition to one, were forwarded to the Parliament from 2015 to August 2016. Therefore, such a proposal could come beforehand. In our view, the government seeks to use it as a disorientation vehicle in the face of the new intensity of the anti-grass attack by closing the second assessment. From the experience so far, through the functioning of such committees, governments and parties have tried to disorientate the people from the main cause of the economic capitalist crisis. You have tried and made an effort, even today, to believe the workers and the people that the economic crisis is a consequence of some who have "eaten it", who have "remoules" which have been "expected" rather than, of course, as a result of the capitalist system and capitalist exploitation. The subject of the examination of the special parliamentary committee you are proposing is only a mere symptom of a truly scandalous and time-consuming policy of all governments to date, and of today's policy. It is a policy that, for decades now, the supply of war material by the Armed Forces has not served, as it should, solely for the defence of borders, but to a large extent has been oriented towards the requirements arising from the need to serve the naval projects. The equipment programs, which all governments are planning and implementing over time, fuel the accumulated debt and deepen the country's intra-imperialist competition. In 2009 state debt related to defensive war spending exceeded 50% of gross national product and represented about 40% of government debt. Greece, since 1974, has consistently held one of the first ten world positions on the imports of weapons systems, even a few years ago in the first triad. At the same time, the great defence expenditure was fuelling corruption and money laundering, including civil servants. It was this policy that has reduced the domestic defence industry and the current government is implementing a cleansing and delivery plan to monopolies of the assets of UAE, ELVO and others. It is a policy that serves the European Commission's plans to move towards a more competitive and efficient defence and security sector and, of course, requires the dismantling and acquisition of smaller public defence-industrial enterprises in the Member States of the European Union and, at best, their conversion into subcontractors of monopolistic groups. The incorporation of Directive 81/2009 initiates liberalisation in the field of defence procurement, drastically limiting the possibility for Member States to directly entrust the production of war equipment to domestic industries. Therefore, the path of depreciation of the war industry, which was mentioned by previous speaker, did not fall out of the sky. On the other hand, it is the combined effect of the role of arms imports and weapons systems, our country's commitments in the context of the European Union and NATO, the need to ensure the profitability of monopolistic groups that are active in the sale and marketing of war materials. With regard to the wonderful compensatory benefits, they had been introduced since the 1980s and were allegedly intended to transfer know-how and development of the domestic defence industry to secure jobs. In the process, guidelines were drawn up by governments for better management and implementation. But the results are well known. What has been proved all these years? That in the end, the compensatory benefits, not only, do not reduce the cost of a defence contract, but they have borne the final price of the main military supply contract. Through these programmes, funds are being moved from suppliers to companies implementing compensatory benefits. Thus, they are allowed possibilities for side and non-legal payment networks. Finally, any transfer of know-how and technology to the domestic industry was entirely low in general. As a presumption, the critical elements of a defence material are not available as know-how in compensatory benefits contracts. In the name of that that many compensatory benefits contracts were tolerated, you promoted transitional provisions, which were in force until 31/12-2016, which provided for the continuation, completion and winding-up of outstanding contracts. In practice, that is, they have been implemented so far. Ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of today's debate, both the government and the other opposition parties raised once again the flag of the fight against corruption and the flag of transparency. There is no doubt at all that corruption, redemption, money laundering exist to a large extent in capitalist society. The developments and experiences of recent years fully confirm what our party has been telling us, that corruption and the involvement between capital and political staff, among the bourgeoismen and their state, are inherent in the capitalist way of organising production and emerging the bowl of his rot. All these cases, every mistress, money laundering, stem from what you are all defending, the great capitalist property and the monopolies. Of course, civil justice, when faced with corruption of public procurement policies, focuses only on the corrupter, "forgotten" that the great winner is the corrupter. When some are bought, at the same time, there is also the one who buys them. Why do martial production industries give misery, buy politicians and others around the world? Why 'SIEMENS', 'LOCKHEED', did they do the same? But the answer is clear: To ensure more profits, to compete more effectively with other business groups, which are active in the same sector, to take a better place in their own slaughter, in order to get jobs, increase their profits and condemn the poverty of the people. You all say that the ever more stringent institutional framework in general for government procurement and especially for the supply of armaments programmes will be able to deal with the phenomena of opacity and corruption. However, the wound of corruption is not metaphysical nor does anyone have it in their blood. It is found in the DNA of capitalism itself, of its own system, which also operates such corrupt consciences. So, whatever one sees it, the profit, the competition of business groups is the one that breeds and creates scandals and complications. To stop there, there must be no cause for her. But the great scandal is the implementation of a policy that serves the interests of capital. And it's scandalous, because the biggest robbery of the workers' sweat is legally done, it's done through the memoranda, the wage and pension cuts, the privatisations that you all support. With legal and illegal theft, the capital ensures its profits. This is the 'homous' capitalism you defend. We also remind ourselves that there is a whole grid of protection of capital, including banking confidentiality, commercial secrecy and other security controls. The JRC has repeatedly tabled proposals which could help to curb these phenomena, even today, since their radical approach requires deeper changes. These are proposals, such as denomination of all shares and different securities - bonds, bonds, etc. - so that there can be control over what each owns, control over the export of funds from the country to each destination, a ban on so-called overseas, offshore, companies, abolition of tax, banking, business and commercial secrecy, in other words, abolition of all the so-called'residues'. All these proposals, however, stumble in the denial of the urban parties and their governments, who reject them, such as the hell of the ink. To conclude, I say: For the radical response of corruption and conflict, deeper changes are needed, both in the economy and in society. To put a definitive end to such phenomena, this system must be overthrown. A working-people's power, which will have the wealth, the factories, the varnishes, is the only one that can fight this evil at its root. Thank you for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u101	We shall now proceed to Mr Ioannis Saridis from the Centroon Association. Mr. Saridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u102	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a great deal of interest has already been heard. Indeed, this matter, regardless of whether it was deliberately opened now or not, has the communication dynamic to turn the interest of the Greeks elsewhere, anywhere far away, but not on the national key issues, one of which is the second assessment. There has been a lot of ink about the committees of inquiry or the special parliamentary committees, of all kinds, and the soup and the pen, as Mr Polydoras and Mr Venizelos tell us, according to the minutes of the plenary of 25 February 2005, which I am tabling in today's plenary session. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Saridis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned Minutes, which are in the Secretariat Department of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] Then, twelve years ago, from the plenary hall gallery, they attended the sitting of eighteen students and students of the 3rd High School of Nice Piraeus. Today's twenty-seven heard, in February 2005, as high school students, Evangelos Venizelos beginning his speech, calling on the Members of Parliament to ask how it started, immediately after the 2004 elections, and where the defence armies case is now in February 2005. He then thought that the case was launched as a huge political and possibly criminal scandal and today - he meant February 2005 - he has evaporated. What if these children were to think, when almost eight years later, on 17 April 2012, Mr. Tsohatzopoulos was found to be a convicted person and led to Korydall? That day Mr. Tsochazopoulos was present in this Chamber. From the theory, in fact, he was then seen and forty - two students and students, as well as five fellow professors from Amphisia High School. It is precisely what the Committee of Inquiry, which had dealt with Mr Tsohatzopoulos, has been able to illuminate so far. What was it that he had given Parliament, the Greek people, to return after the end of the committee of inquiry to express his warm congratulations to Mr Tsohatzopoulos? What we have to say is that, from 25 February 2005 until today, it has not been answered as to what had happened in this case. There have been too many committees, there has been too much ink in the newspapers, there has been a lot of talk in the channels. But nothing happened, absolutely nothing! We have heard Mr Papantoniou express his indignation at the fact that nothing had finally been heard in the committee of inquiry at that time, the feelings of anger and indignation about the involvement of his name in the TO - M1 and TPQ -37 cases. Few then noticed that Mr Papantoniou did not say it 'TPQ-37 GR', that is to say, the 'GR' at the end, as Mr Tsohatzopoulos did earlier on that day, in order to highlight the more than thirty construction changes - thirty two additional improvements, in fact - which had been made by Greek intervention, in order to be especially adapted to the conditions of Greece. Mr Tsohatzopoulos said this, so that he could finally end up and give strong support to Parliament that no damage and no delay existed in the Greek interests. "Amendment, there has been..." - he said - "...benefit. And I want to stress this in every way." These were the words of Mr. Tsochazopoulos, who had closed the speech, asking this amazing historically important question: "We are completing the Greek national strategy, we are promoting the public and national interest in the defence and security of our country. Is it a crime of infidelity?' But Mr Tragakis, on the New Democracy side, answered this question several years later. On 7 January 2014 - as you may remember all - he informed the Greeks, commenting on the work of that 2005 exam, with statements to the press that Mr Papantoniou was not able to participate in the TOR - M1, because she had been completed by Mrs Tsohatopoulos. "We had found all the evidence showing Chohatzopoulos," he said. "But also for Papantoniou, we said in the finding of the examination that there was serious evidence of infidelity. You know, however, that it's hard to lead to pre-interrogation for infidelity. We wanted to go for bribery." Those were Mr. Tragaki's words.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u103	Mr. Saridis, I'll interrupt you for fifteen seconds. I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theory forty-four students and students and two educational attendants from the 2nd Corinth Municipal School. Welcome to the House. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Thank you, Mr. Saridis. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr President. You may have wanted, indeed, Mr Tragakis and gentlemen of the New Democracy - and I do not doubt that - to shed plenty of light, but, as you yourself said in January 2014, you have already known since 2005 that it has been difficult to get things into pre-inquiry on the charge of infidelity alone. So, on 22 February 2005 you and all those Members who had identified political responsibilities, but not evidence of criminals, the opening of certain bank accounts abroad. Without being able to do anything at all, you accepted the congratulations in this Chamber of Aki Tsochazopoulos and heard Mr Papantoniou's indignation. None of you and all those Members, who have continued to be present in this Chamber since then, could anticipate then - it is true - what dramatically would happen in the course, not even the extremely insightful and respected colleague, who is currently missing from the Chamber, Mr Loverdos, who also took part in this plenary sitting and had pointed out then, by his intervention, to a New Democracy MEP from this step: 'It is as if there were no committee of inquiry. As if we haven't done anything for three months on the institutional fuse of the committee of inquiry. Like we didn't hear any witnesses. It's like we didn't evaluate any papers. It's like we haven't seen anything. "The Government of New Democracy..." - had said at that time - "... achieved the impossible: "to change in twelve months, the Ministry of National Defence from the Ministry of National Cohesion and National Unity, to a Ministry of Civil Prosecution." No one could predict how many years it would take for sinners to open up bank accounts, proving the illegal course of huge sums of money, which may have begun from somewhere in Russia, were passed from Cyprus and then driven to the United States, to end up with the Swiss banks, which, as everyone admits, were too late to cooperate. All of this and many other things that are summarized in the comment "In Greece there are sinful conventions and not sinners", we also know them in this Chamber and the Greek citizens. I am sure that many will remember the participation of Mrs Xerotyri, on behalf of the Coalition, in the 2005 exam, but also the participation of Mr. Dritsa, as SYRIZA's only representative, in the 2011 exam and what the two had then added to the findings respectively. Of course, we must not forget, and why Mr Tsohatzopoulos is here today, where he is. As a charming friend, "and Al Capone for tax evasion, they caught him and not for murder." This comment is based, as we all know that according to the law 'demand of Ministers' and as the reality has shown, the omission of the true responsibilities is done easily and quickly. And it will continue to be easy and fast as this law applies. Are these new findings new? Does the Greek people hear them for the first time? On the occasion of and the debate that opens up for the constitutional review proposed by the Government, I will make a relevant reference, which I consider to be very important. In his article "BIMA", in May 2006, Mr.Ioannis Varvitsiotis wrote: "I was surprised to note that the Government's proposals for the revision of the Constitution do not include Article 86, which regulates the criminal liability of the Ministers for offences they committed in the performance of their duties". And it continued, by saying the above wise words, which I can assure you that the Greeks have not forgotten: "The most scandalous is the last sentence of Article 86(3) of the Constitution, according to which Parliament may exercise its powers under paragraph 1, to set up a committee and prosecute until the end of the second regular session of the parliamentary term which starts after the end of the crime. With this provision, impunity is almost certain of the offences committed in the last part-session of the previous parliamentary term, since the same party wins the elections. This time limit is obvious to be suffocating and leads to the abolition of the criminal offences within a few years of their completion." [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In these very important and important findings by Mr Ioannis Varvitsiotis, we can add others, such as the fact that another Member and former President of Parliament, who is seated at the seat of the President of this Parliament today, the respected Mr Kaklamanis, put a timely question to the Prime Minister and wrote to President Psarouda - Benaki, according to and according to the relevant publication of "ELEVERTERYPTIA", requesting, in substance, the extension of the session in order not to write down any offences.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u105	You're wrong. You're talking about another Kaklamani.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u106	For Apostle Kaklamani. That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u107	Read the newspapers right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u108	Some in Thessaloniki certainly remember my friend and fellow Member Triantafyllidis as a journalist at the ET3, in 2010, to ask Minister Beglitis on the show "Lavrynthos" things that were answered much later.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u109	But finish with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u110	Ladies and gentlemen, from the above and from what has already been said today and from what we do not have time to remember, it is clear that we can no longer hide or play with words and procedures. Ethics and legal dilemmas have been working on citizens for a long time and have now reached conclusions. And since the history of the committees of inquiry so far does not inspire the citizens of any kind of confidence, nor does it strengthen the sense of justice, and given the tragic events in the field of justice, the Centro Association considers its obligation to the people to vote for the majority proposal to set up a special parliamentary committee and recalls that, the only thing new in this case, it is precisely the participation of the Union of Centres, which has proved to be self-evidently and undeniably nothing to do with it, in any way, in any title, in any way. We are therefore a clear look at this case. And since we are well aware of this, we also feel the burden of the involvement of the committee as much greater than we are, as we understand that, once again, as with the examination of the loans of the political parties and the media, only the Central Association will again insist - from the very beginning - on the need to formulate and draw up a sincere joint conclusion, without shadows, without implying, without re-organisations. I close with a personal observation, reading the majority proposal. Honestly, I have not been able to see any convincing arguments, but only a simple reference to the six pleadings. So, did you and the hundred and fifty-three Members of Parliament read these motions? We find "good morning" your well-known handshake, which is obvious, once again here today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u111	We still have two of our first colleagues, Mr Dannelly and Mr Nicholas. Then the first cycle will begin and, as I said, three colleagues will speak. Parliamentary spokesman for the Golden Dawn has asked for a debate, Mr. Poppas. And we will continue with three colleagues and a parliamentarian. Of course, the ministers can intervene at any time for their tenth. Mr. Spyridon Dannelis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the best seller of "1821-2016" the famous historian George Dertilis writes "Seven wars, four civils, seven bankruptcies". All wars and all bankruptcys of modern Greek history repeat a sequence of causes and causes. Excessive military costs, overcompensation and insufficient tax revenues were linked to a vicious circle or, more or less, to a vicious coil. This vortex is somehow swirling, usually leading to debt restructuring under international financial control. Unfortunately, we're in the same strial today. And it is no exaggeration to say that the armaments scandals are a time-consuming phenomenon, a permanent pattern that accentuates the almost two hundred years history of the modern Greek state. Over the last few decades, with an expansion of the demand for public health, this pattern has been expanding, including health. Defence and health costs are offered over time for large parties, with the common conviction of cost-efficiency for society. The surpriseing resignation of Mrs. Ryku from the Prosecutor of Corruption just a few days ago, to investigate exactly such cases, is a burden on the climate even more and requires immediate clear answers from all sides. But the procedures of the parliamentary committees of inquiry and pre-review, not only are not new, but go far behind. They go back to the distant 1847, where the small Greece was shocked by the star scandal, citing the then Minister of Finance Poneropoulos for misuse of public property. As they were called at the time, they gave the citizens who were conspiring in the gallery of the Parliament and even outside the House on a major political and moral issue. What they did not give, however, was a common finding on the basis of which the Minister would then refer to justice. The curse of the multiple findings and the deadlocks of such committees has taken us to this day. Over the last few decades we have seen a large number of committees of inquiry and pre-review. The list is long. We all remember their poor results. There was no agreement, even on the obvious. Separate findings, some headlines, assumptions in the competent court, and the issue is forgotten in drawers, but another burden of unreliability in the political system and a cause of suspicion in society. Ladies and gentlemen, it sounds 'all in the light'. We agree, everything in the light. We do not only agree by voting positively on the setting up of this special parliamentary committee, but because we are, over time, seeking transparency for everything and in all ways, constantly talking about institutional safeguarding and armouring. We firmly support the independent authorities, which in many instances are causing allergy. We firmly support the fact that the state machine must operate under unified procedures and not with continuous exceptions, which always leave room for manoeuvre and severance of public money. Gentlemen of the Government, the preference you show to direct awards on the grounds of urgency or unforeseen events creates uncontrollable, possible incubators of illegality and the fragmentation of public money. Ladies and gentlemen, the question that is being asked about this special parliamentary committee is: Are you really calling for a repetitive crime to be broken down by yielding responsibilities and for the damage to the public as far as possible, as well as the shielding of the future, or are you trying to disorientate the public debate from the deadlocks you face on the country's current big issues? The answer will depend on the adequacy and seriousness of the legal documentation in the referral. The special parliamentary committee, which will be set up after the end of this evening's procedure, will have a very difficult task. In order to be able to reach the result requested and to carry out the work of this committee, specific legal conditions, specific legal criteria, should be met. In other words, in order to tie the indictment, we need the complete path of the crime product recorded in a steep manner, in a way that is indifferent. In other words, we have to show for each individual case what the public' s damage is to what the intervention of the former Minister of Defence is and what his own benefit is. All this needs to be done so that the case is not ultimately dismissed by the judiciary or the Special Court, if it is there, as has happened in many other similar cases in the House in the past. In our case, of course, political responsibilities are clear and scandals exist. Our main task, however, will be to clarify whether there is a criminal aspect in the case, because, for the arrogant, which is carried out over time in connection with the armaments programmes - and not just - there must be clearance, which can only come from us, starting with this committee. Otherwise, ladies and gentlemen, we will meet before the new citizens. The logical extremist forces rub their hands. We can no longer allow - and some of us cannot tolerate - the permanent omnipotence of interlocutory and squandering public money, which is largely established in public opinion and which only has the victim of parliamentism and democracy, because we are not all the same and obviously not all of us bear the same responsibility. The political system has an obligation to protect itself. And he has tools to do that. Let's use them. And it has to be protected from the common conviction, which as a shadow flies and wants the political elite always to be served at an endless party of interlocutory and corruption. To this end, I have repeatedly called for during the meetings of the Special Standing Committee on Equipment and Contracts to change the role and the functioning of this Committee. To be useful at last. Let us stop simply acting legally as a Parliament of the Greeks in any decisions of the respective ministers, the Ministry of Defence and the relevant armaments addresses of the Ministry of Defence. The role and assistance of the House must be made more substantial. The House must be given the most openness, with the possibility of deepening the relevant supply contract, which is being worked out, because only in this way can the funds spent on defence, but elsewhere, become contributory to the Greek citizen, as is the case in the other countries of Europe, that is to say, countries where their citizens feel that the taxes they pay a place. The 'black holes' in the budgets of the Ministries is bound by the Parliament, if it respects its institutional role, to close them down. Ladies and gentlemen, the lack of determination in dealing with the bad texts, particularly in this critical economic context that society, by not enduring, is at best unreserved at all, and at worst, it develops anti-parliamentary features, the predicament of transmigrations and populists, is disastrous. If we do not collect the whole way of managing public money, we leave the field open, we create the conditions for tomorrow's preliminary investigations and the eternal repetition of the same pattern of operation of a state permanently in a situation of crisis or bankruptcy. We will be voting in favour of setting up the Special Parliamentary Committee. However, its work will be useful if they serve the law and lead to initiatives that shield the system in order to avoid such scandals in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr. Dannelly. We close the first list of priority speakers with Mr Nikos Nikolaopoulos from the Independent Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u114	Ladies and gentlemen, I am sure you heard today how Yiannis Papantoniou signed contracts of 5.5 billion in 2003. And this is an opportunity for us here today and those who do not remember where these expenditures occurred. Does it mean in the state budget next year, that is, the next government of Kostas Karamanlis? Where were they charged? I think that this is also useful today to hear, finally, how Mr Georgiou, Mr Papandreou's friend, who came from the IMF, calculated the deficits to recalculate them. But the good day since the morning seems. And we saw it. While voting, colleagues from the opposition have already found the reasons to acquit Mr Papantoniou or thus create the first conditions. It couldn't have been different. Didn't we see this again in the other committee of inquiry on the loans of parties and SMEs that they voted on? The entire Greek people saw it. There you thought, if you didn't see who was talking, that he wasn't talking to a MP, that he was speaking rather as an editor, that he was talking to a master, one of those who had taken a "sea-freak". The same thing seems to me to be beginning today. But we are judged by those who see us. Besides, how could - you know - be different? How else can the rapporteurs of Mr Mitsotakis, Mrs Gennamas, be placed? Today, Mr. Mitsotakis chose the day to send a message. He is currently visiting, possibly, Mr Papantoniou's best man, the one whom the right-wing newspaper, today's DIMMOCRATIA, denounces - it is not 'AUGY' or 'DAGUMENTO' - and says, 'Stournaras in the role of lenders for the measures'. Do you think Mr. Mitsotakis was here today just to make the bunny go, too? Who would know? We'll see. But, indeed, what matters is whether Mr. Papantoniou's spiritual child, Mr. Yiannis Stournaras, will speak today, Ministers, with Mr. Mitsotakis, about Mr. Pantalakis' stay. Case, huh? But he'll redeem, he says, the Attica Bank! Come on, Jesus Christ, and Apostle! That's all that can happen here. How do you now understand that, I really can't understand it. And he went there the other day, he says, and he saw Mr. Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u115	We don't get it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u116	You don't understand it either. Fortunately! I was saying, if I don't just get it. So they may talk about it too. This debate, however, involves three very serious political issues. The first is the substance of the case. My colleague from the Central Association just before - as you have heard - reminded everyone of what everyone had said about this matter. Of the six relevant proceedings, all of which concern Mr Papantoniou, there seems to be evidence of a lack of faith in the service, but also of money laundering from criminal activity. Mr. Loverdos asked Mr. Paradise for more in the morning. However, our colleague reminded us that Mr Loverdos has been involved before. So whatever Mr. Loverdos and the others hear, they're not going to understand it very well, Mr. Davakis. But I would certainly expect the New Democracy's party, which Kostas Karamanlis led and spoke about at that time about the "Archbishop of Interlocutory", Kostas Simitis, to be even clearer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u117	I was clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u118	I will not go into complex legal details, but I will confine myself to saying that this is a case that is at the heart of the problem of the creation of political money and the break-up of the wealth of the Greek people. It touches one of the most blackest times in the management of public money, the governance - I repeat - of the Simitis, which - I repeat - was called here by this Step of the House, Kostas Karamanlis, the "Archiper of Interface" and whose orphans Mr.Mitsotakis gathers today. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here, having a specific case that answers the Greek people about where billions went, who took them, who 'they' ate them. The world has a tombstone here, and some of the secret savage savages. Obviously, we didn't all eat together, as the fanatical today Mitsotakus, Thodore Pangalos, once said. My position and position of the Christian Democratic Party is therefore crystal clear: to turn the stolen ones back and to punish the harassers for example. Judiciary files have a large number of adequate indications that the compensatory benefits were used to obtain unfair profits. Parliament is therefore obliged to set up a special parliamentary committee to carry out a preliminary examination. And not only because justice is asking for it, but because that is what the Greek people, the one who has been paying for seven years with his blood and the blood of his children's laundry and stolen. We have a sacred, democratic obligation to establish two and twenty-two committees in order to strike the root of evil. As long as it is not another committee on the spectacle, which in the end will result in different findings, as has happened in previous cases. The second serious political issue that arises today is this: is there still a special parliamentary committee being set up as a diversion - we have heard it say here - or a problem of delaying the evaluation or the new measures required by creditors? Or is it also an offer on the altar of some alleged clearance, for the government to have to say? Of course, over the last few decades, the Greek political system has had such deformations that have dehydrated it from its political substance. But today, in the Papantoniou case, how is it possible, ladies and gentlemen, to sound the same 'pool' and, in fact, when the government - each government - does not table a proposal for a special parliamentary committee following the procedure, which has been brought to Parliament, to denounce a cover-up, but when a special parliamentary committee is calling for ourselves to speak again? Ladies and gentlemen, can we, in these bad times of the memorial glaciers that we live in, show tolerance to the scandalous peculiarity of political power to promote self-interest? But this tolerance created the temperate climate on which a culture of impunity was formed. This trend, of course, was encouraged and strengthened by legal regulations relating to the rapid limitation of the responsibility of the ministers, which was made synonymous with the immunity of the ministers. No tolerance, then. Is there really anyone who believes that citizens cannot separate situations and will not charge the government either to delay the evaluation or to take the new measures if it brings in? Do you think anyone will be spared because a number of special parliamentary committees have been put forward? The third, too, is a very serious issue - perhaps the most serious of all - is, in my view, the notorious law of 'democratics'. You all heard us all agree on that. It is therefore a very good opportunity to reiterate that there is an immediate need for this law to be abolished with the next constitutional review. For the country to emerge from the deep and protracted crisis, however, in which neither half the logs nor spells nor the physiological distribution of responsibilities are enough. The responsibilities must be attributed to specific persons, who have proven themselves to have committed an irregularity and their punishment, both as a deterrent sign of possible imitation in the future, and as a moral proof that one cannot expect to be impunity when his actions and omissions have contributed to the dismantling and bankruptcy of the place. [[Mr DIMITRIOS KRIMASTINOS]] Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to take this opportunity to point out that the irony of history has brought it, at the same time as it is investigating a blatant case of the robbery of public money by the system of the "Archier of Interface" Simitis, which is preoccupied by the then-classical Minister of Yiannos Papantoniou, at the same time - that is why I said, Mr Davakis, who did not understand just before my report - Kyriakos Mitsotakis, instantly announces accession to the ranks of the New Democracy, as a young man of politics, the son of the former Minister Janos Papantoniou. What kind of message is he sending to society? "Don't let Venice lose her needle," said my late mother. But there is another popular saying: "Tell me your friend to tell you who you are." With the child, of course, no one has anything. However, in a sign of solidarity with the new executive, which we have read with an APA, the examinations to be a candidate for parliamentarian membership, does Mr Mitsotakis share his support for the former Minister? Who can convince the simple neo-democrat, Mr Hatzidakis, Mr Vice-President, that he must apologise for all this? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, you left the other speakers 13 minutes. I hope you don't, because I'm saying what I'm saying right now. This political amoralism of the Mitsotakis leadership, which brings our proud base to a position of accountability for the most miserable days of the PASOK governments, especially during the Simitis period, is a chapter that shows that even the self-conservation instinct has been lost, as it seems that the New Democracy leadership cannot understand, these identities of what they are sending out. Ladies and gentlemen, before I come down from the Step, after you realise that we Greek Christian Democrats will vote in favour of the setting up of the special parliamentary committee, I would like to speak on a last point, which concerns the government and, in particular, the Minister for Justice, which today did not consider appropriate - it seems - neither one should be at the whole meeting. Instead of following Mrs. Ryku's case from a distance, they have to ask the Ice Bay Attorney to order today - what are they waiting for this twenty-four hours? - Urgent preliminary examination. We must finally ask the relevant bodies. Mrs Ryku must name those interests that were supposed to have forced her to resign, one by one, with names and addresses, in order to investigate and possibly intervene with the judicial authorities. The position it holds is a crucial one. And it certainly has to say - and with this I am closing - why it did not deliver two and a half thousand pages - it says - from the Papantoniou files Mrs Ryku. Why - if it is true - did not send two hundred and fifty thousand documents on the Papantoniou - Liakunakou case concerning supplies of weapons systems - these were documents seized by the Liakunakos computers, which were not opened, which were not investigated for so long as they were in the Corruption Prosecutor's office - in order to assess their content, which they certified computer experts? Mr President, thank you for your tolerance. I am asking questions about the hints I have made, about those colleagues who might want to cross-check the accuracy of my points from the Step. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u119	Mrs Kozobol - Amanatidis, Member of the SYRIZA, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr President. The adventure and the deep crisis that has shaken our country over recent years is irrelevant to the subject of today's sitting. On the contrary, the armaments on the governance of Simitis - PASOK - and not only - increased public debt and at the same time increased the wealth of various diverse and corrupt politicians, advisers, mediators and others. I would point out that the need for defence equipment is self-evident, as long as there is a measure, transparency, planning of feasibility, utility and necessity. Not freshmen who are leaning on and useless weapons, no misery, corruption and the enrichment of the eagles with public money. The case of the six related proceedings, involving Mr. Papantoniou, is part of the great corruption party of the era of Seiti government. It follows the associated Chohazopoulou case - Sbokos and others. It is related to huge damage or risk of damage to the Greek public and to the benefit of diligent mediators and others. I shall refer to something that has been said several times in this Chamber by Members of the New Democracy. Mr Athanasios likes to invoke this point, namely that after the report by GRECO - a group of anti-corruption states - in 2009-2010, in which a great deal of corruption was found in our country, such initiatives have been taken and the position of our country has improved in the European classification of corruption. ‘That this improvement was lost during the two years of our country's governance by the present government and on that ranking, our country retreated. But that's half the truth. Why? Because the current government and the Prime Minister are doing what they have promised to do to the citizens. To shed plenty of light on the dark assumptions of the sinful past. These are the cases that open up and changed our country's virtual image of corruption. So it throws plenty of light, unendingly fighting corruption and attempts to shield our country from such phenomena. See Constitutional revision. Compliance with these commitments means that no completely sinful case is hidden, that it is in need of investigation and that the legal consequences are followed. The other half, therefore, says that there has never been an improvement in our country's position on anti-corruption issues. Just, some who thought they would rule eternally, take care to hide dark cases and pretend to be indestructible. But the cases of the sinful past are here and they are not hiding under the carpet, to pretend that no one has looted this country, that she was alone in bankruptcy and that there is no corruption. The impunity of the PASOK and New Democracy ministers involved in corruption scandals, due to the scandalously short-out of offences, does not mention their political responsibilities. Furthermore, it calls for the immediate change in the legislation on the responsibility of the ministers to put an end to impunity and demonstrates the great responsibility of all those who have proposed or tolerated this unacceptable impunity. Of the six relevant proceedings, which were forwarded to Parliament - and here I note that there was no delay in the Ministry of Justice for their transmission to Parliament - they were forwarded without delay to Parliament, and Parliament was also waiting for the sixth case-file to promote them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u121	There's no delay.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u122	Of course, there is no delay.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u123	The sixth...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u124	All in 2016, Mr Davaki, have been sent to the Ministry of Justice and then to the parliament. Don't eat my time, though. It is therefore apparent from the six procedural documents that Mr Papantoniou was assigned to him, with relative prophecies, acts of infidelity, from which great financial damage was suffered by the Greek State. Of course, the crime of infidelity has been banned because of the special regime governing those who have been or are members of government, such as Mr Papantoniou. However, as it has also been decided case-law, the limitation of the main crime does not preclude the punishment of the person responsible for money laundering resulting from the ‘registered’ basic act. In addition, the Prosecutor's case-file sent them for investigation, the competent public prosecutors. It is therefore necessary to set up a special parliamentary committee for Mr Papantoniou to investigate, above all, any crime of money laundering, which is a constant crime and therefore unreserved. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a moment, please, and I shall conclude, Mr President. Thank you. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The Special Parliamentary Committee shall establish any evidence of guilt, observing the presumption of innocence and the principles of fair trial. Mr Papantoniou had to pursue the investigation in order to prove his innocence. For this reason, which has caused an alpine impression - a sad surprise, I will say - the memorial sent to the Members by Mr Papantoniou, claiming that the special parliamentary committee was set up with a view to bringing him to bear and covering the deadlock of the government's policy of targeting PASOK, a argument which was repeated by other previous Members. Because I endorse the proposal to set up the special parliamentary committee, the performance of purposes is deeply insulting me. This is slander and not investigating the truth. So to stop Mr Papantoniou conceiving purposes, since he has nothing to fear. Let the work of the special parliamentary committee facilitate. There is no choice but to shine the truth and to render justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mrs. Kozobol. New Democracy MP Mr Tasoulas has the floor for five minutes. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u126	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the setting-up of a special parliamentary committee to carry out a preliminary inquiry into the equipment programmes of the period 2001-2004, is intended, in the proposal of the Members who sign it, to deliver criminal responsibilities. And it is interesting and comforting that the ruling majority should seek justice. However, at the same time as the majority desires to render justice, the Prosecutor against Corruption, Ms. Rykeu, resigns from her post, denounced efforts to moralize the extermination and degradation of her research. At the same time, the Association of Judges and Prosecutors, the natural judge, as it is represented, is issuing a communication - at the same time as you are seeking justice - which reminds us that judges and prosecutors, to whom we will send the conclusion of the special parliamentary committee that we are going to set up, have asked many times - today, not the day before - for adequate and effective institutional protection for judges and prosecutors, to do their duty. "The taking-up of the relevant initiative to discuss the problem and find a solution to the lack of institutional protection for judges, now belongs to the political authority, which must now be activated. The contribution of the Association of Judges and Prosecutors - the communication concludes - must be seen as a given". No matter how much one shareholder of the prevalent suspicion, he can account for hypocrisy and other motives - politically, partyly - in the timing of this proposal with the more general political developments in the country. At this time, in addition to hypocrisy, which is demonstrated by the outrage of the judiciary officials who are seeking protection, in order to do their job, we have a homogeneous diversion of what is going to happen and which is a tough agreement, as a price of failed negotiation with our lenders. In this heterogeneity of diversions is health exam, armaments examination, as well as the constitutional review, which was posted yesterday and roamed across all areas of the Territory, apart from the area where it has an institutional position, namely the National Representation. So in the constitutional review, which has been added to this retreat of unrest, in which, among other things, you are proposing referendums day by day, you are suggesting the resumption of neoliberalism. Beware, you have in the Constitution no neoliberalism, you have in the Constitution the military trade and you ask the citizens, in addition, whether the military must also strike. So, at the time when all this is done, how can an objective and good guy consider that you are really interested in rendering justice? However, the New Democracy, as he has said, will co-operate and take part in this, ignoring or rather combating your motives and trying with its role, its vote and its participation to highlight the truth - and the essential truth and the procedural truth which will obviously be formulated not by today's debate, but ultimately by the judiciary, which will respond adequately to all the procedural or substantive legal issues raised. You say in the introduction of your proposal - and I would like to stress this - that the equipment programmes have always been a source of corruption. It wasn't always like that. It wasn't always like that, with scandals, with suspicions and an outcry. And I'm telling you... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I ask for your tolerance for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u127	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u128	I tell you a clear case, which would be unheard of today, to explain to you at what time we have to return, not in the sense of nostalgia, but in the sense of repeating another climate that is missing from the country. They weren't always the source of corruption. Sophocles Venizelos was a son of Prime Minister. He had fought as captain in Scra. He was elected MP in the November 1920 elections in Chania, resigned from the army and from 1923 until the end of 1930 he was a military follower in Paris, with the Prime Minister's father. Sophocles Venizelos, the son of Prime Minister, was the first to take the lead in Paris in the purchase of warplanes, six, on the order of the Gonata government in 1923. It was six planes of type 14A2 Lui Bringe with the appropriate machine guns and spare parts. He was leading the market for four hundred sixty - eight guns, one thousand eighty - four guns, six thousand guns and twenty - five thousand rifles. He helped, in this way, when his father negotiated peace after World War I, to have Greece a strong air force and a powerful army, the Army of Evros, to reach a better deal. There was no one, despite the national division, despite its political role later, accused by the Prime Minister's son, who was a compulsive follower and made military orders. Other seasons? Any other personalities? Another climate? Other Greece? Perhaps, but I prefer a thousand times that attitude, that of Greece, those principles and values from Greece, which are now being dragged into the gutter either of corruption or of slander. Although it is wrong to see corruption from slander, because slander is corruption too. We contribute to the establishment of this committee and we will try to keep it away from your proud motives, to achieve, through this committee, a homogenous distraction to the Greek people for the difficult things they expect him to do from the failed negotiation. The Prime Minister's presence yesterday in the Memorandum of Beloganne is also part of this junior diversion. [[At this point, the end of the speaker's speaking time bell is being ringed.]] It's been heard here...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u129	You're welcome, Mr. Tasoula.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u130	I shall conclude, Mr President. There are other orders in this country. It's not just the Left in this country. There are other orders. It has been heard here that Belogannis has fought for democracy. I disagree! Belogan's death was cruel. The death penalty is a cruel act, but it cannot be in the name of a cruel act, which one can judge whether it was unfair or fair, to think that the pursuit of a communist dictatorship is an act in favour of democracy. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] If it had prevailed...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u131	Is this the New Democracy's view?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u132	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u133	Is that your European orientation?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u134	You're welcome, Mr. Tasoula.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u135	If the other party had been in our country, I would not have been allowed to say that, but I would not have been allowed to think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u136	I would like to ask that the debate focuses on this issue and not on everything. There is no discussion at all today. Mr Papaphippipou, Member of the SYRIZA, has the floor. I hope, Mr Papaphippipou, that you will be confined to this subject so that it does not begin an endless debate on every subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u137	I believe that too, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take note of what the previous speaker said, which was particularly anti-communism, as well as of the vast diversion that they are seeking with our proposal today, because it is entirely based on novels which have nothing to do with reality and I will explain why. It is a common admission to the Greek society that the corruption of state structures and people in our country had taken enormous proportions before the Greek government took over from SYRIZA and ANEL. Corruption is one of the main causes of our country's bankruptcy, since huge sums of money, which came from the trouble and sweat of the Greek people, have literally been looted, because instead of being made available for real development and supply of reliable and reputable weapons systems, they have been made available for the illegal and scandalous enrichment of persons and, indeed, for politicians. Our country's equipment programmes have always been a source of risks to the corruption of state structures and politicians. A characteristic example is our proposal today to set up the special parliamentary committee, the pre-examination committee, that is to say, to carry out a preliminary examination of six relevant criminal proceedings, transmitted to Parliament and all related to contracts for armaments in our country during the period 2001-2004, that was, during the period, Minister of National Defence Mr.Giannis Papantoniou, for which there is evidence that there are serious signs of the execution of acts of malicious infidelity, from which great financial damage was caused by the Greek public. It is estimated that this damage amounts to a few hundred million. In fact, in one of these cases, according to the relevant criminal case-law, there is also evidence that crime of money laundering is being committed in addition. The question of our country's armaments programmes and huge corruption on this occasion has strongly dealt with the public opinion and the political area of our country in the past. It is also a dispersed sense of the covertness of the responsibilities of political people and of the continuity of the credibility of the political system. Our party, together with the ANELs, with all the Members of their parliamentary groups, has made a commitment to examining all cases of corruption, which led our country to bankruptcy, tabled the proposal under discussion today, effectively implementing the mandate - the demand of society for justice, transparency and the return of criminal responsibility to them, including those who have plunged their fingers into honey and contributed to the bankruptcy of our country. Of course, the return of criminal responsibilities to this political person is seriously shattered by the existing institutional framework - Article 86(3) of the Constitution, namely the Law on the Responsibility of Ministers - since the criminal - because of the limitation - of the crime of felony infidelity, which Mr Papantoniou may have committed, has been eliminated. For the existing institutional framework, however, which actually leads to the impunity of the political people, who by their actions and omissions in the posting of their duties caused enormous damage to the Greek State, bear a huge responsibility for the parties that ruled our country before SYRIZA. And rightly, he has gathered critical remarks because of his particular treatment in this category of citizens, both from the legal world and from society. For this reason, it is timely as never before for our party's proposal to change the above institutional framework with the revision of Article 86 of the Constitution to deal with these cases from regular criminal justice. I must stress, however, that the work of the Special Parliamentary Committee will not be without purpose, since there are indications that the offence of money laundering has also been committed in more ways, as described in the relevant provisions of the relevant law, which must be investigated. The basis for the existence of these indications and their thorough investigation are the following cases: The fact that they are written down on his or her bank depository lists related to him or her with a large amount of money of EUR 1.3 million - and that the Minister himself has been convicted of a false statement from where he was in 2009 with an irrevocable decision. To conclude, it is necessary to stress the following which concern the lawmakers in this House. Firstly, the crime of washing dirty money, which is a felony, is lasting. That is to say, its completion is continuing and it is not a matter of limitation before the expiry of its term. Secondly, there is a real influx between the previous basic crime - committed by the former Minister, in other words, the infidelity - and perhaps the subsequent crime - of dirty money laundering committed by him, in the sense of the legalisation of that benefit by infidelity. Ladies and gentlemen, please call on all of us to vote on our proposal, without prudence and without you, of what you say, to disorientate the purpose for which we have actually tabled our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u138	Mr Christos Pappas, Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to say that hypocrisy is more than the previous speaker of the Memorandum 'fake-right', the New Democracy, which said about Beloganne. I would like to remind them that you were the ones who ordered the army and the Greek camps and the public to wave about the flags when Captain Yiotis died. These are to avoid fishing in truly Greek and transparent waters. You can't be with the policeman and the policeman! Pick with who you are! I would also remind you that you have colluded with the JRC. Mr President, I am entering this issue. The proposal concerns the former Minister of Defence, Mr Giannos Papantoniou, a pillarer of the semantic establishment, the state that plundered the country, the state that involved the country in the euro monetary union with false figures, resulting in the catastrophic results of today's Memorandum. The case concerns equipment, which is another pathogenous of the post-government governments from 1974 to today. The first meetings that, unfortunately, come to mind when the word is spoken, are the following: Misses, stealing, remulsions, purchases of weapons systems without contests, overpricings and all of this. However, when the word is heard by special parliamentary committees, the gatherings are: the reasons for impressions, no results, no cover and a hood. And as you propose committees, on the other hand, the Turkish challenge is constantly growing. In the case of Papantoniou, why, Mr. Co-government Ministers, should the responsibilities be attributed only to one? So, one person only carried out acts that were harming the public? Wasn't there a political coverage? Wasn't there a CFD that made firearms decisions? So, Papantoniou for what he did - if he did, and finally examined, not to be examined - did he not have the cover of the rest of the HSY, did he not have the cover of Simitis, who actually decided and the others were just implementing? Finally - and the question is addressed to everyone in plenary, on every side - since 1974 only two have been ministers of national defence. Chohatzopoulos and Papantoniou? The others? At the Ministry of National Defence, it became the millions that Simitis had said to testify to the Tsohatzopoulou case. He also said that for what those who sit on the stand do not know anything about it. Who said that? The Prime Minister, the president of the KYSEA! We sit here and talk about committees. Do some people ultimately aim to deceive, to disorientate Greek public opinion with proposals for committee recommendations? On the other hand, the same people will stress the need for a new armaments programme of the Greek Armed Forces, which, although there should be, will still be the known interests and circles, as well as the various heterogeneous ones. The overall philosophy, ladies and gentlemen, around armaments should finally change in total. For us, this proposal by SYRIZA - ANEL is characterised as completely hypocritical and disorientative, because the responsibilities of this government are enormous, which, like previous gala-green conflicts, brought to bear on the unreasonable economic problems caused by the failed Memorandum policy - the continuation of which is worthy of the previous Memorandum of Understanding - continues with the tradition of national sovereignty in the Turks, which are now threatening Greece openly and is simply a matter of time for the implementation of their plans and threats. You have brought in and opened with the policy of open borders, and the ethnic composition of our country with millions of illegal immigrants entering the country is now faded, without the consent and will of the Greek people, without the Greek people believing that these people should be integrated, they should receive Greek citizenship. Where and where? And you will give a vote to all the tribes of Israel, so that the Left will rule in the penitentiary. We therefore have the systematic undermining of the future existence and survival of the Greek nation and of the country itself, which you are carrying out by stopping racial continuity, minimizing the creation of new generations and, at the same time, divesting the country's rich production potential, namely land, subsoil, sea and underwater energy sources, as well as private and public infrastructure. The Golden Dawn People's Association has been in a consistent position and demand since the first day we entered the Greek Parliament in 2012, we have stressed in every direction the immediate abolition of the legal abortion, called the law on the responsibility of Ministers and the performance of all responsibilities on political persons. Instead, you bring forward a proposal and say about the delayed promotion of relevant cases in justice and about the determination in practice of the failure to perform justice, because of the 'dauntly anticipated delaying', as I read. Why have you not abolished or amended the scandalous deadlines for two years? So many drafts of law you bring here every day every week. You have made an amendment industry and you have raised the amendments to science. How many times have you voted in favour of the lifting of immunity from any Member, not only of the government, but of all the opposition parties, but of the Golden Dawn? So what delay is this educational coexistence now referred to and to what failure to perform justice? Finally, the proposal of the co-government is now hypocritical and disorientative, as I said in support of my claim, when yesterday's draft proposal for the constitutional review was published in the party paper of SYRIZA, "AGE". According to this post, written by Mr. Christoforos Vernardakis, Andreas Dimitriopoulos, Kostas Zoras, Ilias Nikolaopoulos and Constantine Chryssogonos, both the law on the liability of Ministers and the parliamentary immunity are maintained as they stand. The extent of your affliction, the scale of the enmity of the Greek people, is again revealed. You're really political crooks. On the one hand, you are saying that you are setting up committees to give justice, and on the other you are accusing of the existence of this law on the liability of political persons as an insurmountable impediment to its timely and complete performance and on the other hand, you are directly proposing that this law remain. Ladies and gentlemen, the Golden Dawn entered the Greek Parliament solely in the interests of the Greek people, from whom it has been instructed to do anything to clear this vagina from the public life of the country. Golden Dawn's position is to prosecute all political persons who have proved to be harming the interests of the countryside and their placement where they belong: in prison! That's what we've said since 2012, and that's what we've been talking about. And that's why the people are voting for us. The thieves in prison, the stolen ones being returned to the Greek people! Here is one of the reasons for our persecutions and our imprisonment by decision of previous Co-government and with the agreement of all the anti-popular and clipping arch. Mr President, although we agree to the setting-up of the special parliamentary committee, we are sure that once again this committee, like the others who have done so far, will be nothing but the continuation of the cover-up of all these scandals with the blessing of all of you, with the blessing of the constitutional arch, since no real responsibility will be attached to Mr Giannos Papantoniou, who, after all, has already been relieved of all responsibilities with the treacherous law on the responsibility of ministers. But be sure that the Golden Dawn, with its place in this political and time period, will not stop stigmatizing the crimes committed by all governments from 1974 until today. And you can be certain that the time will come and this blessed hour will not be long, that the National Government will deliver Caesar Caesar's. Golden Dawn: The people in power and thieves in prison!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u140	We continue with the next speaker, SYRIZA MP, Mr Choga. Mr. Choga, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating the joint motion for a resolution by the SYRIZA and ANEL Parliamentary Groups, which deals mainly with the equipment programmes for the period 2001 to 2004, thus implementing a relied upon by SYRIZA to the political task of society. Ladies and gentlemen, the coexistence of politics with morality has been considered and may still be considered by many utopian ones. But, politically speaking, in every historical period, there has always been a system of values and rules that defined the behavior of political subjects and acted in the sight of an informal moratorium guaranteeing the applicable political practices and decisions of the state, whose disregard always meant the activation of its legal reflexes, followed by Nemesis, so the situation balanced. This riddle is called upon to resolve the setting-up of the special parliamentary committee with a view to carrying out a preliminary examination, that is to say, if the legal basis in the case of the former Minister, Mr Ioannis Papantoniou, is exceeded, in order to diagnose any fraudulent option and - if possible - the existence, but also the degree of his wrongdoing for the offences described in the six motions forwarded to the House, to which they are attributed with the relevant fraudulent acts of infidelity and as a result of serious financial damage to the public. So it will shed plenty of light on the dark paths of our modern political history. In accordance with paragraph 2 of Article 86 of the Constitution, prosecution, interrogation, pre-examination or preliminary examination of the persons for the offences referred to in paragraph 1 of that Article, i.e. those who have, or have been, a member of the Government or State Secretary for criminal offences committed in the course of their duties, shall not be allowed without prior decision of the Parliament, in accordance with paragraph 3, and in paragraph 3, the Parliament may exercise its powers until the end of the second regular session of the parliamentary term which starts after the offence has been committed. In this way, the current Constitution of our country and Law No.3126/2003, the well-known Law on the liability of Ministers, reserves special treatment in the category of these citizens, but in fact they introduce a peculiar veto, since the short deadline imposed by the law on prosecution generally leads to the limitation of offences, and it has been shown that there have been cases - and recently - where the Parliament has deliberately been dismantled so that certain offences can be dropped. However, in the pre-pillar constitutional revision, this anti-discrimination will be abolished and the special treatment of these politicians is expected to be abolished. In this light, it is necessary to investigate the programmes and the corresponding agreements concerning the supply of armaments systems during the period when Mr Papantoniou served as Minister of National Defence and to provide the necessary explanations and clarifications regarding the arguments put forward in our judgment six procedural proceedings, according to which there are indications that the former Minister has committed an offence of infidelity relating to the service in 2001-2004, whereas one of them is evidence that the money laundering offence has been committed by professional and continuous means, bearing in mind that three sentences have already been issued against the three sentences, an irrevocable sum of 1,3 billion euros in the name of his wife and a penalty of four years and of the wife, now that the famous list of Lagard mentions an amount of 1,3 billion euros in the name of his wife. In particular, our proposal concerns the following procedures: the supply of a hundred and seventy Leopard tanks following an agreement by the Ministry of Defence at an agreed price of EUR 1,659 billion; the activation of an agreement for the purchase of 12 helicopters Apache; the contract for the modernisation of type S wells with a total value of about EUR 381 million; the contract value of about EUR 72 million by the Greek State with the company 'SONAK SA'; and finally, the case of twenty transport helicopters of type NH90 at a price of about 657 million, which allegedly has never been executed, such as these, the rest, which are specialising in our specific proposal. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just give me one more minute, Mr President, please. Thus, according to the arguments presented to the House, and with these actions, there was a significant financial loss to the Greek public of many hundreds of euros. And Mr Papantoniou seems to have participated in a number of criminal acts of self-infidelity against the public and possibly money laundering. In addition, in the investigation of money laundering, where there is evidence of a benefit to be derived from the act of basic crime - in the case of infidelity - the extension and adoption of an investigation into money laundering is one-way and independent of the criminal dimension of the crime, that is to say, it is enough to commit infidelity alone. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say this: ladies and gentlemen, because on the basis of the above elements of the motions for resolutions passed on to Parliament, there is evidence that both the offence of infidelity, relating to the service, whether or not there is a deplorable existence, and that money laundering is a permanent crime within the meaning of the law, and therefore unsuccessful limitations before the end of their term, I would urge you to vote in favour of the SYRIZA ANEL proposal. Not only is it necessary, but it is also necessary to set up the proposed special parliamentary committee on the possibility that the crimes mentioned and included in the documents of the Ministers for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights will have to be committed to dealing with acts of corruption with justice and transparency in the exercise of the responsibilities of those who are actually responsible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, too. Mr. Treasury, Member of the New Republic, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the proposal of the SYRIZA government co-existence - ANEL for the setting up of a special parliamentary committee, with a view to carrying out a preliminary examination of the contracts of armaments which were signed under the office of Mr Giannis Papantoniou at the Ministry of National Defence. Let's start with the obvious. The New Democracy always supports, as our President Kyriakos Mitsotakis has repeatedly said, that everything must come to light, nothing remains hidden, that there are no shadows that poison the country's political life and at the same time create the legitimate feeling of citizens. In particular, we must all be sensitive to corruption and interlocutory issues and not give rise to scandals. On the other hand, of course, I must point out that the fact that you have suddenly begun to move into the constellation of the pre-review committees is, of course, not an accident. Your late interest in the events of the past government has nothing to do with the deadlock you are in because of your wrong policies in key problems facing the Greek state and the Greek people. One of these is, of course, the closure of the evaluation. You are trying to change the agenda, believing that the world will be taken away from Scandalology and will forget the difficulties it is going through, of course, with its own responsibilities. Do not deceive that such initiatives can form your own swimming pool to rinse out the sins of your wrong government. Corruption feeds on the weakness of the political system. He's penetrating his cracks. He finds shelter in his mechanisms. It is unfortunately supported by the lack of institutions and impunity. More specifically, for corruption linked to the supply of the Armed Forces, we need to be concerned about when it started to develop. Is it from the time that the competence to select and purchase equipment was removed from the General Staff and was given in 1995 to the newly adopted Directorate-General for Defence equipment? Of course I still ask today the members of the Armed Forces whether they are in the reserve or in the energy reserve, because in the past we have not had any problems of corruption in the area of the Armed Forces. Didn't we have any equipment? Didn't that apply? Did we have a war material market and not just? Of course everyone is telling me that the problem began in the mid-1990s. The result is to monitor cases such as the convicted former Minister of National Defence, who served as the Directorate-General for Defence Equipment, as was then written in the newspapers, with persons of his own choice. The unreliability of this address has therefore been proven for years. The next bold but necessary step to be taken is to abolish or replace a new model of procurement, which will promote the sustainability of the Armed Forces and operate under full transparency and public control. This new model will also develop synergies with the Greek martial industry, which we must strengthen and which you have neglected, not least your relevant promises to the committees, but also to the plenary. By exploiting domestic defence production, we will benefit both from the use of the exceptional staff available to our defence industries and at economic level. On the other hand, however, we must stand up to the existing legislative framework that deals with leniency as regards the exercise of criminal prosecutions of those who have been or are members of a government. This fact, of course, is not just my point, but has also been widely criticised by the citizens, but also by the actors in public life in the country, but also by justice itself. I think, therefore, that the conditions have matured for a radical change in the legislative framework governing the criminal prosecution system and, in general, the administration of justice to political persons. And this can be done through the radical change of Article 86 in the forthcoming constitutional review. Regular justice, with the morality of judges and prosecutors, can be the guarantee of the prosecution and of ministers, as is the case with other Greek citizens. To conclude, as I pointed out at the beginning of my speech, the New Democracy is in favour of setting up a special parliamentary committee for possible offences on the part of Mr Papantoniou when he was Minister of National Defence. The New Democracy remains faithful to the quadruple 'transparency, protection of public money, protection of the status of the Armed Forces, protection of the parliamentary process and, above all, the administration of justice'. We have no commitment to anyone. We're not protecting anyone. And as a Qualified Opposition, we respect institutions. We want to shed plenty of light on the case. We will examine the evidence available, the criminal proceedings forwarded to Parliament and then judge, on the basis of the evidence, whether or not the relevant criminal prosecution should be initiated. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u144	Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u145	I hope that the committee will stand up to the circumstances, produce essential work, judge unbiasedly, draw a joint conclusion, as imposed on a Parliament. And I think that society can't stand another misplaced political performance, whose elements of unspeakable populism must not dominate in this Chamber and, above all, in the committee which will be formed. Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theory, since they have previously participated in the educational programme for Kapodistrias organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty students and students and two educational attendants from the 12th Gymnasium of Kallitheas. The House, guys, welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] And we proceed with the next speaker, Mr Karagiannides, MP of SYRIZA. Please, Mr Karayannides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a talk and in the face of a cassette, the opposition side repeats the same argument. This special parliamentary committee is set up to disorientate the world. Good. It has been answered by SYRIZA's colleagues, both legal and political. We are interested in specific questions and issues arising from this special parliamentary committee, in addition to the responsibilities of Mr Papantoniou or not. So we - and I imagine it will be interesting - to find out about the hidden borrowings that took place in the eight-year period 1996-2004. And what do I mean? There was a way of secret lending for equipment: There were offshore companies, which were issued on behalf of the Greek public debts, collecting the sums required and paying the suppliers, but without these costs being directly charged to the state budget and thus being recorded as debt. With this logic, Mr Papantoniou, as Minister of National Defence, in 2001 he tells the House in the budget debate that with the reduction of debt interest, there would be a surplus of up to 1 trillion drachmas per year and we would have reached a surplus of 10 trillion in 2010. You know where we got in 2010, don't you? It is for this reason that he obviously became President of the Institute for Progressive Policy, as he has signed us in the letter he sent us. The second is this: We are interested in knowing whether the National Statistical Office of Greece and the Ministry of Finance have not been receiving from 1997 onwards the receipts of military material, so they did not record and did not know what our debts were? We therefore ask that we also learn such things from the special parliamentary committee. We will, for example, learn from what perspective and with what strategy were these markets going on? We were buying armaments without defensive specifications, without synergy between them and each other, without being subject to a dogma military that we would know. The minister was just getting into a supermarket of military materials, giving him or not giving him anything more and preferring the alpha or beta or the fuck. In these six procedural documents, therefore, a name is constantly displayed: Mr Papantoniou. We're also asking to know if he has responsibilities or if he doesn't. There are also non-political persons who have been almost all of our equipment since 1996. Let me say a name. For example, Mr. Liakunakos. They're everywhere. And why did we implement such programmes, which were not immediately transnational agreements, and these middlemen should always be there? How did people who were private employees or I don't know what else, manage billions of money? That's what we want to know. How these equipment programs were made. And let the world know and hear that between 1996 and 2004 we launched the cost of armaments, resulting in 2002-2003, if my memory doesn't cheat on me, to get to the world first with 4,6 to 4,7. To reach out to any other country with any other defensive needs. One more thing. There's something inside the judiciary that I think is comic-tragic, funny. The AOs, the Compensatory Benefits, would be 250 percent of the price we would buy the Leopards. In other words, those who gave us the Leopards said to us: "You will give money and you will get 250% back to the money you gave". And they signed this, Ministers. Do you think this thing would ever happen? So, where we're going to pay to get something, we're going to win 150% on it? Aren't we supposed to find out about this? Should we not know about electronic war machines, the budget of which was 72 million and gave 43 million and we have nothing? Nothing, though, we don't have one. We gave 43 million and we don't have anything! Shouldn't we know about the C4I, for which we shut up millions of eloquent Olympiads, and do not use it? Aren't we gonna know about the NH90 helicopters, of which we've taken half, and have we given twice the price? Aren't they interested in the Greek people? Do we disorientate him? If it's bothering us, I'll figure out that it's bothering us to go through these things. And the Opposition appears not to want us to run away. However, we have said this in the election that specific things are going to run away, because the cost of the eight-year period is 51 billion for armaments. I'm telling you, 51 billion. Along with Olympiad and the Stock Exchange, the gold eight years is the one that began to sink the ship and then the New Democracy gave him one and went there. But don't we know this? What led us to this thing? Where did we get our loan? How did we get in the strong Greece of EMU with false evidence? Should we not know that Mr Simitis was cooking numbers and making false statements, that we did not make money for the equipment projects or EUROSTAT? So not all of this. Well, we'll find out all this and much more. And every scoundrel has no responsibility to sit on his bench. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u148	Mr. Rabbit, Member of the Golden Dawn, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, Mr President. So we have come here today to discuss whether a special parliamentary committee is to be set up to discuss and see whether there is a responsibility from the former Minister, Mr Papantoniou, for the scandals that have been done and for the money and for the hatreds that have been made and for the money that have been extinct from the Greek state. However, before we begin to discuss this, and of course the previous Members of the Golden Dawn Parliament, like our parliamentary representative, have said clearly that we are of course in favour of the special parliamentary committee - we are not discussing it - with just one disagreement. Why should these offences be dealt with here at the moment, if the Minister is involved, and if the issue of passive bribery is not dealt with? We would also like that to be in the categories that exist. But what is the matter here? That there will never be a special parliamentary committee to which we will actually want to look and find out what the truth is. It is a special parliamentary committee which will take place, we will discuss and we know very well that, while all parties will make some of their own findings, at the end of the day, they will all agree that there is nothing and that no one should be prosecuted. Because that is what we learned in the Greek Parliament that this is happening. And it is no coincidence that some time ago we were discussing in another special parliamentary committee with a huge interest in the media scandals that they had taken and the parties for money that they took, that went to pockets that disappeared from the Greek banks, which have never returned or returned. These sums, however, are paid by the Greek people through the recapitalisation of the banks and the guilty ones who took them did not give them or give them back. So there are hundreds of examples of this, and I do not have time to mention them now. I will only mention the last one that is relevant to the special parliamentary committee on the media, for the maritime loans of the parties. At the end of the conclusion, therefore, the conclusion was that there were irregularities, but no political person is involved in them. Listen here - if possible - what we're talking about. What an old man in this Chamber. The MPs of all the parties were found to discuss the money that has proved to be extinct and have gone into pockets of certain people, great-working, big-canal rulers, and all the MPs decided that no political person is involved. The dishonesty and the stealing were done by others. The ones who were going out of this Chamber, but not the ones who were in this Chamber. And when you accidentally missed some of the original pages that were given us that also for Stournara in the original plan had escaped the conclusion of a paragraph and said that there were criminal responsibilities, due to the deletion of certain fines and tax collectors in favour of "Motor Oil", even then in the corrected form that came to us in the finding, you deleted this piece and took Stournara innocent. No guilty one. Nobody! No-one guilty of all this rotten and corrupt political system which has levelled our country over the last forty-five years. Nobody! It was others' fault. But who else? It wasn't even big bankers. Others in general and vaguely. This is the political system you have. Here we have to say that of course most parties will agree to this special parliamentary committee, because you all know that in the end there is no one guilty, so you will be forsaken to the Greek people - those who are still convinced, because most of you are no longer convinced - as honest people who are looking to find the truth and justify the scandals that have been done, but knowing that what we are talking about today is to spend the time. We've been here to participate in a shadow theater. We'll have another conversation, there'll be supposedly verbal controversy, the left will be supposed to say his own and the centre and the right one, and at the end we'll all decide that there's nothing wrong and you'll go and have coffee in the Cup of the House all happily and hugged, because you're a company. And what you are saying is that you are the constitutional arch and we are a separate part, it is true, because we are the only ones who say that Article 86 on the responsibility of Ministers or rather on the non-responsibility of Ministers must be abolished, because it is not possible in Article 4 of the Constitution to say that all Greek citizens are equal to the law, but that there is Article 86 which says that the Minister has no responsibility whatsoever. Because that's what's in the Greek Parliament. So tell me how it is possible after forty-five years of scandals that have been done, that nobody is to blame! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Allow me for one more minute, Mr President. Here I would like to stress that it is incomprehensible for young children that Chohatzopoulou, who is in prison, is responsible for the Papantoniou - and that will be dealt with - and there are many other ministers responsible, but there is no responsibility for the CSCE, and it is not the CSCE who is the head of the CSCE, the then Prime Minister, the 'arch of corruption', according to the then official opposition, Kostas Simitis, for the scandals he has done and not only for the armaments but also for the way in which Greece entered the euro, for the way in which theft of the Exchange was made, for the way in which PASOK had been conducted. So it is not this "archisan of interlocutory", it is not this "archilos" that dares and appears now, after some years to be forgotten and begins to say his own and to make the factor in Greece and in Greek political life, but it is because some forgotten people are torn apart and burden them only those who, of course, have to pay and be punished, but others have to pay. I wanted to say a lot, but time is very limited. I will only stand up to a revulsion of the conversation a little while ago of a New Democracy MP who dared to criticise the Left for this disgrace with the home of Beloganne, which we held a museum, which bears a great share of responsibility for the massacre in Melilla, where children and women had been slaughtered. This man - and those who do not know, let them know - had been convicted of treason against our country for treason in favour of the Soviet Union. So that's who you present to him as a hero. But you leftovers do well. It's your right. But for the New Democracy it is terrible for her to speak. I've urged them not to do such things sometimes, because they put their fingers on them and they take their eyes off. They cannot speak of Belogannis, because, as Christos Papapas said quite rightly, when the other slaughterer of Hellenism died, Charilaos Florakis, New Democracy had asked for the flags to be waved between the police stations and the camps of our country. This is the New Democracy, which has colluded with the KIC, which has accepted all the KIC's scandals, which has laundered all these years. So the New Democracy would do well not to talk about Thrace, about what had happened, because we told them here that its MPs and its citizens were talking about a Turkish minority in Thrace a few days ago. And we tell them not to talk about the scandals and shames of the left. And if some Members of the New Democracy have nationalist positions and nationalist views, to put them first of all with their party, to clarify this dirt that exists there and bring justice to what is happening.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u150	I also told Mr Tasoula - and I would ask everyone - that it is good not to speak at all in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and to limit ourselves to the subject, because a debate is triggered and the House is diverted into other issues, which are not the responsibility of the House at the end of the day. We move on to the next speaker, SYRIZA MP, Mr. Dritsa. Please, Mr. Dritsa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, Mr President, for giving me the floor. I agree that every sitting of the House should focus on the issue that exists. But when such issues are opened, one cannot be silent. New Democracy MP Mr Tasoulas earlier justified and confirmed the death sentence and execution of Nikos Belogannis. And it was applauded for that by the New Democracy. Mr. Tasoulus has well-known opinions and he has the courage to give his opinion and he says them reluctantly. But, after so many decades, can the post-war state, at a time when this important initiative of the Greek Parliament and the President of Nikos Voutsis and the Greek Government, which goes beyond the limits of a party and a party, be justified? Who can blame the Left for splitting? I am not talking about the political representation of the dosing. But can the New Democracy applaud such attitudes, criticisms and views? It's sad. On our point, the Democratic Assent denounces the SYRIZA Members' initiative and ANEL diversion and selective criminalisation. For guarantees, the New Democracy warns us that it will not allow us to provoke ourselves to the appropriateness through this initiative. But at the end of the day, everyone approves it. They say that this special parliamentary committee should be set up. Yes, but is there a parliament's right not to go ahead with it? There are six procedural proceedings, ladies and gentlemen, in active, outdated, non-political protests, with non-political persons who have been accused, but who have, for many years, - beyond the period 2001-2004 - close political ties with political spaces and political persons. That is why the investigation procedure sends the six procedural documents to the House. And there the House has no right to not set up a special parliamentary committee and not to investigate any responsibilities - and criminal - of the political leaders of that period, of the people who are being persecuted and accused of them. In the face of this very obvious and self-evident, we are going to evade, precisely so that we do not put the finger on the type of sunshine, because every such committee, when approaching it with honest terms and with no constituencies and obedience, is indeed an opportunity not to find the guilty one saves and well - it may indeed be for a political person not to prove his guilt - but because control honors the man controlled, especially when he has nothing to fear. He should, in fact, ask for it. So let us also ask for the New Democracy and the Democratic Partnership without the asterisks and the prerequisites and let us move on with this proposal, vote on the substance, and really start a process of investigation, because the procedures are and are 'current'. Separate them? Are we going to say that these are not of interest to the way in which political control was exercised in the armaments sector? Is it going to be something foreign to the House? It is therefore a key task of the special parliamentary committee. Mr Christos Karayannides said a few things before, and I fully agree with what he has said. On the basis of the documents transmitted, however, we have to explain: with what guarantees almost half of the country's external debt has been spent on the armaments programmes? To what extent did this really serve the country's defence and, indeed, without selfishness and without selfishness? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] This must be responded specifically now that we have this critical and difficult period. And not as an evasion, but as an element in overcoming the crisis and in joining another post-mortem era, beyond all these pathogens. This is where one has to ask for an investigation into transparency in the agencies with which the Ministry of National Defence is working on and controlling corruption. The issues that were raised by Christos Karayannides about how the loan was made to serve these armaments programs are of enormous importance. It's a huge matter! And one cannot hide behind his finger, much more so that the competitions of the Ministry of National Defence do not fall under the control of the Single Authority for Public Contracts. That is an additional reason why these must be absolutely fortified. Transparency in the management of defence expenditure. The detailed account of the methodology for the purchase of armaments. Finally, the procedures that will enable us to have substantial integrity clauses.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u152	Please finish, Mr. Dritsa.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u153	I shall conclude, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there are, in the past, proposals from the SYRIZA - when it was opposition - that the Minister and now President of the Democratic Independence, Mrs Gennamas, had accepted them and had incorporated them into her own political initiative, such as the clauses on integrity and the exclusion of opaque transactions in contracts and the Compensatory Benefits and all contracts. And any company or natural person who has been prosecuted, could not, on the basis of a list that would be maintained, participate in any competition until the procedure is over. All this has been forgotten and must be brought back to news. With these considerations, not only do I recommend, but I am, of course, voting in favour of the proposal to set up a special parliamentary committee. And to those who disagree or look for asterisks or anything else, I would like to remind them of Oscar Wilde and a phrase very suitable for what we are discussing today: "Many of them had discovered America before Columbus, but they were all making sure they could silence it." Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, too. Mr Koutsoubas, President of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece and Secretary-General of the Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u155	Ladies and gentlemen, the specific offence we are debating today, on the basis of the proposal to set up a special parliamentary committee, concerns any involvement of the former Minister and relates to the country's armaments programme: a hundred seventy Leopard tanks, twelve aggressive helicopters Apache, six wells of 'S' type, electronic war systems, twenty transport helicopters, etc. First of all, the submission of this proposal by the SYRIZA Members, as well as other proposals for setting up committees of inquiry during the two years of governance of the country by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, as well as the submission of other, similar proposals by the Members of the government majority, serve a very specific objective: it is an attempt to disorientate the workers, the poor people affected by the policies of the government and the European Union. It is also an attempt, at the same time, to deceive the government to show that it has the political will, unlike the previous governments, to strike corruption at all levels. It creates and fuels the idea that, for the explosive situation experienced by our people, the scandals are the basic responsibility of those who participated in them or who tolerated them, and not, of course, the political, strategic choices of the sovereign bourgeoisie and its alliances, such as the European Union, in which all the forces of the government and the rest of the counterpopulation are converging. The greater the convergence in strategic choices of capital, the more it becomes, urban parties are trying to conflict on issues such as corruption, complexity - we have known them, we have discussed them several times in these years, in this Chamber - to hide, ultimately, the true guilty of their conscious choices, which is no other than the firm choice for full support for this development path, namely capitalist development, the profitability of the few. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate on the arms issue is directly linked to the orientation of the Armed Forces of Greece, their doctrine of use, the participation of the country in NATO, the European Union, their missions and interventions. It is linked to the pursuit of the Greek bourgeoisie to step up its position geostrategically and in the area that objectively leads to the involvement of the Hellenic Armed Forces, support and participation in wars, interventions against other peoples. Today, the Greek Armed Forces are participating with staff and within support of bases and units on Greek territory at least thirteen military missions within the framework of NATO and the European Union, as well as within the framework of the UN and in the Indian Ocean and in the Swaz, Kosovo, Afghanistan, Serbia, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Mali, the Horn of Africa, Lebanon, Libya. What, exactly, are the interests of our people at stake there? Do they defend the Greek border, the military involved in these missions? Of course not. All the previous governments - and the New Democracy and the PASOK - have huge responsibilities for all of this. Also, huge responsibilities are today's co-government, like the previous one - this six-month - SYRIZA - ANEL, which makes proposals, which were not even the most pro-Natural governments of postpopulation dared to do, such as its proposals to open up new NATO bases in the Aegean Sea, Crete, Kalamata. At the Government's invitation, NATO was permanently settled in the Aegean Sea, allegedly to deal with refugee flows. Also Turkish forces are involved, ships, planes, flying and sailing with naval boulders and licensed over and around the Aegean islands. The NATO line that does not recognise national borders in the Aegean is in fact implemented, but considers it a single operational area. As soon as the day before yesterday, Lemnos was wiped out from the Greek space during an exercise in the Aegean Sea, while NATO official said that NATO does not have an opinion on territorial issues among its allies in the Aegean region or elsewhere. It is this line that gives air to the claims of Turkey's bourgeoisie. It is also one of the reasons why violations and Turkish challenges have multiplyed since NATO came to the Aegean Sea. Therefore, participation in these imperialist organisations is all but beneficial for our sovereign rights, our borders, the interests of the Greek people, who in conditions of economic crisis are paying for this participation. We all remember the recent outrageous statement by the President of the United States, who congratulated the Greek Government because despite the bloody cuts in the rights of the Greek people, Greece remains firmly one of the few countries that spend more than 2% of GDP on NATO needs. In other words, with the money and blood of the Greek people, a huge billion party is being set up around equipment, the country's participation in wars, interventions, and such planning. Of course, a prerequisite for the lion's share of domestic and foreign armaments monopolies is the exclusion and dismantling of the equipment of the state military industry. So in this context we are now considering this particular issue. The updated National Defence Policy is an institutional text describing the general guidelines and objectives of national defence policy. Typically, in order to shape it, account shall be taken of the international and regional security environment, the power factors and the existing and created threats, and finally, the risks and challenges for the security of the country as they arise from the military assessment of a situation. That, anyway, is the typical description of the National Defence Policy. In this case, however, the catalytic effect of the naval operational needs on the development of the National Defence Policy is deliberately succumbing. The results of this impact are evident in the doctrine of using the Armed Forces, which does not serve, as it should only, the defence of borders, but to a significant extent is adapted to NATO's needs. The natural outcome of this adaptation, of this orientation of dogma, is the costing of the required weapon systems, which will regularly support it, namely the battlefield. It is a common finding in the area of the military - and today this is more intense - that basic weapons systems of all three branches of the Armed Forces are adapted to the requirements arising from the need to serve naval projects. This concerns both the type and the number of weapon systems purchased by Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, this is objectively linked to the general political direction, with strategic choices of the former governments of the New Democracy and PASOK, but also today. The country's defence is linked to the defensive doctrine adopted by the country. The research and development of the war industries is also linked to the country's overall policy. We are the first to talk to all tons of the need to defend our sovereign rights, to defend the borders of the country, as long as there are borders. We are not the ones who have said or said, as others have said, and in here and out of here, that they can change the borders, so long as they are supposedly velvet. Has any of us seen a change in the borders of countries without people's blood, without wars, without military operations, without intervention? We have a radically opposite view of the country's overall policy, especially in the area of defence. We believe that we should have a policy that defends the interests of our country, our people, which are the interests of the majority of workers in this place. We are talking about a defence policy that will defend precisely this and not the interests of NATO or the European Union. We need to make something clear. Internal policy and foreign policy go ahead with a package. You cannot have a barbaric anti-popular policy and your foreign policy to have a peace policy, for example. This is inconsistent. Unless we mean peace - as many of you probably think - the gun at the top of the peoples, which is preparing new wars, new interventions, new artifacts. That is why we say that Greece is bound to the chariot of the imperialist organizations and alliances today, taking part in aggressive military actions. And it does not participate because it is required, but because it also serves the interests of the dominant class. All the governments so far say that we need to see the question of Greece's defence of international obligations. But what are these international obligations? It is our membership of NATO and our membership of the European Union, the participation in all these designs of these imperialist organisations. That's what the simple people are listening to us right now. So the country's defensive doctrine in the country's armaments programs is determined by it. It is not determined by what defence needs Greece has as a country and also by the fact that here it threatens you as an ally - supposedly - that we are in the same alliance within NATO. The threat, which exists and is provoked against Coron, comes from a country which participates in NATO. We are therefore talking about various programmes - armaments, defence, problem-management and others - which both Turkey and NATO know very well, know everything, know everything, what is happening in the region, and in the country and in their details. Even the structure of the Armed Forces is determined, to a certain extent, as is armaments - to a greater extent - by NATO itself. That is why we can say too many examples, but I do not take time and time now. The Greek people pay so much money for equipment, which responds basically and mainly to what is of interest only to NATO's only needs. And history has shown that NATO's interests were and are contrary to the interests of the country. What should we want to do first? The Cyprus issue? The various crises, like the Imias? In border disputes, NATO is washing its hands. He has never taken a position or better, his position favours the interests of NATO leaders such as the United States of America, Great Britain, other regional powers, such as Turkey, etc. And we are not fooled by the individual tactics and contradictions, which appear in various phases, so that they may then be forgotten in the territory of their common interests. So we also have unsurpassed armaments for the Greek people and a substantial undermining of the sovereignty of the country. Similarly, participation in the European Union and the directives and laws passed by the Greek Parliament have led to a substantial dismantling of the country's defence industry. Greece, at best, with the policy of all the current governments, of the parties in favour of the European Union, can become at most - a micro-enterprise. To develop domestically, serious defence industry, however, it cannot do so without actually conflicting with the European Union itself, the monopolistic groups, the system that supports all of this. We have tabled a comprehensive proposal, which everyone once adopted - regardless of whether or not they were still in the process of distorting it intentionally, consciously - for a single defence industry body, exclusively public sector, which could really exploit the enormous potential of our country, both in technology and in know-how and in scientific, technical, labour, experienced, trained and, of course, confronted with defence problems and extend to other sectors. And all this today has been completely devalued. Unfortunately, they're constantly deceived. How can a country be the first in the world to a commercial fleet, shipowners have ordered more than two, two and a half, three thousand ships over the last ten, fifteen years and not have one in Greece? Why? Because the yards were privatised, closed, because they were found in Germany, elsewhere, because there was never such a design. Badly lies, the single European market serves the strategic interests, the objectives of the European Union, the monopolies, the great capital of its Member States. Its directions are against the peoples of Europe, against the Greek people, against the working people's movement, against all those who question them. Ladies and gentlemen, having full knowledge of the negative experience of the operation and the results of both committees of inquiry and of special parliamentary committees in the recent and most distant past, the JRC will, of course, vote in favour of the establishment of the proposed special parliamentary committee. We do not want there to be any doubt about our real intentions. We want to investigate in detail all cases that may contain both dark aspects and create suspicions of illegal activities. Above all, we want the work of this special parliamentary committee - as in other cases dealt with in connection with armaments programmes - to highlight the essence of the political problem, in particular, of the choices made, which lead to this rotten system and corruption and conflict. Unfortunately, these issues have no stopping, as long as the knife is not deep into the bone, as long as the same strategic choices and policies are followed, even by other managers on a case-by-case basis. We are sure that, as we have seen both the work of the New Democracy Government and the PASOK Governments and now the SYRIZA Governments, we will, unfortunately, also do the same work and the next and the aftermath, if the people do not decide to take their luck in their hands and actually get rid of all those who are serving this system of barbarity, inhumanity, anti-Language measures, military armaments and military interventions, whether with memoranda or without memoranda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u156	Thank you. SYRIZA Member Christos Antoniou by letter to the President of the Parliament is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad from 30 March 2017 until 2 April 2017 for personal reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u157	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Also, New Democracy MP Mr Konstantinos Tsiaras is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad from 28 March 2017 to 30 March 2017, for accompanying the President of the New Democracy at the European People's Party conference. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u158	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, forty-five students and students and six educational attendants from the 1st and 2nd Efiotis Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Javarras will then have the floor and Mr Kegeroglu will then. Please, Mr Javarras, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u159	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a common place to say that this process is not expected today. No arguments will be cross-referenced, because more or less all Parliament's wings lead to the final, unanimous procedure - from what I understand - a decision to set up a special parliamentary committee to carry out the preliminary examination. Even the one against whom the application is being made, I think that it has no particular stress, judging by the contents of the text that has been distributed to us, as it is, at the outset, without any particular study and diligence, it refers to some marginal issues, because it knows, of course, what the whole process will be. And the big question is, why is this whole process? And you will allow me - since there is no need to deal with all these issues - with a top issue, which I see every day appearing more and more prosperous in the ranks of Members and is a major issue for me. We'll have to start with an admission. And this assumption is that in a liberal society there are no moral or political truths, but moral and political choices. That is why Hans Kelsen, one of the largest legislators in the previous century and the previous century, had formulated the definition of the Liberal Parliamentary Republic as the system of procedural rules guaranteeing moral and political pluralism and supported the principle of the honorable neutrality of the state. That is where any modern democracy, which respects itself, which accepts the ideological project of enlightenment, and particularly participates in the great body of the Council of Europe, should demonstrate every day how much it has embraced this very principle. But I think - and I will be allowed by the President of Parliament, with all due respect for his office - that yesterday in Amalada there was a violation of this principle of worthy neutrality, because the House appears to be taking place in a struggle which has been barren, which has been destructive, which has been sad and which is one of the darkest pages of our post-war history. There, then, a truly brilliant fighter of his prolongation, a hero of his party, through the specific initiative of the House, appears as a hero of democracy, that is, he also appears as a hero representing the other side, because there are heroes there too. That is why I say that in a democracy which respects these principles and, above all, the principle of worthy neutrality, this House, which is the place from which we are all talking about and fighting to make our democracy better, should have this welfare. Because today, more than ever, what I can see is - and I say very much to the majority Members - that we have only just been removed from these principles and have joined what was the opposite of this theory of liberal Kelsen, who I believe was not a conservative, he was a social democrat. So that is what today creates us the biggest problem, because, in essence and systematically, the majority has joined the theories of the state of the art, which has become known for its very specific perceptions of Carl Schmidt. And I think, ladies and gentlemen, that what you are doing today is nothing but trying to strengthen what unites you. And above all, what unites you are not the feelings of friendship and solidarity with society, it is not your attempt to offer in the fight against corruption and the introduction of transparency, but to unite towards a common enemy. Because that is the logic of solidarity that you are primarily developing the united possibility of denouncing and denouncing the existence of an enemy, and of organising a plan to launch the struggle for its invasion. These, if we take them in turn, are a series of incidents, a series of communications actions that start from the time the Prime Minister in his very specific and disgusting speech in Aegleo said, "Or we will end them or end them." This is what you did yesterday, because you are doing so today, because your aim is to create the impression in society that you are a comprehensive association of MPs, citizens, members of a party that has an enemy, an enemy that is identical to corruption, an enemy that is identical to the interests of creditors and enemies of Greece. But that doesn't pass. To conclude, I would like to bring to our mind these very beautiful words, the words used by George Seferis when, while he was about to go on board to return to Greece in October 1944 from a small port next to Salerno, the Cava dei Tirreni - if I am not mistaken, he was called - he wrote the known poem: "The last station". So there are two lyrics there. One is: "The time of the sorrow, the time of the reap." So you have been sowed for two and a half years, but be careful why the weather is reaping, and then society will see how it reacts. And I would like the second verse, Mr President, to dedicate it to you: 'Heroes always go in the dark'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, too. Mr Kegeroglu MEP for the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u161	Ladies and gentlemen, the depreciation of post-population, of the best period of modern history in Greece, is promoted by many centres of interest in our country who want to write history in the beam. Unfortunately, however, he finds many correspondents and blind transponders in this House as well. Well, Golden Dawn has its reasons for denouncing the Migration. He wants to expose the previous period, the two dictatorships, the seven royal and military coups, the disastrous civil war, the passions and division that he has brought, and which some seem to seek to revive in modern times. I hope they fail. But what do the others have? Why are they deceiving the best days - and in particular the government today with the responsibility of the political situation in Greece - thanks to small-party purposes? It commits a huge political error of strategic importance. However, let's see where everyone who talks with such disdain today was in the relocation. And I do not mean those who were at the edge of power and other institutions, known and unexplainable - are not the time - nor those who applied to state-owned economic activity. It's not even that of the hour. However, it is time to see, for example, the Article 86, which has spoken a great deal today from all its wings and its revision, the 'duty of responsibility' law, which is based on Article 86. What do you think? In 2003 why was it voted on by all the wings of the House, and the Coalition and the New Democracy and the JRC, if I am not wrong? Because it was a better arrangement than the previous one. That's what I'm explaining backwards, that I wasn't. She's not the perfect one. It had to be reviewed. Of course! But when it was time for the revision, New Democracy and Coalition helped to cancel the revision of the Constitution, with only agreement on the revision of the order relating to the Member's incompatibility. So let us not shed tears today, those who were shareholders not to revise this provision in 2008. Today Greece is experiencing European events that overthrow and upset stability. It is, however, without a plan and without a national strategy. Instead of striving for stability, the government is still tightening up relations with European and European institutions, it follows the normalization of the week and the day. Only strategy is the self-eminence. And this, unfortunately, is at the expense of the country. The only thing that the government seems to be trying to achieve is that it is all that it signs and accepts, is to apply after 2018 and 2019 and, of course, to present themselves at the right time, in a climate where not only the hundred and fifty-three are accepted, which I personally think are willing to sign anything that comes - there is no question for them - but above all for the citizens, for the people. They will say: "But we couldn't do anything. We've been negotiating. We're sick. You saw us. We have wasted so much time, we have not listened to the New Democracy, perhaps PASOK, which told us to sign as - as. But now we're going to fall into the cliff?' That's the script. At the same time, he accepts everything and as I have said, unfortunately, he has been committing Greece for many years. Reproducing what Mr. Tsipras and everyone of SYRIZA said about PPC and energy and what are they signing now? Take a mirror, read them in the mirror, see how they fit you today. And read one word and the other. Then you will see what political humiliation you have suffered. That is one issue, however, which we will discuss in the next few weeks. You are trying to disorientate with the exams, change the public agenda and bring issues that concern the people. However, we are talking today about pre-examination - when they do not aim for transparency and justice, but for micro-party purposes, they sometimes do not end up as the designer draws up in closed rooms. We already have the first taste of the exam to fund parties and media, where SYRIZA came as a prosecutor and left as a defendant, went out as a defendant.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u162	Yeah. That's what Justice says!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u163	The case-file for the CEDEFOP, the inter-institutional interventions, the smuggling, that is, Mr Polakis. And the debate will continue and, of course, with the special parliamentary committee announced by the Prime Minister. Be careful, it will not only be the 2012-2014 period that you intend to discuss. It will also be discussed in 2004-2009 to see how the pharmaceutical expenditure has been derailed and everything that has been done. The 2010-2012 period of the household and the fair reform that has brought results will also be discussed. And, of course, we will discuss the period of 2015, which for a year you have not invoiced drugs and continued to pay the people at the most expensive prices, because you had - it says - a job in the negotiation. Everyone was going together. They also took the Minister for Health to negotiate. That's it! [[Applause]] Listen, gentlemen. We have said 'yes' for reasons of principle in the special parliamentary committee to shine the truth. At the same time, we note that the government is attempting what I have said through this process. Under no circumstances do we agree at a time when the country needs national understanding, from shaping a national strategy, from shaping a national line to get out of the toughest, to divert political activity. That is not in our political pursuits. The government will be indebted to this because it will also contribute to moving things forward in a distorted way. Watch out, open the pit of others through designs of dark rooms, but they usually fall inside the designers in this way. I close by reminding you of two things, because we have heard many lessons from SYRIZA colleagues: they have signed texts - because we are being invoked - where one text says that Mr Georgiou, who took over to ELSTAT in September 2010, is responsible for the 2009 and the 'cooking' of the information that was done before. The one he took over after! And the second signature relates to the fact that the account of the 1.3 billion, which is 2000, is related to markets in 2002, 2003, etc. At least there is a consistency in what you sign, not having reasonable leaps. Because you're trying to drive us crazy, but you're going to go crazy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u164	Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u165	I would ask the Bureau and colleagues to understand, because this afternoon I will be chairing, so I would not have the right to speak on the matter from the Member's position. However, because there have been references to my decision on the substance of the matter and in the name of the House for yesterday's event, I consider it my duty not to remain silent. I want to express a negative surprise to four issues: for a month and a half that has been publicly debated this issue - because we have been doing a hard job after the unanimous decision of the Municipality of Helios, which called on us to help us in the aftermath of twenty years in order to make it a reality for the work on the report - they had been publicly expressed by two approved newspapers and surnamed commentators, by Kathimerini and "ESTIA" and by other marginal forms of the extreme right, objections and objections to whether Parliament should be involved in the performance of honour and in strengthening this effort. From no other side, neither publicists nor political parties had expressed anything in public. And I thought that - and I still consider it - as an indicative element of democratic maturity in the year 2017 on how we see the history, which is obviously not seen by everyone with the same eyes, who obviously do not see all the same paths, but which is obviously a united story of this people about how we have arrived here so far. I am therefore amazed, because now and after this cycle has been closed, this issue has been raised earlier with the two speeches in particular of the approval colleagues of the New Democracy. Because I take no account of the civil war talks from the wing of the other gentlemen, who have obviously found them. I'm really surprised. I am also amazed - and this is the second issue - by the fact that there is an advocacy for an execution, which took place under the public, international, global outcry of the most prominent intellectuals and politicians of that period. That was no accident, and we do not have to say it today. They said the same with their signatures the reason why they had united their voices in order not to carry out this execution of Nikos Belogannis and the three others, the Chaplain, Argyriadis and Batsi. There were reasons why they were publicly and internationally mentioned. The third issue to which I am am surprised is that I am sure the honourable Members know that the execution of the four, despite the great ambiguity which existed in the state and the government at that time, was on Sunday at 04.10 a.m. which is not acceptable - the Germans never did and before the sun was sunrise - precisely because the next day it had been called, in the enormous political conflict that occurred with the pressure of the Americans in the palace, the special grace committee. And it was done by energy and through a laborious effort of the mechanisms of the paradox and the state to make executions. And if you see the press of the next and next days, you will find that there has been a top issue of political conflict, where within the then powers, in the views - let's say it - to the "winners" of the Civil War - put it within what you import - or whatever there was very strong objections up to the level of Prime Minister for this action. And my last surprise relates to what we lived in Amalada yesterday, where from nowhere - and I am happy about that, because it shows a great maturity of our people, who also knows him - the MP, Mr Javaras, who is from the Tower - from the Municipality, the Region and the hundreds - not to say thousands - who for two and a half hours were in Amalada, beyond the "strong" - let us say - of the KE or of SYRIZA and the others, not only were no objections to being indicated in any way in the local press, but the world was fully aware of the great importance it had for today's Republic, for today's Parliament to honour Nikos Belogannis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u166	Mr President, I did not intend to speak - and you understand - but after what you said, I would also say that I was personally impressed when I first went to Spain and I saw that the winner of the Civil War there, General Franco, the dictator, honoured the dead of the Civil War along with his dead people and so far they do not hear in the Spanish parliament that the people of Spain are being afflicted. We are still here - unfortunately some - exaggerating the dead. This is really unacceptable and I personally believe that your energy as President and representing the House was very right in the memory of Beloganne.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u167	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u168	Here, Mr. Javarra, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u169	With great respect for what I have heard from the President of Parliament and from you, Mr President, I have put forward and put forward what I said to a general principle which no one can adopt and be a Member of this Parliament. But here is a deliberate confusion, collapsing - I would say - two different examples, which coexist with the same historical person. In fact, Nikos Belogannis, as a convict to death by a court which was a court of court and which, in fact, through his judgment, showed a state of emergency situations and conditions that violated human rights, is undoubtedly something that justifiedly brought together all intellectuals, politicians. De Gaulle was the one who said "no" to the execution, but Nikos Plastiras said "no, they won't be executed". The para-state, however, was that - and I agree - which led to this result.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u170	That's the neutral...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u171	Let go, gentlemen! Another issue, then, is the question of participation as a hero of his party and his extrapolation from one particular side to the Civil War. And the Civil War in Greece, Mr President, does not have the charm - if you like - of the Spanish Civil War, nor has it left the fingerprint left by the Spanish Civil War. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] This war was a war where one side was fighting - I do not know how it heard yesterday - for a particular project and the other side was fighting for Greece not to become a People's Republic. I cannot understand, then, which one of the two has been vindicated. I said it again: I don't know what Nikos Belogannis would do living up to this era. Mr President, Mr Voutsi, I do not want to refer to what the late Lionidas Kyrikos said in an interview with the "Catherine". On all sides, therefore, there are heroes, from all sides there have also been malicious ones, from all sides, and here I am ending - cases for which the House and today's democracy cannot believe that this black page of the history of Greece, the Civil War, can be an element of our cultural heritage, so that it can be maintained in the memory of the next generations in a museum of civil war. That's all I had to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u172	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u173	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u174	I don't bother you often. I am sorry, but first of all I find it unacceptable that today, on a specific agenda, and on this subject, we are confusing in various ways and with various interests the 'Nicos Belogannis' case. Not to say "two beings in a foreign barn are fighting"! It's been terrible things here. I have no doubt that in this area, in this Parliament - not this, in general, in Parliament - these views are very normal. Nor do I ever expect the fight of EAM, ELAS, ENON, the Democratic Army of Greece to be justified in this Parliament. I never expected that, nor was it in our intention! This Parliament - the urban parliament we are saying - can only, regardless of composition, reward the whip and the carrot to the people. When will the carrot be and when will the whisper be. We expect no reward from this Parliament. Neither did Beloganne give his life to live in such a Parliament as it exists throughout Europe. You know our opinions. At least, however, knowing what this Parliament is, we also respect certain things. This is where terrible things and antihistorics sounded. What do you want me to do now, whether or not you could prevent the execution of Belogan and why it wasn't prevented? I'm not going to stand on this. Mercy, gentlemen! There are records, there are stories. Yes, there are ideological differences. Yes, we are in two opposing camps uncompromising - not only with the New Democracy and others - but, look at you see, there is no right - and I am not talking right now - to say what Belogannis would do today. But the right to the JRC is to say what Dimitris Koutsoubas said yesterday in Amaliada. We have that right. I have no right to say what Belogannis would do today, his children, his grandchildren and the grandchildren. I can't say it for anyone! There have been terrible turbulences here. Finish with the extensions. Belogannis ended in 1952. But the JRC does exist. Everyone has the right to talk about Belogannis. We're not monopolizing anything. But we cannot tolerate hypocrisy, contagiousness and hatred. Hate explains it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u175	Mr Javarra, what I said - and I am addressing you because you have addressed me - was that in every civil war - and I mentioned Franco's example - the winners first honour the dead of the other camp and demand that the other camp do the same. We here haven't made it yet. Unfortunately, that is our problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u176	Because some people have an interest...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u177	We proceed with Mr Lazaridis, Member of the Independent Greeks. Mr. Lazarides, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u178	Thank you, Mr President. I have listened with great interest to all my fellow Members, because the debate is very interesting today, ladies and gentlemen. And I am very surprised to hear Mr PASOK's representative, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, with the modern name, referring to the period of Simitis as the brightest period of post-population. And I was really surprised, and I say remember some things, because it was really at that time that the country's economic disaster began, and that is exactly what this situation is based on, the deep crisis that we are experiencing, which is not its counterpart in the global economy. Eight years of crisis! What can one remember from the time that my colleague described as brilliant? The fact that the industries from Macedonia were being subsidised to move to Bulgaria? Because at the time the movement of industries and craft industries began in Bulgaria, Skopje, etc. Did the Simitis Government grant them to be transferred there? Remember the dent of the vineyards? Remember the abolition of tobacco cultivation? Remember what? What several colleagues accused of when the crisis started and said about Greece that we are producing nothing and that all of us import it, it was not the citizens' fault, it wasn't the Greeks, it wasn't the commercial world. It was precisely the period during which the entire production machine in the country was completely depreciated. And remember, too, the destruction, the great fraud of the stock market, when we had the greatest displacement of wealth from the hands of the citizens, because there was a 'baby', so to speak, from the point of view of the government. And neither of us forget the fact that the then ministers and even the then Prime Minister Simitis said that the target is the seven thousand units on the stock market. And then they liberated the loan. In other words, citizens could now freely take loans to play on the stock market. And this period is characterized as a splendid period? If possible, ladies and gentlemen! And not forget the introduction to the euro, the trick with the swaps, etc., which, of course, all escaped to the next government, the Karamanlis government 2004-2009. Ladies and gentlemen, the world, but also the common sense of law, are asking for a plenty of light to be poured out, because all these equipment, which, as a start, have at this time described as brilliant, wherever we catch them, are actually 'judging'. Shall we start from the NH-90 helicopters, which we paid EUR 670 million, or 370 million more than Finland paid? Now I remembered something else that a colleague from the Civic Opposition said, who spoke of operational preparedness. When they needed these helicopters to attempt, if you remember, ladies and gentlemen, the Adriatic shipwreck with the ferry boat that the Greek-Italy route makes, was on the business stand by 10%. That is, out of the ten helicopters that were ready, the two of Athens and one, as soon as he arrived in Igoumenitsa, stood down in Igoumenitsa. These were the helicopters supplied by the then government without any technical support and without guarantees. In fact, fourteen years after the signature, of the twenty helicopters that we ordered, we have only received twelve. The rest still hasn't delivered them to us. There is no clause, no clear government at that time. No clauses at all. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm done. Your tolerance for a minute, Mr President. Do you know what it is? That even these twelve that we have received are problematic. Remember the Leopards? Leopard paid 30% to 40% more than other countries that ordered similar tanks and did not obtain ammunition. I mean, we're talking about scandalous cases. In any case, I see that my time is over, Mr President. We support the setting-up of this special parliamentary committee, because indeed society, and all of us want to be poured out, and in any case, to see what has finally happened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how this House is organised and operated, twenty-one students from the Institute for Migration Policy under the 'ERASMUS' programme. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We are going with the next speaker, the Member of the Union of Centres, Mr Cavadela. Please, Mr Cavadela, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u180	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are currently in the unpleasant position to take action against former colleagues. Does anyone doubt, however, that this country has become a big food and many have put the finger on honey? Recently we have had the report on the responsibility of the parties for the lending of the media and parties. And - oh of the miracle! - Neither one in charge! So, fireworks. Give the people a show because the people have already been deprived of the bread. It should not be the impression that only individual thieves are to blame for the current situation if they exist. It is the customer government, the governments of the past rather than various conflicts. Assuming the ministers were stealing - of course the presumption of innocence is respected by us at least - the Prime Ministers are irresponsible? We're talking about overpricing. Didn't the Prime Ministers know anything? If anyone wants to buy a laundry, he's looking for a week to find the best price. We're not naive, we know your intention is to impress. No debate on Article 86 on the responsibility or rather non-responsibility of Ministers. Here and now we must all show that we have good intentions. So let's get to the main thing. All the indictment looks rough. Do you intend to cover up? Because we suspect that you will not support the guilt of the former Minister in an undeniable and clear manner. You are referring to a foreign account, but there was at least two years before the ministerial court, regardless of whether the couple can justify it adequately. So the indictment is not substantiated. I am telling you again that my intention is impressive and you do not want to scare the various traders from the mediators. In this regard, it is well known that nothing is given free of charge. The compensatory benefits therefore increase the price of the main project, the main product and go out of control, as they appear to be a donation, as a supply of the supplier. Especially should we not be naive when the compensatory benefits exceed 250 % of the investment. So it is time to show seriousness. We must preserve not only the authority of political persons, but also the authority of the Armed Forces. Mr Papantoniou is quoted with six pleadings for truly scandalous contracts and we are called upon to decide to set up a special parliamentary committee. Mr Papantoniou is accused of helicopters - let me not say them, they have been said by the previous speakers - and there is no point in repeating them - and there is also a reference to banking accounts in institutions abroad held by his wife and withholding funds, which he was highly unable to justify as legally acquired. Already, of course, the pair of Papantoniou has been convicted three times for the offence of the inaccurate statement 'from where you were.' We call 'yes' to every in-depth investigation. We call 'yes' and the abolition of Article 86 on the discharge of the responsibility of the Ministers. We want the truth to shine everywhere. We have not come with re-institutional intentions, nor on the side of the road, to load it all on individual individuals, that is to say, to rid ourselves of the responsibility of the client-type governments that have destroyed Greece. We therefore call 'yes' to the special parliamentary committee. Yes, Mr Papantoniou has responsibility for us, but not just him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, too. Mr. George Amyras, Member of the River, now has the floor. Here, Mr. Amyras, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u182	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are actually called on to decide on the establishment of the 20th Committee of Inquiry into Political Persons during the post-war period. Let us now call it a special parliamentary committee. The results of the twenty-four committees set up between 1950 and today are devastating. History only mentions two cases that resulted in a petition and a trial. The first one was known with the Special Court for the Koskotta case, with the referral by Andreas Papandreou and his discharge, and the second case concerned the well-known corn scandal with the Minister of Athanasopoulos at the time. Twenty-four Committees of Inquiry, two trials, no political guilty party in the last fifty years! Obviously, something's wrong! Even Akis Tsohatopoulos had won exonerating from the Committee of Inquiry of the Parliament, an indicative of ineffectiveness and the party influences on such investigations. Chohatzopoulos finally ended up in prison, not because the parliamentary control had squeezed him, but because he could not justify the money for his home in Dionysius Areopagitou. In simple terms, his vanity ate him and not the control of the political system. Where Parliament failed in the case of Tsohatzopoulos, the press succeeded, because the media, the newspapers kept getting evidence of the suspected money paths that ended up or started by Aki Tsohatzopoulos, but of course also the coordinated public prosecutor's investigation. Therefore, the question arises whether special parliamentary committees should be made, or let trains, war aircraft, boats, submarines go through us without doing anything. A second question, too, is this: must politicians themselves be responsible for controlling other policies? We in Potami believe that everything must come to light, particularly in cases involving, of course, public money and involvement - or signs of, political persons. But we are talking about special parliamentary committees, which should be done without party influence, so that no future Akis Tsohatzopoulos gets expropriatory paper with the seal of the Greek Parliament. This is how the position of politicians is deteriorating and squeezing. So we need special parliamentary committees that are a fist and do not end up in 2005 by the very experienced Member, Mr Giannis Tragakis, of course. He said at the time in "ELLERTEROTYPIA": "We had fully documented the involvement of Aki Tsochazopoulou in the DRUMILAN media of the company, but unfortunately that's where we stopped." Our memories of the Committee of Inquiry into the loans of the media are also recent. The government majority did not identify political responsibilities, despite the fact that the triangle of interlocutors, parties - banks - media, was a large flag of election, huge flag. We are therefore saying that in the same way as those conditions we are today in the face of the establishment of the fifth Committee of Inquiry into Defence Equipment. The previous four, as I said before, had come about without serious results. But we all know that the supply party, tentacles, arms dealers, and all this is a party that never surfaced in all its dimensions, not to say that it has only come out by a small part of it. The point is to prevent hatred and not to be searched for a holiday in Switzerland or the Caribbean, in tax havens. Even today, for example, we read in the press about SYRIZA's mammoth supplies of EUR 3 billion, for compensation, for commissions, etc. I would remind you that in the first months of 2015 the government had again made another decision on the modernisation of war aircraft from the United States of America of EUR 500 million. We heard from the papers. I ask: What procedures will all these equipment be bought? Because the country doesn't stop arming. Has the public interest been guaranteed? Is control superstitiously strong, so that we don't look for fleas in the straw after a couple of fifteen years, as we do today? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I need a minute and I'm done. We must shield the control mechanisms and strengthen the role of justice. I would remind you that today we are facing serious complaints from public prosecutors, such as Mrs Ryku. I remind you that Mrs. Ryku was the prosecutor who spotted Aki Tsohatzopoulos when the pre-inquiry had acquitted him. Now the minister resigned from her post in the prosecution of corruption, denouncing a plan of moral extermination from great interests in the drug field, because, as she denounced, she has identified political involvement. That should be the issue here today. Let us know how, who, in what way and why, if intervened, intervened in Mrs Ryku's work. It is clear, however, that'some rotten thing exists in the kingdom of Danimarky'. There's a civil in the judiciary. But there is also a tendency of the government to ride, to intervene in both the judiciary and the press, of course. The political world, ladies and gentlemen, has failed so far in the investigation of major cases. This role must be played by the independent justice that some want to manipulate. We won't allow it. Everything has to come to light. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. In conclusion, Potami says 'yes' to the setting up of this special pre-review committee to investigate the Papantoniou case. We say, however, that we will not participate in party influences, toys and impressions of disorientation that eventually cover, instead of revealing, scandals. Potami says "yes" and calls on all political groups to do the same, with our minds how we will ensure such structures in our country's defence armaments system, so that we do not find ourselves in front of new Sochatopoulos phenomena or those who are in obscurity today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u183	Thank you, too. Mr Kyritsis, Member of the SYRIZA, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u184	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will begin by saying a few words, since the debate on the Belogannis case, on the occasion of the museum's openings yesterday. I will go further on what Mr Tasoulas said and less on what Mr Javarras has said, which has set a general political framework. Mr. Tasoulas said that poorly, cruelly, but Belogannis wanted to impose a communist dictatorship on Greece. It is a little worth analyzing and looking at the issue of dictatorship. I remember two dictatorships, which we had in Greece in 1936 and one from the same political force in 1967, whose successive or in any case heirs of this political tradition are today's conservative faction, and these two dictatorships were made with the invoicing of the communist risk. Secondly, we must look at the democracy which imposed these sentences. We all know that these sentences were imposed by Resolution III and by Act 509, i.e. forced Law 509 with the House closed and Resolution III with the majority of the House abstaining. How did these happen? Extraordinary court-martials, five thousand sentences, were not even given the possibility of appealing, in five days they set the world up in the firing squad and throw him away. That was democracy, which the New Democracy colleagues are now invoking. And it wasn't just Beloganne or his three companions. They were five thousand executed, ladies and gentlemen. Well, to the point now. I would like to start by pointing out that the cases under investigation touch as contracts the sum of EUR 2.3 billion, which is almost 1.5% of GDP. And the estimated public damage is several hundred million. Today, a negotiation - which, in order to give a size class, lenders are asking for 3.5 billion - does not think that cases of 2.3 billion can be "forgotten". This would be a prejudicial to the tested Greek society. I read the note sent to the President of Parliament - and it was also communicated to us - Mr Papantoniou and I would like to make a few comments. This note could well be signed by Aki Tsohatzopoulos. It is the constant argument of someone who is in the position that the former Minister is presently in. Secondly, it contains the exculpatory claim and at the same time the extortionist implied in 'all we have eaten them', since in fact Mr Papantoniou invokes the decisions of the CSCE concerning the equipment programmes, including those in which on the basis of procedural documents we have before us justice investigates whether it is involved. Thirdly, it goes a step further, involving the name of the former Prime Minister himself. On the third topic I should like to stand by, because it has just been announced that this issue is being discussed in Parliament, Mr Simitis has taken the channels to call for elections, while another gentleman of the same political and government company, Mr Stournaras, has decided to put his weight in the negotiation in favour of the positions of lenders. I don't think that's the kind of thing I don't think of at random. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] However, I think it would be necessary to make a political assessment of this period, not only because of the armamental cress, or because of the stock exchange scandal or about the Olympics, dopa and cement, but because we see that most of the members of the Simitis Group - to mention, for example, Mr Tsukatos, Mr Mandeli, Mr Chohazopoulou and now Papantoniou - have been convicted or have serious doubts with the justice of scandals. And here, in order to return to our main theme, we have an image of a KYSEA chaired by a Prime Minister, who takes control of decisions, without however the Prime Minister, the general decree, the sole responsibility for selecting partners, feels the need to say a word other than that he is saddened, as he said in the courts about Mr Tsohatzopoulos. Today's debate is not - as Mr Papantoniou and his party officials claim - an attempt to prosecute him, confiscate him by the government majority, but the forced response of the House to six relevant procedural documents concerning him, which were sent to the National Representation. And it is not the current government that voted on liability and imputation to political persons, to persons who have been ministers or State Secretarys. On the contrary, we have always said that the law which separates political persons from judicial investigation by the natural judge is wrong practice, unjust, which even contributes to the diffuse concept in society that there is a party to politics. Generally speaking, one could ask for a special parliamentary committee to be set up on the basis of the revelation only two years ago, in fact on behalf of Mr Venizelos, whom I will read to you by word. He's been talking about it in the House too. I'm going to use the broadcast quote in which it repeats the same things. In May 2015, he tells Hatzinikolaou, the appointed Minister of National Defence, Vice-President of the Government and much more: "We are not the champions of Europe. Our sums are small. You need to see what is happening in Brussels, which is the capital of Europe. I have told the President of the German Republic, I have told Chancellor, I have told the European Parliament, I have officially said that, behind every contract with a German company, there was unfortunately a scandal." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u185	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, thirty-one students and students and three educational attendances from the 42st Municipal School of Patras. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Kefaliannis from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we will all agree that no favoured state can move forward if small or large skeletons remain in its locker. Therefore, regardless of its sudden nature, regardless of the clear electoral aim of the government to regain the votes that it loses to the opposition parties by reintroducing the account of the old political system and regardless of the timing of the situation, which, from the next few days, will have very difficult measures to vote on in the House, the New Democracy and through its rapporteur has said a clear "yes" to set up a special parliamentary committee to investigate any offences by the former Minister of National Defence Mr Papantoniou, who, of course, as has also been pointed out by many colleagues, until he has the presumption of innocence. He says 'yes', because he wishes to keep no shadow and to clarify every aspect of the equipment programs of that period and perhaps even beyond it, if necessary, so that any responsibilities can be attributed and an equivalent logic of the fact that 'all of us have eaten them together'. Finally, it says "yes, because the great loser of this case is, of course, the country's Armed Forces and the country's defensive capacity, the Armed Forces, who currently have ultramodern weapon systems parked, but without spare parts and other non-functional systems that will make maximum use of their capacity, the Armed Forces, who, because of this difficult climate created around the armaments programs, cannot buy today a single screw without the approval of the committee responsible. It is even mentioned in the Majority Report that equipment is always a source of risks for corruption of structures and individuals. I oppose the neo-corruption of the "corruption of structures", which cannot, of course, exist, but I stand on this "unfortunately", because it has been supported and created by this entire account of the Independent Greeks and SYRIZA, that anyone involved in the issue of armaments, is guilty until he is proved guilty of it. However, I am not sure, ladies and gentlemen, that we are saying 'yes' to this special parliamentary committee for the same reasons. In fact, I am not at all sure that we say 'yes' for the same reasons as the government majority. In listening to the recommendations of the Members of the government majority and reading the explanatory statement, I really wondered what the debate today is at stake. It has been done, for example, by some reference to the Law on the Responsibility of Ministers, which protects the political persons who have been illegal. Others said the Constitution covers illegal ministers. Here three things happen: whether you have confused them, whether you deliberately mislead, or a combination of these two. I would also like to remind you of something that many of the majority want to forget in this Chamber: the law on the responsibility of Ministers has been passed by all parties. And the coalition of that period was positive in the law on the responsibility of ministers. So, when invoking the old political system account, be a little more careful. I would also like to remind you that trafficking in black political money does not fall under the law on the responsibility of Ministers, because, as has been said quite rightly and case law, the law on the liability of Ministers only covers the Minister in his powers. What does that mean? That it is obviously not the duty of the Minister to steal, it is not the duty of the Minister to move 'black' money, and if we accept that there is a relevance, as the explanatory statement says, even possible to commit offences by Mr Papantoniou, it has obviously not been omitted in respect of these offences. Of course, as you well know, and in 2012 neither Article 86 of the Constitution nor the Law on the Responsibility of Ministers prevented criminal prosecutions from taking place then on to Mr Tsochhatzopoulos and had not been omitted. For other reasons, therefore, Article 86 of the Constitution must be repealed and not the one you claim to protect the politicians who have unlawfuld. It should be abolished because - to be honest - such committees as the one we are recommending are the latter which help to clarify all aspects of these issues in full. And because the New Democracy is quite clear on this issue, in its own proposal for the Revision of the Constitution, it has proposed that the House be completely dismantled from the respective judicial functions which do not belong to it and, ultimately, it also reduces its authority. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very afraid that the work of the committee, which tends to be set up, has now been undermined. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. There is a long and difficult judicial investigation into Mr. Papantoniou in progress. It is an investigation that a few days ago was subjected to a critical blow, an investigation that has been identified with a person who these days gentlemen and ladies of condolence do not want to hear it. And I'm referring to Mrs. Ryku. Ms. Ryku resigned because a newspaper that works as a channel for publishing news promoted by the government, to blame her politicians, said she was allegedly covering up evidence of the Liaconaku and Papantoniou case. And it is good to remind colleagues, but also the Greek citizens, who is Mrs Ryku. Mrs. Ryku is the prosecutor who led Mr. Tsohatzopoulos to the stand. Mrs Ryku is the one to which Mr Kammenis systematically sent information on contracts for compensatory benefits in recent years. It is the same that had passed through the Ice Arrow to the House all the relevant documents concerning Mr Papantoniou and a month ago he has just prosecuted the former Secretary of Defence Investments under the Minister of Mr Papantoniou, Mr Traylos and Mr Liakunakou. Mrs Ryku herself, the prosecutor, denounced bribes and illegal pharmaceutical companies that she had found in her investigation and perhaps political persons. And I think it was right that the Vice-President of the New Democracy, Mr.Adonis Georgiadis, noted that, if they were persons like Mr. Georgiadis, Mrs. Riku would still be in her place today. So, what happened from the government's triumphs, and suddenly we went into attacks on the State Prosecutor? How the government by a prosecuting persecutor of corruption has turned into an opponent of a persecutor of corruption and how a Minister of Justice speaks - on the same day, please - outrageously for very serious data announced by the competent prosecutor and how you have not yet given a mandate to investigate the accuracy of what the Union of Prosecutors and Judges denounces on a daily-day-based attempt to curb the work of judges and prosecutors
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u187	Mr. Kefaliannis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u188	I shall conclude, Mr President. Apart from clear answers, we are today calling on the Minister for Justice to provide the corresponding institutional guarantees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u189	Mr. George Nzimanis from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u190	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the joint proposal put forward by the SYRIZA and ANEL parliamentary groups on the establishment of an CSR to carry out a preliminary examination of the proceedings which have been forwarded to Parliament concerning former Minister of Defence Ioannis Papantoniou. Before entering the substance of the proposal, it would be advisable to see the great picture of the equipment programmes. With the single medium-term programme for the modernisation of the Armed Forces 1996-2000, which continued with the 2001-2005 programme, the country's largest armament programme has been implemented since the establishment of the new Greek state. The occasion for these markets was the Imian crisis and the fact is that the Armed Forces have covered considerable operational gaps. Of course, we have not always provided the most appropriate systems. Greece spent about EUR 27 billion on these defensive supplies, and of course it is extremely important to see how they spent this money and whether they caught a place. Here I would like to mention four issues. The first is the operational necessity and appropriateness of these weapons systems we have supplied. Although this issue is the subject of a separate debate, I will confine myself to saying that part of the available systems was necessary and appropriate. The most important thing, however, which we must also take into account for the future, is the fragmentation of supplies, namely that all this money was not made available on the basis of an overall operational plan, but on the basis of the fulfilment of all the suppliers. The second issue is compliance with procurement procedures. While in some systems the intended procedures were followed, in others we had monstrous violations, such as, for example, in the punctual memory of Swaziland firearms or the light armoured vehicles from which we supplied two types of direct assignment, VBL and Hammer, and in fact, the two hundred forty VBL with almost ten different but successive contracts, which must be a global originality. The third question is whether and whether the Greek Defence Industry benefited from these numerous and expensive programmes. The balance sheet is pitiful. It is also important that the Greek Defence Industry did not participate in international development consortia of advanced technology defence systems. Even in less advanced programs, however, the Greek Defence Industry was ignored. The fourth issue is that more than half of the total amount of EUR 27 billion went to the companies funds of the northern European countries. These are the countries that are squeezing our fingers today because we have created debts because we were wasted and corrupt and spent their money on drinks and women. However, some of our debt is also from the armaments expenditure, which we find today wonderful, because we were buying expensive weapons systems from their countries. We are now coming to the proposal to set up a special parliamentary committee. Let me also highlight three points here. The first is that the equipment under investigation coincides with the period when the impoverishment of the old political system reached its peak. Already, a former minister is in prison. But that does not mean that, because a minister was imprisoned, he has been rid of the rest. It is also encouraging that the majority of the political parties agreed on the setting up of the special parliamentary committee. As a political world, we have an obligation to investigate all cases of shade to political persons and undermine the people's confidence in their representatives. The message we want to pass is that we're not all the same at all. The second point, which I would like to raise, is that specific aspects of procurement are being investigated in the systems in question. However, we must not miss the framework within which these supplies took place. The modernization programme of the type "S" wells was directly awarded, despite the fact that the Hellenic Navy considered the programme technically, operationally and economically inconsistent. The supply of NH-90 helicopters was also made by direct delegation. Their receipts have not yet been completed, and there are many outstandings. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The supply of electronic war systems has never been implemented and the programme is sinful from the beginning to the end. It is also worth mentioning that the contract for supplying Leopard 2HEL tanks, signed, did not include the necessary quantities of ammunition. This has resulted in modern tanks with no ammunition for ten years. In any case, these are only a few, indicative, sins from a long list for many of which procedural documents have been formed. The third and final point is the time to set up the special parliamentary committee. Some claim this: Good, have you now remembered the responsibilities of the Papantoniou? I think it is never too late for the Greek people to know how they spent their money and - most importantly - to be blamed on those who harmed the public interest. Moreover, the fact that most political parties advocate the setting up of the special parliamentary committee demonstrates the correctness of the proposal. In conclusion, I propose that the proposal for a special parliamentary committee be put in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u191	Thank you, Mr. Nzimani. We continue with Mr. Nicholas Xydakis from SYRIZA. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u192	Thank you, Mr President. We have come today to discuss the setting up of a special parliamentary committee and to open a debate in the Greek Parliament on one of the fields that plague the entire post-government period, the field of armaments programmes and pathogens that gave birth to this system. I think that it is this permanent shadow of corruption that is prejudicial to the political system and above the executive power and, as a follow-up to this, the widespread impression created to the Greek people about the status of constant delays in investigations and impunity, which ultimately lead to the heavy debate that is heard in the public space: "All of them are the same. Everyone looks at how they'll get rich." I am referring to the collective disapproval of parliamentary democracy, which may be the most serious consequence of this long-standing crisis, namely the breakdown of the world's faith, that only with corruption, only with the ideology of fast, unjust enrichment, can something be created in this country. And because one of the hubs in this matter is Mr Papantoniou, we must remember - before the Ministry of National Defence and the investigation of that period that was Minister - the moral echo of his former minister, when he was the Minister of Economy and Finance, every time he crossed the value of the Exchange and the value of the markets for the creation of national wealth and for the creation of a productive model. We also need to remember how it was created in those years of credit over-expansion and mass fencing, the conviction to the Greek worker, the Greek producer that by working and trying you don't, you don't house, you don't fix your house, you don't attach democracy, but only as a "cat" of the Stock Exchange, as a landlord. "The markets are voting for us," the top ministers said at the time. But the markets don't vote. People vote and people pulled out all the pain, denial, collapse, bankruptcy and the continuing vigilance of our economy, society and homeland. So, let us remember in these years of credit over-expansion and fencing, tanks without shells, the submarines that were raised, the medical spare parts that were broken down and loaded, we still do not know how much billions of national debt are. And let us promise, let us undertake the commitment in this bankrupt country, that many years after Aki Tsohatzopoulos and Yiannos Papantoniou and all that proves to have been involved in this fencing and bankruptcy, we will give answers to the Greek people, to all questions, we will create the conditions for transparency, we will build the mechanisms and safeguards that will shield democracy and the economy. Let us show - and we are already showing ourselves as a governing party - our firm desire to clarify the scandals, to complete the trials that had begun and had not been completed, to drop light on the 'NOVARTIS' scandal, to drop light on the CEDEFOP scandal, to drop light on the GDP scandal, to drop light on the tax evasion and rindering scandal. I must also give an answer to the New Democracy colleagues who have revived the Cold War climate on the occasion of the Nikos Belogannis Museum in Amaliada. A colleague, Mr Tasoulas, questioned that Belogannis was fighting for democracy. Mr Javarras defended the neutral state. Let's take both. What was a neutral state? The state of the remnant and the emergency courthouses, as he confessed? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. This move yesterday and everything that has happened in Postpopulation is a fertile move in a dialectic memory and oblivion. The Civil War marks the newest Greek history since the early years of the revolution for two hundred years. In a memorial and oblivion dialect, citizens and hereditaries must cultivate memory and they must also throw a creative veil into what can be covered. However, the performance of honor to people who have been misguidedly executed for their ideas and for whom the official state, then, was divided, is a debt to the generations who come and are a tribute to the people who spilled their blood for Greece to be united, not divided and divided. The left hegemony and who's riding what, let's leave it. They are used by unscrupulous and misannounced people. The fact that the lyrics of Elytis and Seferis entered the lips of the Greek people in the lost spring of the 1960s is not due to any left hegemony. It is due to the longing of the Greek people to move forward, to remember and to forget together, creatively. It wasn't a fight to dominate a party. There were no losers and winners in the Civil War. There was a painful Greek people and a society that had to regain pace. We, as the left of the 21st century, feed this dynamic dialectic, power the national synthesis, feed the memory of people who have spilled their blood for their country, for their people, for their society and give the prices they have to those who have given these things. Colleagues who cannot be taught by history and are only fed by an unscrupulous reinsulation against the major challenges of the 21st century, I call on them to be generous, taught by history, to leave a legacy to future generations and finally to decide whether or not they are with the so-called democracy of Katsinski in Poland that is out of the law of anyone who opposes it, whether it is with Orban's democracy, the applied metaanism or if it is with De Gaul's democracy, who objected to the unjust and illegal execution of Beloganne. There are many democratic traditions that perpetuate the House of European culture. There are many traditions liberating and manipulating the House of Modern Hellenism. It is unfair for the Greek people, who suffer and strive, not only for repair, but also for a new identity liberating, liberating...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u193	Mr. Xydakis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u194	...to relive the dog fights in the extreme right-hand building. Let us learn from history and be braver with the younger generations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u195	Mr Panagiotopoulos Nicholas from New Democracy has the floor now, and immediately thereafter the Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres Mr Marios Giorgiadis. Here, Mr. Panayotopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u196	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, while the economy is actually in total collapse, in a free fall, while growth is not only coming but rather moving away, when management of things from the government leads to legislation or worse or worse, at this time the government is escalating the fight against corruption by setting up a special parliamentary committee - a pre-review committee, in essence - for Giannos Papantoniou and the case of the contracts of arms systems signed during his term of office. So at the time that the government escalates the fight against corruption, the Prosecutor of Corruption resigns. Why does he quit? Why can't he stand so much fight to fight corruption? Oh, no. She's shown since her term of office that she's done some work. He's been prosecuted. He's investigated dozens of files. He has led to the prison of state officials and a high-ranking government official, among other things, thanks to the Ryku findings. On the occasion of a publication based on a reference made by another judicial officer, which haunts her withholding and occult data in the case that we are currently considering, precisely because of these actions concerning the investigation of the relevant case-file which Mrs Ryku has done so far. It seems strange, very strange to me, because this investigation of this piece of equipment signed by Giannis Papantoniou is based on the findings of the Prosecutor of Eleni Ryku. However, it renounces, at the same time, very serious complaints about its targeting in order not to go ahead with the investigation of another major drug-related corruption case. It calls it the 'corruption fauna' in its report. On the substance, the targeted publication of the pro-government paper - there is no doubt about this, otherwise strange - achieves a result, because the resignation of the prosecutor means either the interruption or, at best, the delay in the investigation of this case and, at a very central point, the persistence of the findings according to which, among other things, there is also a bank account in which various finances were provided. Now that's interrupting. Really strange developments in the government's fight against corruption. The climate within justice as a result of these developments is heavy. I'd say there's a turbulence. There are several previous targeting of prosecutors and judges in the context of government policy purposes lately. The Union of Judges and Prosecutors shall shout. And she's shouting out loud. He's talking about public targeting of judges. It speaks of public targeting, which is intended to'repress' - and I quote - their work, it speaks of putting unfair pressure on judges by means of'strategic' - in political and economic interests of journalism. Of course, I am also talking about an institutional deficit in the protection of judiciary officials working in the fight against corruption. In this institutional deficit we have in the past tabled questions under parliamentary control, asking for information because this government has not yet legislated on the immovability of the judiciary by interventions in the conduct of investigations, which are relevant to items relating to economic crime and corruption. The relevant Minister replied to us on 8 July 2016 that the relevant draft law is being processed internally. Since then there has been nothing at all. So much commitment, please, to the fight against corruption! Because the institutional shield, gentlemen of the government, is of rather less interest than the communication management of the matter for impression purposes. So when no one knows what to do in front of the other, the big ones, or has he done what he should have done to combat corruption, what does he do? He does inquiries into the old political system that led the country to bankruptcy. Again, I quote from the proposal the government. The equipment systems are undoubtedly an appropriate subject for investigation. And by the way, because I have heard many times this nonsense about the old submarines, the original submarine, what was first built, the first of all, during the tests in Kiel, North Germany, in specific cruising conditions, that is to say at a certain speed and with some specific boats at sea, it actually showed a first-time slope. This was subsequently corrected. Today there's no old-fashioned submarine. And they followed more after the original. But, in history and in the equatorial approach of these things, they went as old submarines. It's one of the usual convenient lies. So it is a good thing that equipment is to be investigated, although, in my humble opinion, you know, the chickens are being born bigger eggs, but the equipment is being offered. The experience gained from previous committees of inquiry and pre-review does not give rise to optimism in the full investigation of the case. In the next few months, the committee's witness will march literally half the Ministry of National Defence, officials, officers, receipt committees, officers of the General Secretariat of Equipment etc. in the next few months. I bet here before you, that none of the people who will be examined will be very happy to say that alpha, beta, gamma has been cashed. And, of course, it is difficult if that is not said, to include us in some of our findings that, beyond all doubt, it has been shown by the evidence procedure that there was money. And the next day they'll all fall upon us to say that once again the case has been "collapsed" That's what experience shows. But for a long time, as you know, a news report will be produced, there will be several lines leaking, talk. Let it be. We will vote in favour of the proposal for a special parliamentary committee because we want the case to be investigated, despite the many problematic points in the wording of the very real proposal, where the damage to the public is not specifically described, there is no evidence of the damage to the public which constitutes the offence of infidelity, there is indeed no account linking the flow of money to the natural person concerned, but of the fact that the link to political persons in the body of conventions, each contract, the depth of the last page is indeed the signature of a minister. That makes sense. But you know, when the Ministerial Decision imposing capital restrictions also existed in the body of the broadly signing Baroufakis, then you did not consent to an examination - not a pre-examination committee - to investigate this very curious issue with a clear reference to the public sphere. Then the signature of Barofakis didn't count. In spite of these problems, we are in agreement with the establishment of this committee. So let's go to the committee and become the dormant. Whatever happens, however, you should know, gentlemen of the government, that your time is running out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u197	Mr Marios Georgiadis has the floor. Two speakers will follow and, after the two speakers, the Parliamentary spokesman from Potami. He would ask the Bureau for the other parliamentary representatives to come to the Chamber slowly because eight speakers have left. It would therefore be a good thing, slowly, for the other parliamentary representatives to come. Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u198	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good evening. Unfortunately, at the same time, a few hours ago, there was a conference, a conference, which referred to education, technology, innovation, education and more generally development and all the lights of publicity should be there. In contrast, we are seeing them here, in another committee, in which there is no doubt that the proposal by the SYRIZA and ANEL MPs to set up this special parliamentary committee was tabled with an obvious aim of shifting public interest from the inability of the government to television press and interest. The government hopes that with the work of the committee on a pan-Hellenic live stream, it will turn its interest and blur water elsewhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u199	Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u200	Why mercy? Mercy is your opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u201	The DA sent them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u202	Don't interrupt, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u203	When the time comes to place, if you have not been placed, you can say what you want. You will allow me to say my own view and the opinion of the Centro Association. The government hopes, therefore, that it will be able to breathe and hide the budgetary deadlocks and the unacceptable tough measures, which you will bring, my dear colleague, and you will all sign them, which will fall into the backs of the Greek people. As an argument and excuse, of course, you refer to your proposal that the possibilities of justice for prosecution have been exhausted and that is why this case is coming before us. This, of course, does not reduce the value of the substance of the case in question, to which the former Minister, Mr Papantoniou, is involved. As the Central Association, we are clearly in favour of getting plenty of light on the case, so that the truth may shine. But we wonder why only this case was chosen, since in the famous period of modernisation, between 1996 and 2004, much has been done and much more has been heard. It was the period during which the idea of inexorable, excessive lending was cultivated to the people and even the poor could make everything borrower: go on holiday to exotic countries, buy a luxurious car, repair his home without it being necessary, buy as the ruler a house, which will be worth thirty times over his annual income. After the outbreak of the economic crisis, we have seen all that has come to light: tens of thousands of'red' loans, general failure to deal with them and double and triple recapitalisations of banks. Thanks to the country's excessive lending, there was abundant money and therefore whole billions were spent easily and inaccurately in various sectors, such as health and public works. They were just temporarily giving us the illusion that we were prospering, at the same time as stranding and corruption contaminated everything in their way and devouring the state structure. Because in the end, because of this criminal policy of the same excessive lending, we have led to bankruptcy and to the point where we are at the moment. Especially in the country's armaments programs and the corresponding compensatory benefits, the feeling of all is that they have always been a privileged mediator's place of willingness to drift into corruption. The omissions of the committees responsible for specification or receipt were proveable. All of them were the famous submarines that were raised - they were also mentioned by other colleagues - who were insisting that the country receives them, despite the problems they encountered in their stability and airworthiness. Unbearable pressures were put on and many committees were set up to find out that nothing important is happening, not least that the Greek people, in order to ensure their defence, were subjected to sacrifices, borrowed and mortgaged the future of their children. It was the same time when they told us that the responsibilities for mismanagement were lost when the people voted again in elections. That was the way they had chosen, not only to withdraw responsibilities from them, but also to load them to the people, creating guilt and guilt, while at the same time unleashing the swimming pool of Siloam. They were forgetting, of course, that the people were unable to recognise the toys played at the Prime Minister's office, at the various CSCEs, at Mr Papantoniou's special office, at the tens of committees of the Ministry of Defence and what interests were they serving under the agreement on armaments and compensation. So we remember the list of projects and days of previous governments and of first-class ministers, which each of them - at least in us - is a reason to set up a committee and further investigation. I shall start by: First, although we consider that our entry into the euro to be imperative and that our stay remains essential, from circles of serious economists and technocrats, there have been many doubts as to the amount of depreciation of the national currency for this entry. Our final introduction to the euro was the greatest good of the Sheite Government. However, this does not mean that this government did not fall victim to the so-called ‘grek statistics’. In the international community, the term "Greek stats" became identical to "fake statistics" and here we have to find the guilty and their purposes. Secondly, the 1998 'Black' Fund scandal of 'SIEMENS', which ended up in faces of the then Ministerial Council and later in the PASOK funds. At least that's why the trial has already begun. Thirdly, the immunity that was allowed to prevail immediately after the introduction of the euro, given that, with the logic of rounding, adopted by the government at the time, all kinds of sceptics found a glorious glorious field in which all prices were more than doubled quickly. Fourthly, the stock market scandal, which, with the magic that took place at the time, hundreds of thousands of our fellow people were led to throwing their homes and property into that steadfast fish and countless families being destroyed. The government, not only did it whistle indifferently, but at dance and group invitationed more and more candidates. Clearly the citizens bear their own share of responsibility, when they put their savings on the Stock Exchange, but this phenomenon was promoted by the government, by the most official lips. And fifthly, the allocation of huge sums for the organization of the 2004 Athens Olympic Games, for which real reason was never attributed to the Greek people. And today we are talking about devastate these Olympic properties and they have evolved into dumps, because there has been no provision for their exploitation. Any independent observer who listens to all of this, rather black, will describe it. However, in the country of scandals we all remember that the Prime Minister provoked every citizen saying "whoever has evidence or evidence of mismanagement for any official of my administration to take them to the prosecutor". And we are here now, the time has come when after Mr Tsohatzopoulou and the second of the then PASOK government's 'protocol', the House - and even unanimously - is calling for a special parliamentary committee on whether Mr Ioannis Papantoniou should be referred back for the further. As the Central Association we are always telling the truth, and we are always looking for it, according to the proposal's thinking, because we believe that criminal responsibilities must be attributed and everything must come to the surface. Our general view is that such actions should also be taken on the other serious issues that have been the subject of public opinion since post-Culture. I wish it could be checked in every detail from 1974 to today! Of course, legislative power does not replace judiciary, but, even now, we can clarify many cases, which will enhance the image of the political world in the eyes of the people and dismantle the general outcry, because Mr Tsohatopoulos was certainly not alone. Such initiatives must be taken - beyond the five cases mentioned above - for both long-term 'part' to health and public works, for how we arrived in the memorials, for what happened in the first half of 2015, which we led to the closure of the banks, the so-called 'Varoufakada' and the other things that caused damage to the Greek people. We expect today's initiative to continue not as an opportunityal firework, such as the announcement of health research, but as a real and pure attempt to seek truth. Forty years of immunity is too much to be ignored. Since the political world has acted like this, it must finally answer. We call for the help and cooperation of all the political forces to contribute so that political cleansing can finally be made. After that, I would sum up by saying that we agree that we are setting up a special parliamentary committee to carry out a preliminary examination of the possible closure of the offences described in the proposal for the former Minister, Mr Ioannis Papantoniou, in each of the six cases concerning armaments. Let's hope it's not just her. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u204	Thank you to Mr Georgiadis and to the economy of time. Mr Pavlides Konstantinos has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u205	Ladies and gentlemen, I would not be able to comment on the statements made by Mr Tassoula, the spokesman of the New Democracy, on 'happily that the EAW did not prevail'. Someone has to inform him that EAW did not prevail because he did not want to dominate, because he agreed to Varkiza, testified the weapons, because he wanted to lead the country to free elections and to popular domination. And this is not a communist dictatorship, colleagues of the New Democracy. Just because these democratic patriotic and liberating forces did not prevail, that's why the "Parthenans" in the Macronissos, Jaro and Ikaria opened up the hellholes of exile, the prisons opened, the executions of genuine patriots. That's why the horror covered it all, and slavery slained it. What freedom of opinion and thought do you speak of the decades after the Civil War? Do you probably forget about the stone years of your political terrorism? Do you forget that the Communist Party of Greece was legalized with its own matches thirty years after the end of World War II? Do you forget in December, the murder of Lambraki, the murder of Petroula? Let it be a little more careful when writing the releases of EMU, when they speak of political vengeance. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal by the parliamentary majority to set up the Committee on Equipment is an opportunity to clarify another important part of the major defence programmes that have been at the centre of complaints and revelations for many years and to give specific responsibilities as long as they arise. As our rapporteur, Mr Paraparmatopoulos, has said, the attempt to find criminal responsibilities is not going to lead to an evasion of the rule of law. At the preliminary stage we are claiming that there are signs and suspects. Mr. Papantoniou mentions him as a suspect, with a presumption of innocence, of course, until proven guilty. The presumption of innocence, however, must be attributed to society, to the workers of this country and to the people's family, which systematically the old political establishment tried to share their guilt and to give them responsibility and complicity for the country's situation. The slogan "all of us have eaten together", became the flag of bipartisanism and an attempt to cover up the real leaders of this situation, in which the country and society are now in place. The phenomena of corruption, predominantly in the field of health and defence, have shaped a climate of political depreciation and a lack of public confidence in the political system. The problems of political and economic management arise only with democratic enlargement, institutional safeguarding, transparency and democratic control. That is exactly what we have to do today. The Imperial Crisis in 1996, military and diplomatic crisis, took place on the occasion of a cycle of armaments expenditure between 1996 and 2004 - in an eight-year period, EUR 27 billion in the process of direct commissions and external lending - and also contributing the country to the current economic and social crisis. A fireplace with a backpack of millions of euros was revealed at the ministerial offices, involving civil servants, managers of armaments companies and project managers. The first act of this scandal we witnessed with the testimony of the former Deputy Director of Equipment, Mr. Antonis Canda, who testified signs and monsters for the purchase of the Leopard 2 of the M48 tanks, the supply of the Fantom, the Cornet anti-tank rocket, Miraz and the submarines, in a circle with Swiss and Greek bankers, offshore lawyers, offshore companies based in Panama and Costa Rica, and with money routes from Geneva, which ended in Singapore. We have been ruled for decades by a political staff who, from his inner ears, bounced every single inch of a scandal. I am impressed by the position of the rapporteur for the New Democracy, Mr Davakis, who criticised the position we mentioned in our proposal that the equipment programmes were a source of corruption and representatives. Evidently the names of Koskotas, Chochazopoulou, Tsukatos, Mandelis, Papastavrou and the words "SIEMENS", "structured bonds", "equipment masses", "particular sea-shoulders", undeclaredly "subjects", "NOVARTIS", "CARPAN", of which are completely unknown. All these scandals have gone with the political practice of the two major parties. Today this government is obliged to bring it to light and to the judgment of justice and of Greek society. It is true to think about how much progress and development we would have had if all these concerned politicians worked with the same methodicality and organisation for the good of all of us in their public life. While the millions were dancing above our heads, their governments were dealing with the poor in the hospital and leading to the self-declared workers and microprofessionals who owed more than 5 000 euros to taxi or to insurance funds. In particular, criminal proceedings, related to the period 2001-2004, were forwarded to Parliament in this case. There is evidence of a crime of money laundering, which should be investigated. We don't condemn anyone. After all, that's not our role. We must, however, in this special parliamentary committee, which has a public prosecutor and an inquiry, investigate all possible and account for responsibilities if they are transparent. At the same time, we must remember that the government and SYRIZA's position is a radical transformation of the legislation on the responsibility of the ministers. We also consider as a first positive step the fact that this special parliamentary committee has the agreement of both the Civilian Representation and the entire Greek Parliament. The parties that formed governments and raised all these phenomena agreed to investigate the armaments case. However, it is not just a question of saying 'yes' to investigate cases when the evidence and indications have already been provided and the documents have been sent to Parliament. The point is to keep investigating this evidence. They have not done so in the past and, apparently, they are not doing so now. In the efforts of the Government to bring cases to light, particularly in the field of health and defence, they do not seem to have the same intention. One question is the responsibility of those who have raised corruption and another equal, in my opinion, is the responsibility of those who have had the constitutional obligation to control it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u206	Mr. Pavlidis, please get it over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u207	I shall conclude, Mr President. Corruption phenomena in health, defence, in the public sphere as a whole have an important, large share in the economic weakness of this country and this society, in budgetary deficits, in austerity policies, in fundamental phenomena and, finally, in social tolerance and misery. This proposal to set up a special parliamentary committee is not a political reinsurance, it is not a smokescreen in the political context. We do not want to turn the cameras from negotiating on the special scandal committees. It is our constitutional obligation, it is our democratic concept and it is our political sensitivity. It is our political duty and part of the agreement we have with the people to defend it when some were rich or still rich at their expense. If some people consider that our policy is communication, let them take the political responsibility of not voting for the establishment of this committee. Finally, Mr President, the involvement of a Rhodian businessman in the previous scandal by Mr Koskottas, I shall mention the phrase of another Rhodian much older than the 3rd century BC. Century of Apollo of Rhodes, who said: "Those who distinguish politics from morality will never understand either". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u208	John Shahinides has the floor from the Golden Dawn People's Association and then the Parliamentary Representative from Potami, Mr Mavrotas, will follow. Here you go, Mr. Shahinides.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u209	Thank you, Mr President. We have already heard from the Parliamentary Representative of the Centro Group that a conference on the crisis, reform and development took place yesterday. Do you bear in mind that at this conference, although it came to us in all the parliamentary e-mails and the invitation and programme of the rapporteurs, in a curious way, was the rapporteur of the third political force absent? They had representation at this conference all parties. And since the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group contacted the Budget Office, they simply did not answer us. I put it in the Minutes, for the truth. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Sahinides, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I have a question. Since this morning, we've heard things. Untie me. You can. You left - the communists, I would say, because on the left there was only communism and then the left came - from what you say, if I think I am completely ignorant historically, all but all of you, without exception, do not have one evil. How can all the bad guys be on the other side? Indeed, at some point you will have to answer this question. I'm on it. We therefore read the proposal to set up a special parliamentary committee to carry out a preliminary examination to investigate possible various offences. The proposal, therefore, concerns the former Minister of National Defence, Mr Ioannis Papantoniou, and the committee to be set up, is to examine six criminal proceedings which have been forwarded to the House concerning all the former Minister, to whom acts of infidelity are attributed, of which the Greek State has been damaged by large sums. In fact, at least one of them, in particular in the Apache case file, at least half, does the responsibility arise for another Minister of Government? I didn't hear anything from anyone. Co-pilots SYRIZA and ANEL, with the proposal, therefore, who have tabled it, hope, indeed, that they may change public opinion, pretending that they have declared war on corruption. The pre-election promise to combat inter-terrorism and corruption at all levels, gentlemen of the SYRIZA, simply remains a promise that none of you want to make. Besides, let us not forget that the very same promises were made to the Greek people by all your predecessors before they took over power of course. Undeniable witness to all that I have said, the actions of today's coexistence regarding the emergence and performance of responsibilities for scandals that led Greece to an artificial crisis. Really, who can forget the ninety plus a felony of the PASOK criminal organization, which are posted online? Who doesn't remember the fifty scandals of the other criminal organization, the New Democracy, which they also decorate the pages of the Internet? But here, gentlemen of the New Democracy, I have to admit that you were negligent as students because you were unable to overcome your teacher. The Communist Party is a scandal on its own. He never applied his ideology to his own executives. It should, of course, be part of the DUI of large businesses. There is, however, another smaller'scandal', which few know in here and everyone is posing the islet, in common with the duck. It concerns the question tabled by the current Political Committee of the New Democracy, Mr Leuteris Augenakis, when he joined the Democrat Alliance of Dora Bakoyannis, and asked whether it was helpful or whether the loan received by Samaras had been repaid with the Spring Policy, as well as the loans of other parties that had later been dissolved. Nor do we have a picture of what is happening with the famous Lagard, Panama Papers, offshore enrichment, Belgium, Copenhagen, London, Hong Kong. Every city and a list. We ask: Who is being tampered with, Minister? You are only employed safely with flagged or time-limited scandals. You are trying to convince the unfortunate Greek citizen that you are making friendly efforts. Today you are given this opportunity to prove what you want and can change the bad texts of your predecessors. It's a first-class opportunity. Grab her! We want and demand that we hear today - not tomorrow - names, amounts from scandals you have investigated or developed. We want and demand that we hear fines that have been collected and not just made sure. We want and demand that we hear penalties that have been imposed and which are being executed. Satisfy the people's demand for justice. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. It would be unfair, of course, not to refer to the letter sent by the former Minister of State, Mr Giannis Papantoniou, to the President, Mr Voutsi, who even asked to be notified to all Members. So what does it write in this letter? Neither too little nor much, the former Minister is trying, as he has said, to convince us that he is wrongly accused and that in all the arms contracts he has signed, he has been in the provisions laid down. So since the Minister is unjustly accused, as he claims, why has he not put himself before Greek justice before the limitation? But here, of course, we laugh. What if it eventually arises from the procedure of any guilt? Don't the Petsalnicu Act protect him? Does the law on the responsibility of ministers not protect him? The abolition of this eroded law is a popular requirement. Besides, it was also included in your election announcements, gentlemen of SYRIZA. In fact, the proposals that have been heard about the revision of the Constitution, why do they not involve precisely this abolition, as well as the abolition of parliamentary immunity? Remind me, however, because I have begun to forget lately how many immunitys we said were lifted for your own MPs, which should reach the audience of judges? You should know, then, that all of you so-called democratic archers have a share of responsibility. Others put a stone, a rock and a whole mountain to cover the dirt and the smell of scandals. The reference and analysis of the scandals of all the parties that have been in power would take several days in plenary, with only the nationalists speaking, because only we dared to put them in the system and we alone had the courage to tell the Greek people the truth. We have heard names and amounts from the committees of inquiry. We alone can guarantee the improvement of public life at all levels and the exemplary punishment of those who have damaged Greek interests, because we do not have foreign and domestic loots of strawmen. We're the only ones who can do all this. Do you know why? Because what we are telling you has been done and we are going with it in our personal life. Honestly, you cannot imagine how long we are waiting for the committee to be set up, where, once again, we will prove with arguments and with proof that you left and right are the same in food. I close with the words of a truly great man: “The beginning of a man’s show,” the authority reveals the character: Violence the Prince. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u210	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, thirty-four students and students and four educational attendants from the High School of Siatistas Kozanis. We welcome you guys. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The parliamentary representative from Potami, Mr Mavrotas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u211	Thank you, Mr President. I'll start with some news of the news. The government is stalling in the rating, betting once again on political negotiation. The SYRIZA - ANEL government is the only one who thinks time is working for her. Wrongly bets on Sultz victory in the September German election, which their partner at the SPD, Ziggmar Gabriel, considered naive. Even if he wants to drag the negotiation down until then, there will be no more Greek economy to follow it. The recent messages for the economy of the most competent lips are pessimistic. Mr. Stournaras and Mr. Liargova talked about risks for 2018 and a fourth memorandum or bankruptcy. The 2.7% growth for 2017 in the budget is seen as a summer night dream. The multi-seat exit on the markets in 2018, before the end of the program, is removed or evolved from the markets at the exit of Messology leading to the fourth memorandum. The vicious circle of our improper operation pushes us deeper into the crisis. As the evaluation slows down, uncertainty grows, economic indicators get worse and we need more painful measures to get the numbers out. Insecurity freezes the economic climate. Thus, there are no investments, no jobs, intensified poverty and the migration of people and businesses abroad. That is now irreversible. Even if the evaluation closes tomorrow, the damage will have been done. The market'stores', banks'stores', as the recent figures show. Four billion euros have been wings. We ask for an increase in ELA and we end up in economic suffocation. On the other hand, the government does not pay its own debts to private individuals, in order to create a reserve for July that we have to repay large instalments. It does not hesitate to "stick" the market to serve its communication game, because that is why it is. He wants to convince him he negotiated to the end. But that's what it's worth. Costs peaking uncertainty. It costs lost jobs, kids leaving outside. But let us look at this case in the special parliamentary committee. The proposal to set up a special parliamentary committee does not conflict with us. We were never opposed to shedding light on cases in need of investigation. But this must be done in all directions. A special parliamentary committee makes sense if it is to shed light and not a smokescreen to cover the current deadlocks of the government, because the 'timing' of this special parliamentary committee - as well as the special parliamentary committee or the special parliamentary committees that come for health - is like the defensive defensive mantle in the corner of a kick with all the force of the ball on the bench. It is known that the crime of infidelity has been omitted because of the beneficial provisions of the Constitution and the Law on the liability of Ministers. We all agree that this scandalous immunity of the ministers must be abolished. But there is a need for a revision of the constitution. But how can the revision proceed when the government looks at how to set up people's committees to make proposals like those that were released yesterday? Because of the Law on Responsibility of Ministers, all that remains to be investigated as a permanent crime is money laundering from criminal activity. It has not been the case since the prosecution investigations and the investigations. Signs of committed crime exist only on one case, but also on the ones that appear to concern only the supplier. It remains to be seen whether data will be presented in the special parliamentary committee that will be responsible for the Minister. It will also be interesting to know whether there are other procedures with armaments and even very recent ones, which may be the raw material for new special parliamentary committees. This is where the question arises if the government does not want Ms. Ryku in the Corruption Prosecutor's office. Does it force it indirectly to resign two months before the end of its term of office, with the well-known articles of Sunday? I say this because I can't think that this newspaper publishes something by surpriseing Maximos. These are, therefore, questions that we hope will be answered. But, in my opinion, the greatest use, as I have said in the Committee of Inquiry into the loans of parties and the media, is to see what has to be changed in the institutional framework in order to avoid such behaviour in the future, namely to be Prosecutors and not Prosecutors, because if the institutional regime has not changed, if the regime of armaments supplies is the same as then and nothing has changed, what does it say to us that the same cannot be repeated today? What does it say to us that such things are not being done now and that we can talk to a future special parliamentary committee again about the responsibilities of today's ministers? What differentiates them? If it's just moral advantage, not other insurance, then there's a problem. On the other hand, we also need to find a balance so that everything is not criminalised as a contract of armaments, because no one will then sign it. So we need to find those types of insurance that ensure the public interest with transparency, accountability and common rules, so that phenomena like those which are implying, such as bribes, hatreds, etc., are very difficult to negotiate. The institutional shield goes through, as has been said, from the revision of the Constitution and the Law on the Responsibility of Ministers. In other words, in just two parliamentary periods, such crimes cannot be recorded when the procedures in Greece are moving or can be forced to move at a turtle rate. Here, allow me a parallel to sport, to show you the value of non-deleting. The doping received a powerful blow and many lost their sleep when the samples began to be held ten years instead of two. Thus, the review of samples with new elements and methods brought much to light. Many caught after six or seven years. That's what he did and made a lot of people think about it again. In other words, it has a strong deterrent character, showing that sooner or later the deceiver is revealed. In politics with the law on the liability of Ministers, as it is today, or will the Minister catch with the sprout on his back or then go, the bird flew! What, then, is the demand beyond being held accountable? It is to form the institutional framework so that it is difficult for someone to put a finger on honey. We also need proposals from this procedure. We also made proposals to the Committee of Inquiry on parties' and media loans, but did not establish anyone's ear and were not included in the final conclusion. In closing, I would not like to leave anything the government representative said in an interview with him the other day. Mr. Janakopoulos said for the river "from the day of his founding he had a privileged relationship with the complexion". So to tell the Government spokesman that we are intertwined, that I am intertwined, he can't, he'll know something! So let us also say, what our privileged relationship with complexity is, otherwise he is a common slander. It is a pity for a new politician to use old-fashioned practices, such as mudology and confiscation of opponents. However, since we are talking about the complexion of parties, banks and the media - I should like to say to Mr Janakopoulos that the only tangible case I have seen with my eyes in the Committee of Inquiry was the letters from Mr Tsipras - and not Mr Theodorakis - to banks, when he urged bankers not only to consider the regulation of the lending of SYRIZA on financial grounds. Also, paternal letters for the lending of AGEAN, which, I am passing away, just as you went up to power more than tripled the revenues from bank advertising, without selling a single card. Not to mention your favourite contractor - who is now doing what you don't know him - and how he was getting the loans on your day. So, for relationships with the complication to tell where it takes you. It does take you somewhere, but not on the river. Because you are often referring to interests, to say this. Yes, the river serves interests, some interests that are invisible to you, you do not see them. It is the interests of all those who do not want to become parties' customers who believe in equal opportunities and open procedures and who do not want to kiss party aprons to be appointed, evolved or found jobs. We defend these interests. Is it the minority? Maybe. It is, however, the creative minority that will take the country out of the crisis, as long as it is given the opportunity not to be led by the client parties to extremism. As long as customer relations in our country have the first reason, populism and demagogy will have the last word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u212	Thank you, Mr. Mavrota. Mr. Simeon Ballis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u213	Thank you very much, Mr President. Colleagues, it is true that the last thing I would expect me to hear today was that matters which I thought had been resolved and which had been answered to the Committee of Inquiry into the loans of parties and media, which ended its work a long time ago. To return the question of the letter of Tsipras, as the honourable Member from Potami did a moment ago, I believe that this is what is going to work unorthodoxly, because it is an issue that had already been adequately answered in the committee's work. In any case, I should like to remind you that the loan of SGEI is normally served, even EUR 1 has not been delayed. The loan of SYRIZA is with provincial security and is not a sea-shore loan, in bronto, paid after a hundred and twenty years, such as loans from the former two major parties, the New Democracy and the PASOK. However, I should like to return to the subject we are discussing today. I imagine that Mr Papantoniou should be concerned, listening to his PASOK companions for reassuringly supporting his speeches that this move is a diversion operation, that the government is attempting to make political life selective, or - by listening to another colleague from another place, from New Democracy - that he considers that at the end of the work of this special parliamentary committee, the answers of whom are called to testify, will be 'I don't know anything' and that the final conclusion will be something like 'no'. He should feel anxious because these supported PASOK comrades in another case, in another examination, of another Minister of National Defence. Then there were the phrases that have been said that this is a platitude, that it attempts to break the political faces and ministers of PASOK in Defence, and that what was launched as a political and criminal platta, as a matter of fact, has now evaporated. These were the typical phrases that had been said at the time. The then Minister of National Defence, who would listen to these, is sure that there is no case against him, if he is following our work today, probably following them through a Korydalus cell. What we are debating today and what I hope will also be the end of this special parliamentary committee, is a part, a vote in the puzzle of lawlessness and easy corruption that has prevailed for many decades in the country's economy and political life. Because we are talking about corruption and possible interference in the area of military armaments, then we are obviously talking about a large number of this puzzle. I would remind you that the issue of corruption and the usual practice of mediation was referred to by parliament at the beginning of the meeting of the Committee on the Accounting Control of Debt in April 2015, the then Minister responsible for combating corruption, Mr. Nicoludis. In particular, he said about market blackouts in defence equipment: "It is well known that in many cases, the Ministry of National Defence, the illegal commission or a hate, which was given to Greek officials, in order to illegally contribute to the development of these contracts, was on average 4%. The loss to the Greek State, he added, "billions". These contracts were signed, outside the country the money came and some through the country were illegally collected. Is there scope for investigation? There is. Let us remember that any offences against money laundering, if found, have not been filed, remain. More than that, the practices of the Greek people due to 25% of the current debt, the bleeding of the Greek economy, the mockery of the Greek people, are not taken away from the memory of the Greek people. 25% of the Greek debt is due to these costs, as it had been identified in the Committee on Economic Affairs at the end of 2003, the then Minister of Economy Mr Christodoulakis, who said that at least twenty-five units of public debt were due to defensive costs. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] On the basis of the data from the International Institute for Peace and Disarmament, Greece has been the leader of these defensive expenditures for many years. Ladies and gentlemen, because time has elapsed, I would like to say that I am sure that the Special Committee will go to the end of its work to reveal the flows of black money, the demonstrable routes to hide the hatred, to reveal the signatures that dedicate the contested decisions, to show the links of political with economic and business interests, which undermine, not only the stability of the economy, but also the worthwhile, ultimately, the Armed Forces, to come to light, not only the description, but also the identity of interlocutor and corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u214	The Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, Mr Kammenos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today is an important day. Once again the government of SYRIZA - Independent Greeks "smears the eggs" to make the political omelet. We have remembered in the last forty years few committees of inquiry, let alone essential committees of inquiry. A huge committee with SIEMENS saw how it closed and left too many 'urses' behind. We are now being called upon to study the large volumes of these data that have come to Parliament. Of this I managed to read almost 70% myself. I have stayed on some key points, which, like previous speakers - after watching all the speeches - make us impressed in the wrong way that the governments of the nationalist Mr.Sheite managed to take down this country and come here today to analyse where we will find money for pensions, for EKT and for tax free when he discovered the swaps with GOLDMAN SACHS and then made us the defensive swaps. I mean, he was hiding the debt. Where to start? We don't get 12 hours, not 12 minutes. These governments over those years have shown criminal behaviour, as shown by the documents, on the dispersion and feasibility of the use of public money. When we and all of Greece were accused, all Greek citizens, of living above our capabilities, the main responsible, the dog tie with sausages, stock exchanges, armaments and so forth, was Simitis. It was neither Panos Kammenos nor Karamanlis nor George Papandreou. He wasn't one of them. Shite tied the dogs up. With who? With Mr. Papantoniou as Minister of Finance and Mr. Luke Papademos as a central banker, who signed the signature of a capital loan with a cape of 15 million drachmas then by code. I would also like to correct my friend, Mr. Papachristopoulos. Mr Papachristopoulos, 170 billion lost, euros, not drachmas. On the stock exchange, the recapitalisation started at 55 billion and reached 175 billion. We lost 170 billion euros. We lost eighty companies in the intervening period. She's not here. I think that will also be the case. Two hundred fifty companies ended up in the hundred and seventy. Crime was lasting. Public money plundering platforms have been set. They were all thrown into the responsibility of the ministers, which did not exist, as the responsibilities of the ministers were magically deleted, at least the felony and the criminals. If anyone reads the texts, he will wonder why he lives in this country. He'll wonder, for example, about the frigates. Michel Joseran testified to the French court that he gave 9 million hatreds to Greece to the Minister of State in Cyprus. He told the French court and he almost went into jail. Everybody's been through here, Candace, etc. They gave the misery back. Fortunately we have come to the government and we are opening up these issues. We've gathered a bill of hatred. Candace has given up all over the world. Nobody cares. Mrs Stamatis came out the day before yesterday and described in a very nice way, which reminds me of a beautiful film of a lot of millions, Mr Simitis, and also accused Mr Georgios Papandreou. That's what Mr. Tsohatzopoulos's wife did. No D.A.'s taken care of. The Greek citizen when we go out to the café asks us: “What are you doing out there? What does the D.A. do?’ Is it possible for the wife of a supposedly funded Minister of PASOK to blame his Prime Minister, the Head of the CYSEA - and I will be there - for the collective deletion or collective irresponsibility that they showed behind the collective responsibility of the CYSE? Who made decisions? We have a lot of work to do in this special parliamentary committee that will emerge. It doesn't stop in faces. We'll find the flow of money. The people who set tens to hundreds of offshore will be found. The role of Mr. Oswald, who came and left, Mr. Lyinou, Mr. Metaxas, who set up companies here and there, will be explored again, all those who had the mechanisms and the teachers, so that those who had to proprietary public property money could hide them and never show up and never get caught. All this will look like. From there on, we read Mr Papantoniou's letter yesterday. I regret to read this letter. You come out in public and you say that this committee is being set up - some of us will read, I imagine, the procedural documents - why are they blaming you for joining the euro? Let me tell you what ELSTAT's report says in 2004 on page 15 to 17, what does it say when it started closing PASOK's accounts from 2003 to 2004? You want me to read to you what they said, what did they find and how the equipment were going through? It's three pages. There's a sign in the back. We've known them since we were out. It's been our job. From 1997 - it has the table here - by 2003 there are 7 billion missing a year, it is endless. They hid them with swaps, they were going further. They said we can't go out and say we're receiving fifty tanks today, so we're paying for them. And they sent the payments thirty, forty years later! Deutsche Bank and Dresner Bank had come, the other magical good banks - only German banks, only German tanks without ballast, other missiles were elsewhere - and they hid the debt. ELSTAT comes in and says: children, you miss 7 billion every year and you do nothing. Every year, EUROSTAT visited Greece. EUROSTAT came every four months and said to Greek ELSTAT: “What are you doing here with the accounts? Why are you passing cash? Why don't you think of it as consumer? What are you doing? Why are you hiding the equipment?" Who is to blame for hiding the equipment and hiding Greece's public debt? The public debt has been hidden and EUROSTAT has a responsibility. What has EUROSTAT done with a German boss all these years? Would anyone say'put EUROSTAT and the Finance Ministers and the State General Accounting Office in prison because they are cheating on Europe'? If that was what German Radermacher should have said, Krauss Maffei should not take the job. The French shouldn't have taken the boats, nor should the Americans take the Apache. Nobody should have taken anything because there was no regularity. They came here to tell us how we borrowed? Is it possible, ladies and gentlemen, to discuss when there is evidence? There are no signs, but there are proofs - they are written themselves - that PASOK probably deceived them by synergy from EUROSTAT - I do not take them out - the Greek public and all of Europe by hand of Papantoniou and Symitis. The Minister of Finance was in those years and the Minister did not spend the expenses and did not spend it as a public debt and sent them "Saint...." which they say at the cafes, so that we, our children and our grandchildren can find them. That was the PASOK government and will they now tell us that it is our fault and you come and make us a foretaste why we put you in the euro? Do you want me to tell Mr. Papantoniou what happened at night with the ecu that was my job at the time, who came out and said they knew only fifty? Mr. Voridis, if you remember, only fifty - says - they found out at night. No one should have known that the next day we were in the euro, nor the two exchange-rate differences from the ecu, which reached 345 out of 212 in drachmas. Crimes have occurred. We'll figure it out slowly. As far as public debt is concerned, all this has been done and will be checked. There is - I say again - a category of French CEO of THALES, who along with the Greek shipyards took the agreement on freshwaters and sworn to France that he gave 9 million misasa to Cyprus. He also has names of Greeks. I'm not saying it here now, it doesn't matter. We'll find the route. What debt? I present the ELSTAT document for the Minutes. It's three pages. You will also read for others, but pages 15 to 17 are related to only the equipment they found, the Simitis and the Yiannos. Only for the equipment. Leave it to me how they hid taxes, etc., there's stuff in it. [[At this point, MP Dimitrios Kammenos presents for the Minutes the above document, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice.]] What was the amount of equipment between 1993 and 2004? One says 25 billion, another says 35 billion, another says 50 billion, and one. Why doesn't anyone know? Because it's classified if we're gonna get no lesions? Why is it classified if we are to modernise five old frenches instead of taking three new ones? Why is public debt classified? The time will come for them to be revealed, because I have in my hands the official evidence of how Mr Simitis had done with GOLDMAN SACHS. I have all the paintings, what he did exactly and where he did it. It is impossible to control, because everything was going through part-sessions - EUROSTAT says so - and they put it whenever they wanted, with a cover-up of EUROSTAT. The year came, in 2004 with 2009 - I will say it for the most part - of the government of Costas Karamanlis in those years. Everything will come here: ELSTAT and George and all those who went through and Mr. Sardelis' DRD. I'll say the names, 'cause I'll call them tomorrow. I don't know if you know Mr. Sardelis. He's now president of the National Insurance Agency. Mr. Sardelis was the first commander in DPRKH when there was no DPRK in Greece and then we were looking for what the Greek bonds did. The DPRK was created by PASOK with Mr. Sardelis. We will see how the work was done then and how they hid the debt to the DPRK at that time, with GOLDMAN SACHS. Greece is coming to pay 195 billion debts in 2005-2009, debt-savings. From 2004-2009, five years 195 billion interest! Whose? Has Greece borrowed 195 billion in those years and had to pay them back? Whose was it? Equipment and other accounting terminology and other expenditure of previous PASOK governments, particularly Mr Simitis, from 1993, 1996 to 2004! We didn't put the Olympiad in! They've come to pass as compensatory benefits - to your God, anyway! - the translations of books, two and a half million! The check comes in and says 'children, the translations of the books two and a half million cannot be compensated'. You can't charge me a hundred euros on the page, my Minister! Two hundred euros the translation page - to your God! - Ladies and gentlemen! It has 15, 20 euros out, and the unemployed students in English and German literature are, unfortunately, making it 8 euros. They charged 200 euros the translation page and cut them off the compensatory costs and what happened? The Greek state did not have the money to exercise a national defence policy. There are two questions and there are other responsibilities, and I will only mention two others later, so that I don't eat your time. One responsibility: Why was the Greek defence industry left behind? Who's responsible for this? I am not talking about jobs, I am not talking about why they were not co-productions, I am not talking about why we said 'no' to Eurofighter and other issues if we were to say right or wrong. I'm talking about why we stayed strategically back, and the Turk right now does everything on his own, and he brings Apache and he brings F-16 and he does the Ruffs, he'll do whatever he likes. Why? Why does he have a less devalued pound and a currency of his own and it is not in the euro? Because there is a national strategy, colleagues! Here the strategy was for the Greeks not to do anything, give the hate and do it all out, and when I'm missing money from the compensatory amounts, and when, for example, the Leopards were four hundred compensatory payments and a six hundred and a half commission were cut off from the compensatory amounts, who lost that money? Billions, wrong codification, wrong proposal, wrong code to pass the compensation revenue. No work in Greece for any reason. For which Imia should we say? They burned the flags, burned the Army, and then ordered the world's billions of weapons. Read Mr Papantoniou's speech in November 2001 in the debate on the Parliament's budget. This speech to read, see over there what it says about defence systems and how we need to modernise the Army and what we need to do. The prologue was awesome. We're here to find a solution. We're not going to spare anyone. This government did not give or go out to say "you all buy shares now - because the PASOK knows, because the economy is going well - to the seven thousand units" and we lost 170 billion euros. What our statements are today, ladies and gentlemen, we have lost them on the Stock Exchange, EUR 170 billion, and they have gone to fifty - eighty businessmen. These, together with the surrogates, the companies and all the systems that have been set up, will be found, because we know how to look and no one holds us anywhere. I am pleased that there is responsibility and co-responsibility, but we will not be pleased with anyone, because - I will say it once again and say what they want - the wilderness of everything was Mr Simitis. He's coming in tonight to make us the prelude to go to elections. It comes to SKAI tonight, after everything we say here, telling us "children" is not going well. Should we go to elections, why don't I see it a little bit?" Are we serious? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u216	Mr Mavroudis Voridis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u217	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA is also falling apart within this framework of its collapse and exodus. With the famous conversation "Belologian" I'd like to inform you that we don't bite. It is the agony of seeking a left alibi, since they no longer have anything to say about this audience. Suddenly, then, it was discovered that the alpha movement or beta movement to the appeased left audience must be made. That makes sense. When you were elected with a specific agenda and apply it exactly backwards, when you said you were going to tear down the memorials and end up voting, when you said that you would abolish the HNPH and apply it, when you said you would quit, if you went down the tax-free, and you were about to take it down, all of a sudden and Belogannis would remember the Velouchiotis too, you would remember the Republican Army, and everything you could remember, even if you could keep a flow on that side. So, warmly, a request to my good colleagues who really say what? Something simple, however, that this concerns the history of one side and cannot have the presumption of neutrality President of the Greek Parliament behaves like this. The answer is that the presumption of neutrality was simply lost. The President of Parliament shall behave as representatives or representatives or as an attempt to represent one side. It's his political matter. We see him and we make our criticisms there. In the same context, the body of examinations, pre-examinations and other examinations and follow-ups is included. Since we don't have to discuss politics, can we not talk about anything else? Shouldn't the ball go to the crate? Don't there be some kind of criminalization? Watch why I'm saying this. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand, of course, that someone wants - and rightly so - to elect all the things of anyone - and they do well. Look out, this is what we're working on. Finally, because this criterion prevails, we are voting in favour of this proposal. But I will say something, because we are lawyers and my colleague here, the Minister, also has the status, and I hope he has not forgotten it. I read from the proposal to set up a special parliamentary committee on the third act: ‘Convention concluded in September 2003 on this subject... Therefore, there are indications of infidelity.’ I am addressing my colleagues now. ‘So what?’? ‘Since the conclusion of the contract’? ‘Is there any evidence of infidelity’? But you have not bothered to go and see the dissolutions, to make at least a copy of the parliaments for others. Is this case introduced here? You ask this House for its judgment? Be careful, because where are we? Do you want us to condemn - did it by my colleague earlier - during the Simitis period? To condemn it politically, with both hands, we condemn it. From there on, is this the process we have here today? Do you know where we are from a procedural point of view? Does Parliament today know where it is with your proposal? It's like the D.A., who's received a report and has to assess it. How's the D.A. doing here? It says: the first question is to investigate whether there is a crime. Look out, I still don't have an indictment. I'm investigating whether there's a crime. 'Preliminary examination' we say this in the procedural procedure. I found that there might be a crime. What am I doing? I have to judge that there are simple signs of guilt. ‘Complete terms’. Why? To move the criminal prosecution. Then I move her. There's the move of criminal prosecution. A preliminary interrogation and a main interrogation shall be ordered. It's over. Is it introduced or directly or by an adjunct - as appropriate - where now? If there is simple evidence of guilt, strong evidence of guilt has become. I take her to the audience, to the court, and to the court for his conviction must no longer be omitted from any doubt, no more evidence. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Do I have some time, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u218	Mr. Voridis, go on, it's just good to shorten up, because time will start to push soon. We will also enter the circle of Members of Parliament's groups.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u219	Good. I'll be briefed. I'm saying that's the process. So here, or you should say: 'You know on the basis of this, I would like to investigate whether any action has been taken', so we do not do preliminary examination, so we have no indictment - but you said here that we have a defendant - or we make a text in which at least to judge that there are simple indications. How? With this introductory text? By the way, I should like to inform my colleagues of something else. This is where the ‘Ne bis in idem’ principle applies. What's that? You can't exercise twice the same criminal prosecution. Do you know what you've done? That doesn't change now. That's the charge, that's what's going. It doesn't change. Watch out now. Were you going to relieve him in advance? Because that's the only reason why this text is justified when you don't want to have effective control. It's criminal. It's criminal. Have you decided to close it beforehand? Look out, I'm going to the subject of "love" research. Of course, there are amounts. Of course it's an investigator. Only the amounts must be linked to a principal operation. Of course, the 'leafing' has not been omitted. But when is there an unregistered lieutenant that has not been eradicated? When is that? What does the Marble Ice say to us? But when I have one main act. Without the main act it is 'loofing', even if it is not unregistered, it is not. When describing the main actions in this way, then what do you do? In fact, you also cancel the "love", since you have not adequately described the main actions. Did this happen deliberately? Are you in any agreement? You're talking? It doesn't explain any other way. Let me say something. I cannot claim here that Mr. Contonis does not know. To say he doesn't know why he's not involved in the parliamentary procedure, he didn't make it. Mr. Lappas doesn't know? He hasn't signed it. It's guarded. Mr. Paradise, doesn't he know? You have distinguished lawyers to tell you. Did they tell you that? So it can't be unreasonable. That's right. There's a point here. It can't be explained otherwise. Or something else: If there is no need to cover this, then the political events are so pressured on you, you are being suffocated, and so you are obliged to make such a pretext, to serve your political needs and to compensate for the collapse you are suffering from. We say 'Yes', giving a political priority here, does not consider that we are interested in covering anyone. But now we need to talk a little bit seriously between us in this Chamber. So things are not going far, so the people who are watching say at the end, when nothing comes out: "Oh, that's a hawk too!"
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u220	Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Pafilis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u221	Mr President, because there were personal reports, will you give me the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u222	Here you go, Mr. Paraskevi, what do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u223	Mr Vorides made a personal reference to me and Mr Lappa with acknowledgment of feasibility, because in the opinion of Mr Vorides there is no clear description of the actions and the indications. I would like to say that even in the case where he mentioned exemplarily, where a contract is mentioned and then it is stated that there is infidelity, it is said that the signature of the project involved a reduction in the coverage of the rate envisaged and that is the indication that there may be infidelity. Obviously, Mr. Voridis didn't read the whole paragraph.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u224	Good. Mr. Pachilis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u225	Mr President, may I take the floor because there was a personal reference?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u226	It's not personal now, Mr. Voridis. Excuse me. I gave the floor to Mr. Paphie. Mr. Pallis will start, and we have a course ahead. Look, time is starting to push. The Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups will be here in a moment, not more than an hour, perhaps less. Two Ministers want to be placed. There are Members of Parliament, there are three - four of them registered to speak yet. So don't eat it like this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u227	Mr. Voridis, all right, that's understandable. Ping pong is now known. And because you spoke...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u228	No, it's not a Ping Pong thing. Mr. President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u229	I'm starting to talk now. That thing can't be done now. Then when I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u230	Two minutes to say one thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u231	Not when I'm done. After giving me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u232	That is not the parliamentary procedure. Mr. Paradise answered on his personal grounds...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u233	To erase the time...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u234	Excuse me, Mr. Voridis, you are experienced and old MP. You know under the Rules of Procedure what the use of 'personnel' means. So it is not a personal matter, and Mr Pafilis continues.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u235	Mr. President, may I? Because I know and respect the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u236	No, I won't allow you. Would you allow someone to interrupt when you started talking? I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u237	Can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u238	Mr. Voridis, no. I'm not giving you the floor! Respect the Bureau! The parliamentary representative will be finished and then if you want to answer to take the floor for a minute. Mr. Paphie, here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u239	I request the floor on staff, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u240	Only I have the reason for it now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u241	Do you understand what we're telling you?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u242	Now, is this story going to end?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u243	Can I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u244	Sit down!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u245	Okay now, that's not things.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u246	Mr. Voridis, sit down. Do not write anything Mr. Voridis says. But I'm sorry. Now I'm gonna use some other expression. You interrupt Parliamentary spokesman, a colleague who went up to the Step and started talking. You wouldn't even accept it. What is happening is unacceptable! It's unacceptable what you're doing now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u247	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u248	Did you hear what I told you? To finish Mr. Pallis, and I'll give you the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u249	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u250	Uh, excuse me, whenever you want to take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u251	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u252	Oh, no, of course not! Come on, Mr. Palphie, start.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u253	To erase time and double, please, because of Mr. Vorides.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u254	Mr Pafile, six minutes you are entitled to because the President of your parliamentary group spoke.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u255	Mr. Voridis, since you made this fuss and talked about disorientation, it's a tested recipe. You used it, too, as a government, New Democracy, as well as PASOK. Every time things get cornered, you can also put an examination for disorientation. Of course, we do not ignore the fact that there is a matter, but feasibility is characteristic and is followed by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, as in other key political areas, the same steps. We understand that, too. It also serves other purposes. The most serious, in our view, beyond party controversy is that this whole story of Scandalology is what it is trying to do? To acquit the capitalist system itself. This is done deliberately by too many, to load the crisis. Here are things that are incredible, scientifically - I do not mean politically - that Greece has come this far because of the hatred and corruption, that the entire capitalist world, that is, which has deep and unsurpassed crisis and which is being prepared to come the biggest and most synchronized, has suffered from 2% of the hatred. Hey, no! So here's a good service you've offered to the system itself. There's nothing like that. We don't ignore it. There is, of course, the essence of the crisis and the situation that both the Greek people and the peoples of the world are the capitalist crisis, the deadlock, the rotting of a system that is reactionary from above to below, which can give nothing to the progress of humanity. We, therefore, always, in addition to certain exceptions which are political in nature, agree that this committee should be set up, investigated, we are trying to contribute to the fullest possible and in line with the information we have - because we are not in the system - to make some of these aspects of scandals, corruption, if any. However, what does experience show? Generally, ‘they’ are called ‘they’. The system when it's in danger, closes and doesn't let many things go. At best, they sacrifice an Iphigenia, so people can say that "to someone who has been caught" and to continue unintentionally the whole function of corruption and hatred, which is intertwined with the capitalist system that they need. Apart from terrorism, apart from the imposition, for the engine to move, it also needs oil. Let's just say it so people can understand. Oil is mitigating, connecting, in other words, the interests of monopolistic groups, large companies with political staff and mixing, so that they can take jobs from some other monopolistic companies. If anyone here says, "But what are you saying?" You know, the "LOCKHEED", this giant, gave a press conference. We have them in writing. And what did he say? That he bought, paid seventy-five UN governments to sell his own planes. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You've made a mistake in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u256	Mr. Paphie, I didn't make a mistake in time. Mr. Koutsubas has been ahead of us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u257	No, you were wrong in two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u258	The time you were deprived of our conversation with Mr. Voridis, I will give him to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u259	Good. Give us a margin. We have the rapporteur and no speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u260	We'll give you the margin, Mr. Paphie. But I'm telling you about the six-minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u261	Okay. We know you're objective as opposed to others. So I keep going. What is the biggest scandal in this case for the Greek people? Of course, it's the misery, corruption, the money that some might have taken or didn't get or how much they took. The biggest is the billions, the astronomical sums paid by the Greek people, the worker, why is he paying for them, the professional, the poor farmer - the big ones paying nothing - for what reason, then? For the defense of the country? What do we say? We say that military and war spending should be directed towards defending our country's borders and sovereignty. Is that so? Is this expenditure linked to NATO and the European Union? Yes or no? Let's see. Very simply questions will be put and put fundamentally: What has NATO decided? It decided that 40% of each member country's Armed Forces should be rapid intervention forces. For what? Are they defending the borders? Oh, no. Has the government applied this and the previous ones and this? Yeah, she did. So the Greek people pay this modernisation of the aggressive forces for NATO plans and not for defending the country's independence and borders? The second issue. Thirteen war missions from Greece outside the border who serves? They're protecting the border? Oh, no. Who pays them? The Greek people. It's been about billions all these years. Is this related to the country's defence or to the aggressive imperialist plans by NATO and the European Union? Let every reasonable man answer. Thirdly, what are the weapons systems and what are the main weapons that Greece is taking from what sources? Are they largely determined, not to say 90%, by the country's membership of NATO? Yes or no? There are natonic standards. They're telling you that they have to touch all the weapons with the naval data? Yes or no? Let them answer. Here's Mr. Drits. If there are soldiers too, let them stand up and say so. Still how much we get depends - and I will give examples - on our country's membership of NATO. As far as the Leopards are concerned, it's a huge scandal. Leopards are heavily armored. They only move in plains. When we got them, when that market was decided, there were no bridges to pick them up. Can we defend the Leopards islands? No, they can't. Beyond the huge problems they have, and I don't want to say them, because I don't have time, starting with fire damage, from blows on the tracks, from huge problems, from a lack of ammunition. Why did we get them and they couldn't take some other armored ones and why so many? Even the top officers of the armored say it's too much and they didn't need that much. Another combination is needed for the country's defence based on the peculiarities that exist. Huge conversation is about TO - M1 and S -300. They almost didn't work, because they didn't "collapse" with the natonics. Another big debate is about the freshmen. How many big do we need? We needed some great weather conditions so they could go. But there was a lot of talk about it. However, large wells were imposed in total. It is still amazing - and I say it for those soldiers who may hear - that gun calibres are related to this. It's trying to force NATO 5.56, a small caliber instead of 7.62 there, which is mostly a defensive weapon. Why? For enterprises in the urban environment. These are the specifications that NATO gives and is trying to impose, that is to say, to fly the GA-3 which it has and which is a Greek production. That's enough. Say, what was the conversation about the planes, the F-16 the Suhoi and others? However, specific weapon systems which are not primarily related - not to say completely - to the defence of the country were imposed and imposed by our participation in NATO. Furthermore, Minister, really, how many Greek ships - not Mr. Kammenos here - are missing on naval missions? With such an intensification of the current situation, why should Greek warships be involved in naval missions, when, if something happens in the Aegean Sea, they cannot come back? These are some examples showing what equipment has to do with NATO. What does the European Union have to do with the defence industry? A trick for all of you Europeanists and Euroligers. What is the European Union's decision? To be sub-contracted. It is five countries that will produce everything and the others will be slaves. They'll make supplements. Could Greece have a serious defence industry? To cover not all - it is impossible with its size - but too many aspects of its defence, because it has know-how and scientific staff. The anti-aircraft project that we are producing has been made by Greek and the Americans have shut it down I don't know how many years, so do the Israelis. Yes or no, Minister? Could Greece cover other needs? It could be. But it can't be. They won't let you. Here we are not allowed to repair warships from other countries, but ours in the shipyards. Furthermore, with all this, you are all told "Having the European Union and NATO"! Why? Here is the question, and he answers what Mr Javaras and Mr Tasoulus said about democracy and its defence, which was done on the occasion of the Belogannis issue. That is why you want NATO and the European Union. Because NATO is the armed hand of imperialism, the iron fist that ensures the domination of 10% of the world's population, which holds 90% of the world's GDP, which ensures the domination of 10% of Greece's bourgeoisie and the inverted, with 60% of Greek GDP. That's why you're for the benefit of both of us and you who're here now. This is what supports NATO and the European Union: the interests of the bourgeoisie. Greece does not drag behind international obligations because it belongs to an environment and everything they say. It drags away, because the interests of the Greek capital are best guaranteed by both NATO's weapons and the European Union's own political and normal weapons. These were then judged, ladies and gentlemen, for the Belogan period. I would like to say to Mr Tasouula, who speaks of a communist dictatorship, that we had the people on our side. We had more than 80% of the Greek people. Unfortunately, we were wrong, and we didn't get the power. Not you personally, but the Greek bourgeoisie, the English and the Americans escaped. Why did they get away with it? For the people to live well? Oh, no! To ensure their own interests and interests of the donors, those who worked with the Germans and who came out rich after the occupation, when the Communists and many other Greek patriots spilled their blood and fought against the conqueror.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u262	Mr. Palphie, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u263	I shall conclude, Mr President. That is the historical truth. With regard to the Golden Dawn, they do not have the courage to say 'yes, we are chillers, we believe in fascism'. Because they believe him. They have clawed crosses on their arms, they have parties and they have relationships with Germans. What's that mocking? Do they have such enthusiasm? Go out and say I'm him. So, let's talk about Beloganne. I won't say any big words. The war of 1940 is being declared. Beloganne and the communists are in Acronauplia. They're asking to go fight, and Metaxas doesn't allow them. The Germans are entering Greece. The Metaxas regime - because Metaxas died - delivers them to the Germans and him and Zachariadis and thousands of other communists and the Germans, of course, send them where they are sent. What's going on next? Beloganne and other communists are escaped. When Greece's bourgeois class went to Egypt and carried the gold of Greece, when Greece's bourgeois parties were silent, or some of them worked together, or others were waiting to see what would happen, come out into the mountain, build ELAS and fight the conqueror. What was their reward? The intervention of the English in Greece. What did the political ancestors of the Golden Dawn do then? Then they collaborated with the Germans, then they wore the hood in the Red Bloc and they showed with their hands and shouted the slogans "Glory and honor to the hippies and to the battalions". That's what the youth knew how the story itself was written. We understand, they can't digest. This dishonest picture of the hammerhead in Reichstag, the heart of the Hilleric monster, Hitler's suicide and the victory of the Red Army, can't be a nightmare in their dreams. So because someone has had the nerve - and here someone understands - to say they will break down, when they come, this house of Belogannis, we want to tell them that they will be destroyed by the Greek people in Tartaras, and not only will they never come, but they will disappear and go to the trash can of history, as they own them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u264	Mrs Christophilopoulou has the floor from the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u265	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u266	Until Mrs Christophilopoulou comes to Step, I will make a statement to this House. The Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to Parliament, in accordance with Rule 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 ‘Prime responsibility of the Ministers’, as is the case, on 28-3-2017: 1.Proceedings concerning the former Minister of Finance, Mr Ioannis Stournaras and Mr Ioannis Stournaras 2. Criminal proceedings concerning the former Prime Minister Antonis Samaras. Mrs Christophilopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u267	Mr President, you have not given me the floor either.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u268	I'm sorry?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u269	You told me that after Mr. Palphie, I would speak, but now you're not giving me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u270	Yeah. And I told you, too, that it is not a personal matter. It's not personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u271	Before judging, don't you want to hear it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u272	No, I don't want to hear you. Now, Mr. Voridis, are we going to this story? Please. They are three - four speakers, there are the Members of Parliament and the Ministers, and we will be in the process of intervening with the chairmen of the parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u273	What can I say, Mr President? Well, I'll leave it to my colleagues' judgement.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u274	Now, if you'll excuse me, do you feel unjusted from above? Come on, Mrs. Christophilopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u275	What can I tell you? Here we can't talk anymore. Mr. Paraskevi gets the floor on personal grounds, says something about me, and I cannot answer Mr. Paraskevilos. Isn't that right? That's forbidden!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u276	Mrs Christophilopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u277	Yes, Mr. President. I just don't want to be interrupted because I have a little time. But let's go back to today. What we are seeing today, ladies and gentlemen, is a set of actions by the present SYRIZA Government - ANEL for exams, many exams. After the finalised Committee of Inquiry into SMEs and parties, which he has not succeeded - he has gone! - to conclude political responsibilities, we have the current examination we are discussing on defence issues in the Ministerial Republic of Yannos Papantoniou and, of course, it comes - the Prime Minister has announced us - the health examination. Well, she'd better come too. Only it's now obvious what you're doing when you cut the ESS into four hundred thousand pensioners. What exactly are you doing, when they've put your knife in your throat and in addition to the additional 12.5 billion euros you've loaded on the backs of the Greek people, are they asking you for a fourth, essentially, memorandum without funding? What can you do when the vote on the agreement, which will be closed, when we play a little bit on our communication, an agreement which has a tax reduction, has a cut-off on pensions and much more? What are you doing? Apparently, you're distracting. Well, obviously you're tactical. Because what you're gonna say and what you'd say to the world, so, in the world where you told him you'd be someone else, how you wouldn't cut pensions, but you'd give pensions, how you'd bring growth, and you'd play laundry and the markets would dance. After all these lies, after all this misunderstanding, unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, people are not interested. It is not interested and you will not collect what you hope to collect on the page whenever it comes. But how exactly do you use the committees of inquiry? A lot has been heard this morning by our parliamentary representative, Mr Loverdos, and by other colleagues, by various parties on the "fuck", the legal deed of the finding. Look, let's get this straight. We are going to say 'yes' or 'yes'. Do you know why we'll say 'yes'? Clearly for reasons of principle. All in the light. We have nothing to fear and we want transparency in everything. However, what the SYRIZA - ANEL Government does is a selective use of the committees of inquiry to sell the fairy tale of transparency. I have heard SYRIZA colleagues say they do not do so selectively. They do so for reasons of personal sensitivity, for reasons of democratic sensitivity. You're not telling me, today justice has prosecuted the CDC. Has anyone founded an ear, Minister of Justice? Nobody. Did you do something about that? Did you mind?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u278	What can we do, Mrs. Christophilopoulou?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u279	You want to interrupt me? Would you like to answer that later? As you wish!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u280	Because you're asking me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u281	As you wish, Minister. Also, Minister of Justice, when Mrs. Riku resigned, did you feel anything? Also, Minister of Justice, when they are systematically leaked into a particular newspaper, and in the newspaper 'DOCUMENTO', with good cooperation and your Deputy, Mr. Papagelopoulos, when these are channelled, are you feeling some sort of criminal proceedings? Is there anything you can do?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u282	Mercy. Mandrou ask.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u283	That's what's bothering you. You wanted us to take it to the beach. We're not taking this beach because you're not worth any consensus. No consensus! [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] Mr President, I am a little intolerable. In the face of your deadlocks and internal party dead ends, you want to turn through your exam engagement. You can't do that. We have tabled a proposal for a Committee of Inquiry into the economy. Not selective. It's starting from 2000. Why? Because then we entered the euro. All governments: both Simitis and Karamanlis and all subsequent governments of the Memorandum period. Because we want the truth to shine. Our governments too, yes. Do you vote for it, gentlemen of SYRIZA? Do you vote for it, gentlemen of the New Democracy? You, gentlemen of SYRIZA, why don't you say anything about that period of 2004-2009? Who do you cover and why? There's only one number I'll mention. Do you know that the deficits of the insurance funds in 2003 were EUR 503 million and in 2009 went to EUR 5.4 billion? They're tenfold! And you're telling us you're not signing this examination period. Optionally. We warn you - and I conclude with this - that all periods of health should be considered. And in 2004-2009 and, of course, what Mr Polakis' justice is prosecuting today, who is already playing it to us as a victim of the clientele. The first client! The appointment of the "dailys" became what was done in the CEDEFOP. So, what are you going to do for health? Because we will not accept selective and have filed petitions for both CEDEFOP and price, non-invoicing drugs in 2015. So let's see what your selective approach is. So this is where I want you. Vote on the economic examination and vote together on an examination of health, which will pass periods and parties if you really want to. The others don't listen to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u284	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-seven students and students and two educational attendants from the 1st General Lecterin High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Katsikis has the floor from the Independent Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u285	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, in an act of its commitment to examining all cases of corruption which led the country to impoverishment, tabled a proposal for a special parliamentary committee to investigate possible offences concerning equipment programs in the Minister, Mr. Ioannis Papantoniou. Our decision to shed plenty of light during the period of Constantine Site - Yiannos Papantoniou, during which the greatest plundering of public money with contracts for armaments may be carried out, is sincere. If the process of evidence reveals the guilt of any political person, who has, by action or omission, damaged the state and the people, there will be no immunity, but nothing. The tolerance of the whole political system will be zero. For the record, Giannos Papantoniou, during his term of office at the Ministry of National Defence from October 2001 to March 2004, had signed contracts for armaments with a total of EUR 6.2 billion. The proposal to set up a special parliamentary committee for preliminary examination shall be submitted following a number of procedural proceedings forwarded by the prosecutor to Parliament and the signatures of the indications of the crime against money laundering. This case, like others, concerns the money of the Greek people, which have been wasted for many years, depriving the country of valuable resources, of the Greek people's money, where their sweat, labor and blood were captured. According to the government's proposal, the offences for which there is evidence of infidelity for the period 2001-2004 relate to the supply of a hundred and seventy Leopard-type tanks, twelve Apache-type aggressive helicopters, 6 S-type fryers, war electronic systems, and 20 NH 90 transport helicopters. It is important to note that in all cases data have been identified which could give evidence of the production of assets from the act of infidelity and then money laundering. The name of the former Minister, Mr. Papantoniou, is listed on a list of depositors of a large amount of money, 1.3m euros, at the HSBC bank in the name of his wife, because it is a common bank account. It should also be noted that the acquisition of property in a non-legislative manner and its movement into the financial system constitute a permanent crime and therefore does not raise a question of limitation. The crossing of the Seminar, with the Stock Exchange, structured bonds, armaments, the lending of the media and parties, the great festival of the Olympic Games, is a popular requirement that bores on the back of us all. Taking into account and the fact that the former Minister was recently and irrevocably condemned for an inaccurate statement of ‘subject to’ the financial years 2008, 2009 and 2010, it is, for us, a sine qua non condition, that the proposed special parliamentary committee, as laid down in the provisions of Rule 153 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, should be set up pursuant to the will of the constitutional legislature, as reflected in Article 86 of the Constitution. In the pre-examination committee of the Parliament it would be appropriate to investigate the criminal responsibilities of the Prime Minister at the time, since all commissions were made on his own mandate and, of course, with his presence in the KYSEA, where the equipment programmes were decided. In conclusion, I would like to remind you of the prioritisation set by the Minister of National Defence - President of the Independent Greeks, Panos Kammenos, when he took up his duties in investigating the procurement of supplies of armaments. He was the first to speak openly, by name, and has not been disproved by the evolution of events. Missions to the justice of strange and sinful conventions have proved not to have been empty. I therefore call on the entire House to support the government's proposal and to vote for the recommendation of the Committee of Inquiry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u286	Mrs Theodora Megalo-Economics from the Centro Association has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u287	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate is particularly interesting, as it has many implications, since it concerns the setting-up of a special parliamentary committee to carry out a preliminary examination of criminal proceedings concerning the former Minister of National Defence, Mr Giannis Papantonis. Of course, it is still researchable at this stage whether or not Mr Papantoniou served as the Greek people should. However, from his memorandum, which sent to the Members of Parliament, with a view to countering the setting up of a competent committee, a number of questions arise. Of course I am not the one to suggest to the former Minister what he has to say about his defence. However, on the one hand, anyone who is truly innocent, on the other, is not afraid to face up to Greek justice - on the other hand - to remember the recent past - the last minister who strongly advocated that the burden of the criminal proceedings is due to a political prosecution today is in prison. I respect the presumption of Mr Papantoniou's innocence, but we cannot overlook that he has already been convicted of inaccuracies in his 'before'. Six felonies are currently pending against him in the House. Let us be told by my fellow Members if they know of a simple citizen who has already been convicted of offences, that he is also charged with six felony charges, and that the judge responsible should not have confiscated him. This is the first time. It's embarrassing to hide a former Minister behind the law on the responsibility of ministers. In addition, we need to talk about a non-responsibility law, not a ministerial responsibility. We must immediately review the relevant article of the Constitution, which essentially sets the fundamental principle, because all Greeks, as we know, are equal before the law. Even more outrageous is the former Minister's report that the House supposedly wants to control him for political reasons. This former Minister is no longer a Member of Parliament and has no active involvement in the political life of the country. So I do not understand exactly what a political persecution serves against it. Of course, I repeat, the former Minister is covered by the presumption of innocence and is left to Greek justice in any case to decide on criminal liability or not. But I really do not know if the former Minister is aware of how the argument to all of us that the special parliamentary committee will allegedly be slandered at the time of the rule of Simitis. I think the former Minister has not realised that most of the Greek society is not particularly interested in the time it is mentioned. The Greek people have connected at that time with a series of scandals succeeding each other. I'm not saying it. Justice says so. They confess to the members of this party who transferred money to the party's funds from supposedly sponsorships. In fact, the then Minister, Mr Simitis, let us not forget that he praised the Stock Exchange that it had reached 7 000, 8 000, 9 000 points and that it would have gone further. He was urging them to put their bloody economies on the Stock Exchange, while they already knew it was a bubble and they would lose their money. So they lost their money, and since then, the series of suicides began. He urged others to buy bonds of the Greek government - another bitter story - without considering and feeling any fear or shame that he exposed these poor confessors to great danger, to play the savings they had accumulated a lifetime. You know what happened. They just became poor and half died. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over, Mr Nikolaos BOUTSIS]] In any case, the Parliament and the Greek people demand and are entitled to know what happened at the time. The people demand explanations of the bankruptcy of the country, which these political choices have caused. Of course there is absolutely no reason to make sure that there is complete transparency in all procedures. I do not think there will be a Greek citizen who does not ask for an investigation and a responsibility, wherever they really do. This is of course not only about Mr Papantoniou, but about all the political persons who have been responsible and who have probably played a part in the collapse of our country. Everyone should also have the last word on Greek justice for all. Finally, let me have a personal report. In 2004, President Vassilis Leventis denounced the furnished economic bloom. In 2004 90% of the electorate voted only New Democracy and PASOK. Finally, I am very proud that our President has now been vindicated by revelations and history. We will continue until the end, until the Greek people learn the truth, be justified and those who have abused public money end up where they deserve it, clearly in prison. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u288	Thank you very much. [[Applause from the river wing]] Mr Psarian has the floor. Soon I'll announce all the order until the end of the meeting.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u289	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'm the last speaker, aren't I?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u290	You're the last of the circles.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u291	Yes, sir. We are talking about this committee of inquiry. I want to tell you a few things about the fraud of the committees of inquiry as a whole. Two people's confessions and a whole history of committees of inquiry are enough to convince the most skeptical one that the government's proposals to set up a committee of inquiry for equipment, as regards Papantoniou, or for health, as regards Georgiadis, which lure Loverdos, Abrahamopoulos, Kaklamanis and others for these periods, are nothing more than attempts to defraud citizens in view of the new tough measures at their expense. These goals have been chosen, because the New Democracy has been publicly stabilised at twice the rate of SYRIZA, while the PASOK again stings fans who had defected to SYRIZA. So these two parties must be punished and smuggled with official cloaks. In this irresponsible way, the "SYRIZANEXEL" follow the anti-democratic path of the Parliament, its work and its examinations, which are diverse democratic, on the altar of a party government interest, either to exterminate opponents or to disorientate public opinion on very serious issues, as New Democracy and PASOK did in the past. Do they have to be examined? Of course, it must be done, seriously and responsibly, which is totally lacking in the present political staff, in its overwhelming majority. For the Papantoniou case, the chairman of the 2005 Committee of Inquiry on Equipment, Mr. Tragakis, said: "We had fully documented the involvement of weapons purchased by the country and the involvement of the company of the well-known and Papantoniou at the procurement party in the Armed Forces. Unfortunately, that's where we stopped." That's what Mr. Tragakis said. What was the result of the stop? It was the limitation of the offences, according to the article, which relieved the ministers of the offences of infidelity if they were not referred to within two parliamentary periods. However, it has not been found for Giannos Papantoniou, despite the investigations by the Special Committee of Inquiry into the fight against corruption for five years. He was convicted of the 1 million who did not, unlike his colleague, SYRIZA, Mr Stathakis, who the House acquitted of the 2 million, who also did not state. What does that mean? Does it mean the former Minister of National Defence of PASOK has nothing to do with black money? We can't talk responsible for reality without evidence. In our conscience and in what we believe each one of us can also be guilty. On a judicial level he's still innocent. So the question arises: will the Members who do not know how to share the matter, the matter and account for responsibilities where the special interrogators failed? The government is aware of all this, which wants to make another dorot without result, as the recent examination of political money and the media and parties relationship, which simply cost the people thousands of euros for Members' participation in it. Between 1950 and today, twenty-four committees of inquiry have been set up. Of these twenty-four, only two resulted in referral and revenge: Andreas Papandreou and Athanasopoulos, for corn. Let's say what happened to the other twenty-two. What happened? What results did they have? Nothing. Do you want me to tell you who they were? It is a list of twenty-two inquiries with data and results. These are in the Minutes and they can be found by anyone who wants them. Of all these twenty-four committees and all these transparent and non-transparent issues, of which billions have been lost, one has been found by the prosecutor of justice and not by the House: Akis Tsohatopoulos. For today's? Pickle. Baroness responsibilities, public property sales for ninety years. We are digging all the previous ones - not all of them, some other things, we are not digging, because they are our friends - only to do a doro, in a way that, legally, as many have said, can lead to discharge. Examination committees or party committees? I want to ask this question here, before all of us. The Committees of Inquiry in fact are not committees of Parliament. They're government committees with findings from the parties. Each party is on its own score. This is ridiculous. Any government renounces previous or party parties that participated in previous and usually unreserved, just to become a dormitory. The conclusion of every examination is a nutshell. They're findings. Each party has its own findings. What exactly do we do? What are we playing? What is this role that we are trying to show the Greek people that we are doing cleansing and cleaning and we are self-cleaning? With these realities, the Government is making a request for a fifth-time examination of equipment and health. Is there a problem with this? There's a huge issue. There are huge responsibilities. Millions have been lost in deep, holes and unknown pockets. Is there a matter? There is a huge issue, as with every act of our public political life. But the exams are the last ones to make it clear. The twenty-two have not been cleared to date by twenty-four. On the contrary, once again, we will make a fool of it, as we have done before. In the end we will cover it up and the people will say in the street, good-faithful and bad-faithful: "Come on, but there they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are,they are,they are,they are,they are,they are,they are,they are,they are,they are,they are,they are,they are paying. This is a non-existent, a cultivated houndila, I have said it before, which turns against democracy and against parliamentaryism. In the end, we will cover it, to cover both the atoms or the impurities of our moral advantage, some of them, some of some of the strange newly intertwined "first time" of the "first time" Left of intertwining and corruption, the fiasco "voyage TV" or the chariot in the name of a journalist that the Minister of Government "SYRIZANEXEL" financed the operation of websites to support these project sites and highlight the great work of this government. So, when are we going to do tests? A week ago! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u292	Ladies and gentlemen, the procedure from now on is this, so that we can be within the limit of what we have said. They are the party presidents, some of the parliamentarians and two ministers. The turn is: Mr. Theodorakis, then Minister Vitsas, then President Leventis, then Parliamentary Representative Mr. Lappas, then Mr. Michaloliakos, then Mr. Loverdes in the position of Mrs. Gentimas, as a parliamentarian, as well as Mr. Panagiotis Kammenos, Mr. Dendias in the position of Chief of Officer of Anti-Population, the Prime Minister will be closed and the Minister of Justice will be closed. It is the classic procedure that has been followed for several years for the debate on the committees of inquiry. Please very much, Mr Theodorakis, you have the floor for 15 minutes, with the well-known elasticity.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u293	Yes, Mr. President. Two centuries ago, in 1824, Miaulis, the captain of the fleet, said the Navy needed new ships. Phillys in London offered to intermediate, so that we could get two steamed wells from America. They were worth £155,000. We'd pay them with a loan, of course, we'd get from England. After two years, the American shipyards asked for another £50,000. The government sent a banker, Alexander Contostall, to negotiate the price. Finally, in December of the same year in Greece, only one french and Contostallus, the banker, built a luxurious mansion in Klathmonos Square. Suspects were raised, tried and sentenced in 1835 to return to the Greek public the commission that had been discovered to be taken from the Americans. But he fled to Turkey, to Istanbul, and returned after eight years, with another government and, of course, he was acquitted. So equipment, hatreds, luxurious homes, escape abroad, courts, and finally bundle. It's that some things don't change in Greek history. Forty-one inquiries from the post-collection and eight inquiries into forty-three years of democracy. But, quite rightly, only four references emerged from the fifty surveys. And here's something wrong. Whether all these examinations are done or not the House dares to complete its work, that is to say, they are being examined for the eyes of the world, we are checking, but in the end impunity is guaranteed, with the help of, of course, the Law on the responsibility of the Ministers. We've also invented the world patent of separate findings. One exam, four findings, five findings, six findings. Each with its party line on the subject of committees of inquiry. Let's go to the Papantoniou case. Six procedural documents were sent to Parliament for equipment programs in the Papantoniou Ministry: tank supplies, Leopard II, helicopters Apache, electronic war systems and modernization of wells. The public damage seems to amount to hundreds of millions, 270 million euros for only four contracts. The supply of tanks was made through a company of Liakounakou, accused of having transferred millions to private accounts. In order to modernize the freshmen executive of the French company that took the project revealed that politicians were given the usual supply of 7% to 10%. So, should a special parliamentary committee be held for Mr Papantoniou? It's done. Many people say in society that this is a distraction, that the world is not concerned with the problems of the economy, with the everyday issues and with some scandals of the past. Obviously, some SYRIZA - ANEL officials may think so, but this does not mean for us, for Potami, that politicians and opposition must stop working on the uncovered scandals. And here's a scandal. I won't speak legally, it's not my role. Here, however, there are great questions and issues of moral order. I will be specific, ladies and gentlemen. The Swiss banks recently, as we are able to know, have notified the Greek authorities that there are three accounts in the name of Mr Papantoniou and his wife. The question of the Greek authorities was, of course, an old one, it was before SYRIZA - ANEL. The important thing, however, is the Swiss answer. Yes, there are three accounts with these names, and the Prosecutor of Antonis Eleftherianos from the Prosecutor of Corruption, after they learned about these three accounts, did a few days ago, on 13 March, an urgent request to the Swiss authorities for legal assistance, namely for the control of the three accounts. There is therefore a huge political issue for the former Minister, Mr Papantoniou. He needs to answer what these bills are, what money they have and what moves they have made. He says his party is being persecuted, that he is being persecuted for his political decisions. We've heard it before. We say that, in order to protect his party, in order to protect his political action, he has: he must now go out and give all the information about all the Swiss bank accounts and wherever else, he should not wait, namely, for the special parliamentary committee's conclusion not to wait for Parliament's findings and for judicial decisions. Perhaps the revelation we are making today for these three accounts by Mr Papantoniou is also the reason why Members of Parliament have suddenly moved from SYRIZA and ANEL. The Swiss authorities' response to the three accounts reached the Prosecutor of Corruption - logical - but it also went through the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and, obviously, it also reached the SYRIZA - ANEL, who said to initiate this procedure for a special parliamentary committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u294	Do you have these?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u295	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u296	Questions will be taken at the end of the debate. However, this debate must be an opportunity to reflect on how we understand the country's defence, starting with the defence budget. Be careful, please, the following elements. For equipment Greece spends 17% of the Ministry of Defence budget, while the average of the countries of the European Union is 24%. For arms conservation Greece spends 13%, while the average of the countries of the European Union is 24%. For infrastructure, Greece spends about 1% to 1.5%, while the average of the countries of the European Union is 5% to 6%. For salaries - here is the important - Greece spends about 70% of the defence budget, while the average of the countries of the European Union is about 50%. Don't make a mistake, we don't give much money to the military, we just have a lot of soldiers, mostly high-ranking. In particular, we have most generals in the world. The American army has six generals, we have eleven. We're just calling them Lieutenant General. It's the highest level the officers have in Greece. Israel is militarized, with almost twice as many Greeks as it has only one military commander. We - I repeat - have eleven. It's the client state, of course, here too. The great mass of officers - another problem we have to solve - are trained, retrained and demobilized to the extent of the Brigadier, that is, in practice at the age of fifty-two, fifty-three years. That's how we end up there's no money for where there's got to be money. Take note, ladies and gentlemen, the salary of the Chief of HNDGS is today, together with all allowances, travel expenses, less than EUR 3000, EUR 2 845. The salaries of the Heads of the three branches, together with which allowances, are EUR 2,500. I think it is disgraceful that people who hold the country's defence in their hands should take less than half a Member's salary. All this has to change. It must be fairer for expenditure to be assessed and we must stop buying weapons only for misery or for public relations. What do I mean? I'm talking about weapons we buy and they don't need to. In 1998 we bought 12 firearms from Slovakia, only 20 million euros! The Army didn't want them, and the guns went to Cyprus. The same was done with the six firearm radars, which were purchased under the Ministry of Tsohatzopoulos, directly assigned to an American company, only $ 130 million! The Army tried them, said they didn't do them, but the politicians insisted on buying them. The Navy purchased fast transport ships in 2004, known as Hovercraft. Two were purchased from Russia, two from Ukraine, at a total cost of 205 million, and these ships cannot sail at more than six boats. We just take them off sometime in the sun so they don't rustle. In other words, many other weapons have also been purchased, beyond any operational need. The Navy has been modernising six frigates - it is the contract that will also employ the committee - with the Scaramaga Shipyard contractor, as a sub-company of a French company. The Navy had decided that the program, technologically, operationally and economically, is inconsistent. The ships were already twenty, twenty-two years old. The work, however, proceeded with a political decision. So we've had wasted, like, a client state and billions of decades. The question is, however, multiple, ladies and gentlemen. Is that only Chohatzopoulos? Is it just Papantonius? These two are the exceptions, and in all the other supplies, the circuits backed up, and they didn't give hate? When are we going to find out the truth? However, there is another question concerning the current government. What's up today? All those who until yesterday were sharing hatred with the political people to get the works, are they suddenly retired? Has the way we decide what weapons we need changed? Has the arms market process changed? Nothing has changed. Only the money, perhaps, is less. We have said and will say it again: we need a National Security Council, with the participation of the leadership of the army and the political leadership, the government and the opposition. No more spent money on useless weapons. Cut off the thread that connects politicians and suppliers to defence, health and public works. But all this isn't going to happen with crustaceans. They all want a plan and, of course, want a conflict, not a conflict with the corruption of others, but a conflict with the corruption of the system. What has happened in recent months in the Bank of Attica and in the funds of the refugee and immigration crisis reveals that "SYRIZANELs" do not have the capacity, but above all do not have the will to collide with their system of corruption. They compromised and serve her. They insist on the government, for example, ladies and gentlemen, on the piles of immigrants and refugees, while the European Union has EUR 400 per family refugee for its feeding. We refuse to take that money and we will, we say, do it in May. Why in May? Why not yesterday? Why is the feeding of refugees a profitable business involved in companies that are "SYRIZANEL" that, under the urgency procedure, undertake hundreds of millions of dollars, broken into small pieces, so that it is almost impossible to control? Ladies and gentlemen, I have noticed that at some point Mr Tsipras tried to take responsibility for Costas Simitis. Obviously, it is of the opinion that the country would have gone better if Mr Tsohatzopoulos had won the battle. After all, Mr Tsipras' companion, Mr Kotsakas, clearly said so. He didn't say it in 1996, he said it now. He said so now that we know. Look out! At the beginning of November Mr. Kotsakas took over the political planning of SYRIZA. No problem, everyone chooses their members. What did he say? He said in November: "Yes, in 1996 I supported the candidacy of Mr. Tsohatzopoulos and did so consciously, because I saw the conservative turn of social democracy. And it turned out in fact that PASOK would also make a conservative right-wing turn. In this respect, I mean, as far as the rule of Simitis is concerned, 'I have been entitled to the result'. Mr. Kotsakas, Mr. Chochatzopoulou's closest colleague and SYRIZA's chief executive, does not feel the need to say a single word and a single word, all these years, about the money that ended in the politicians' pockets. It says, however, 'I was entitled to support Mr Tsohatzopoulos'. Is that the government's view too? Is that Mr. Tsipras's view? Better Ace than Cigarette? Ladies and gentlemen, Potami will vote 'yes' in the special parliamentary committee and its Members will try to reveal, even within this procedure, the truth. We will do the same for any other case with a trigger smell. We'll collide with all the blue pages of the past and of the present. Society needs to know where its money ends and, above all, society needs to retrust itself to a political system away from hatred and shadows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u297	Thank you, Mr. Theodorakis. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after being informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House, and toured to the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS", thirty-four students and students and four school attendants from the Netherlands, from Hyperion Lyceum. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The reason for this is the Deputy Minister of National Defence Mr. Dimitrios Vitsas.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u298	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I cannot escape the challenge that has taken place today in this House in the debate. I am referring to what the President of Parliament and I myself, with particular surprise, heard yesterday's report on Nikos Belogannis. I won't expand. A lot has been said. But I made a conclusion, and I want to share it with you. Nikos Belogannis, a member of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Greece, a fighter of EAM and ELAS, lives in 1952 by illegal execution. He lives and, not only, he's alive, but he's scared. It frightens this hero of every democratic man, every left-wing man, who has fought for freedom from all democratic factions, all those who in their minds and daily practice only have the procedures of oppression, slavery, authoritarian procedures and, of course, it scares fascists and Nazis. I think that report was necessary. Let's get to the point. There is a special parliamentary committee. Is it like a diversion? I draw a second conclusion from that. In most parties or in most political forces, the perception of the possibility of a crisis of Greek and Greek citizens remains the same. They think he's handsome, that he can't judge, he can't separate, he can't tell. The same goes for exams. I've heard twice in the last ten minutes that there have been so many exams, so many pre-examinations. Does anyone propose the abolition of the institution or its materialisation? I hope we're all talking about its substance. So all together - and with changes - we really need to help in this direction. One more report: I did not expect to hear the head of a party, head, punish a man who is not here to answer him and who has become a candy. In the question, is it not only the Simitis or Chohatzopoulos, the ‘not the Simitis or the Chohatzopoulos’, do we not have it in our minds? That is the main issue. You know, there's one of these people in here and out.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u299	But Chocolate answered for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u300	Is that what you understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u301	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u302	Questions will be answered after the end of my speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u303	Mr. Amyras, please. Mr. Vitsats referred to what he referred to.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u304	I would like to say this: I have nothing to remove, I think I have much to add to what Mr Theodorakis said just before, in relation to the course of the armaments programmes, their logic and their way. I'm going to say a few things from his speech. But I want to add a clue. I do not add it, but, strangely, Mr. Christodoulakis says so in the debate on the 2004 budget to the Committee on Economic Affairs of the Parliament. What's he telling us there? That at least 25 units of government debt, i.e. one quarter, are due to the'justifiable,' he says, 'but particularly increased defence expenditure in our country'. If we take this as an element and we put the misagent, the overvaluation, etc., we find a new element. That is what I would like to point out. I say this because I will tell you something first, which will probably seem strange to you and some people will look possible and unreasonable, but, in my opinion, it is not. Today's debate and the corresponding debates and decisions that are taken are, in my opinion, directly related to the issue of the country's development and productive reconstruction. It is not a matter of law or moral order, in other words, of corruption and interlocutoryity. It is not just a question of criminal and liability to which they belong, but it is a matter of deep political, it is linked to the way the state operates. That is to say, the fight against corruption and interlocutory is a political act and, in the end, it is a development act. We cannot continue - and it is between what our people decided on in 2015 - in the way that this system had been set up at all levels. That is why we need political will and this political will must be turned into a legal arsenal. It seems simple on a first visa, but in fact, when you're in the field, you see that there are other dimensions that you either hadn't seen before or had underestimated. The system of corruption and corruption itself has shaped, I could say that it has mutated, functions of the state, to serve strife and corruption, but also to offer them protection and immunity. In other words, the system had many systems, which says, if I remember correctly, Kronakis. I say this because, yes, a change in the Constitution is needed for the law on the responsibility of Ministers, but there are many other changes that need to be made so that this whole process is transparent, that it is crystallised and, in a sense, beneficial. It has therefore managed to infiltrate the state's hard core. We need to decipher its mechanisms and functions. We are on the right track, we need more work, we do not stay here, namely how we understand the phenomenon, we take the first step, we look at the legislative measures that are needed, we plan the corresponding structures, which will serve this public reorganisation operation, and we also pay particular attention to the people who will be running and serving this process. Where I was sitting I have a book - among many books, but this is an excellent book - which has the title "The looting of the defense or defense of a father". I don't agree with what the author says, but most of all I agree with. I would remind you that the Director-General of the Directorate-General for Education, Mr Papantoniou, was the former president of the vegetables market of Athens. I am not saying anything about man, but I tell you how the 'transfers' are made. So, in approaching this issue, I would like to point out the following: around what was involved in the equipment programmes, there have always been shadows, sometimes large and sometimes small. Perhaps here also plays a role in the specificity of national defence issues, as some people are using national security as a place to hide their injustices. But we need to get away from a huge mistake that we are making. The huge mistake is that when such issues are revealed, we may think that either defence or the Armed Forces are affected. On the contrary. From this clearance process and the defense and the Armed Forces can be won. May I remind you again what Mr. Panos Beglitis, Deputy Minister of National Defence and then Minister of National Defence, said in 2010? "Around defence equipment property was built, possibly political careers. Some became rich and are in and out of Pentagon. Whatever closet of the General Equipment Directorate, you will find skeletons." We are, however, in a situation which differs both qualitatively and quantitatively. We are talking for a specific eight-year period, in the eight-year period 1996-2004. What preceded this eight - year old? Let's be honest here. Everything begins from the Imias and from a phrase that the then Prime Minister of the country, Mr Simitis, said in this space. This phrase was three words, if I am not mistaken: "There was no force found." That's where the big party started. Since this eight-year period, then, we have had some data. What are the data? That Mr Tsohatzopoulos and the political leadership and various officers of that time are now making applications for release. The second part, however, which many of the speakers have said in 2003, is well known. That's not what I'm telling you. The fact that you say that 5.5 billion euros were ordered in 2003 does not prove anything on its own. What has happened in this process is important, and this is where we must politically make justice easier in its work. The fact that six procedural documents have arrived, containing signs of felony acts, is a sufficient matter and has something to do with the main. Let us not play legally, saying 'the main and subsidiary'. They would not have said that if they were in a court, either from one side or from the other. It is precisely the question on which we can establish the Special Parliamentary Committee and within these documents there are all the indications. In the proposal, only references to the procedural procedures as the legal basis of the proposal are sufficient for the proposal. Do you want each other to put all the special parliamentary committee behind you? That's what I wanted to do. So I say this, and I say all about seeing the streets, because Mr Papantoniou, in his note he shared, focuses on the legal integrity of contracts and attempts to fortify behind them. Here our question is not legal excellence, which, at the bottom of the scripture, has been made by excellent lawyers, and our own and foreigners, but is what is behind it. What we have to make clear is to find the streets of possible "black" political money and hatred. We all know - if no one knows, I would really be surprised at our age, namely those who are eighteen years old and upward, that we should know - that I hated it with proof. Not given. So you should be involved in this process. So, here, it's'singing'. I'd like to add something else.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u305	Please, Minister, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u306	I will conclude in a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u307	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u308	In one of these cases - I think Mr Davakis is well aware of it, as does Mr Denkias - exactly the same amount of the weapon system, one year ago, Finland had bought exactly 50% of the cost. Just a year ago. How much, then, did this - let me speak - a verb? So, where questions are being asked, some necessary conclusions have to be drawn. Excuse me, clearly - and there is no personal tone, Mr Theodorakis - we need to change some things. Firstly, with regard to the functioning of the Parliament's Committee on Equipment, it is very important that it should also change and get a level of confidentiality, but also a level of knowledge. It's one of the main issues. Secondly, now that we have the National Defence Industrial Strategy - and it is good that we all hear that we need to help our defence industry - we need to set up the National Defence Industry and Technology Council, with university teachers, with staff, to see how all the political forces can participate. In other words, we need to resolve these issues. Our aim is to have a 15-year programme and a three-year very specific programme. It is provided for in the law. Our aim is to change the procurement law, not in the sense of overturning it, but in the sense of improving it. So, with that logic, we have to go. At the same time, we must insist on contracts - where we are aiming for equipment - rather than buying equipment for the misagent - you said so, and others say so - in transnational cooperation, namely 'G2G', which has shown that you can control them better, so that you can get into this process more easily. Our aim should be this: we should see our market cycle not at the flight price, but at the life cycle. I'll say again that a fighter plane can make alpha money when you buy it from the box, but in his life cycle, his cost is four times an alpha. In other words, it's multiple. If you don't have all this, you can't do anything. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the transparency that has to be found in all these procedures requires these changes, and the special parliamentary committee does not only have the character and role of the Rules of Procedure, namely the specificity of the responsibilities, but can also work at another level to clarify the way in which Greek democracy operates, through a process of institutional immunity, because our request is not only to heal, but also to prevent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u309	Thank you and please for keeping time. Mr Vassilis Leventis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u310	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, my good evening to everyone and everyone. Since there is a question of a political person, as to whether a special parliamentary committee is to be set up, I would like to say something that I have been saying a long time ago about those who have been following me. In supplies of more than EUR 1 million, there had to be the presence of a public prosecutor by drawing from the prosecutors’ body, overseeing the whole procedure. Now we would have neither Chohatzopoulou nor Papantoniou nor anything, whether we had implemented this in public works. Because now we see the armaments money. Do the public works go unnoticed or indisputed, do the House look for one sector and leave another unexplained, as serious as this? Therefore, if we want to be honest, my proposal, which has existed since 1990, should have been implemented, that, in serious cases with a high level of commission, there should be a public prosecutor on the whole procedure as president of the committee and that it should not be for every minister to order submarines, to assign works and others. Because what seriousness can the Minister have? Could a Minister be serious, but do we trust his honesty? It's a lot of money. Especially after Olympiad, the sums began to be large. Did Olympiad look for her? The Olympiad was investigated and is it all perfect? The people, in other words, sitting in the cafeterias and watching this debate, what will they say from within? That if Papantoniou enters prison, is the political system removed and is it perfect and saint surrendered now to history? I believe that, and now, when there is a big order, there should be a large commission from the public prosecutors' body in the presence of a public prosecutor as chairman of the committee. It is necessary, if we want, because we are a country where we easily accuse the other thief, even if it is not, or easily close our eyes, if it is, and we forgive him. I told you incidents: Olympiad, public works. This is all what happened? This proposal, like the proposal I made to Mr Tsipras last week that we had at the Prime Minister's time, which I told him about setting up an independent authority for polling, is very essential. There is a survey, made, delivered the findings, whether they are in the papers or with phone numbers, to which numbers they phoned, the answers and all to the independent authority, to immediately check the data - within 24 hours, the independent authority can process them - and then see them at "Kathemerini", see them at "THETHNIS", "SKAI", "SKAI", "AND1", but not, bam on "SKAI" "three percent of something New Democracy". Understand? These are not valid things, they're not serious things. That is what the Prime Minister said that he accepted. But let us see it, because from accepting it until it is applied it has a small, very big, of course. She may be very small, but she's too old after all. We called as a party the Centro Association in the establishment of the special parliamentary committee, but with a heavy heart, because we wanted the clearance to extend to all areas, and that was what was required if Parliament wanted to have a clear face to the citizens and look at them in the eyes. I shall refer to the question of the negotiation that is taking place, because there is a gloomy picture here. The New Democracy's people say 'be quick, the time is money'. No one doubts that if the negotiation had ended two, three months earlier, it would have been even better. On the other hand, Tsipras and SYRIZA say "what do you want, accept it all?". And time goes on. Where's this job going? There is also a dignosis within the walls of SYRIZA. In other words, there is a minister who does not want IPTO to be given, not to be privatised. What's gonna happen? This is where the lignite mines are sold, it's all sold. There's nothing left. You are a party that has been completely opposed to privatisation, and now you are presenting itself as a party that will sign it all. What are we going to tell the citizens? The New Democracy, however, says: 'Do it quickly, I will not vote for it, but I will apply it when I come'. Is that a picture of a serious party? So could it be in Belgium, in another state, like Germany, that a party tells the government 'take it quickly, vote it, we will not vote it, you will be the traitors, but will we keep them'? That is, betrayal we accept, traitors not to name us. That is the whole issue, the whole problem of the New Democracy, and it does not contribute to making this negotiation more serious. Because if I had been heard by this Chamber for a year and a half I have been in the Chamber, I had proposed a large government of forty seats. [[Noise in the Chamber]] How? Government that has... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Okay. And the seat is for every MEP one.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u311	Support, yes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u312	Support. All right, ladies and gentlemen. I thought I made myself clear. Maybe I didn't make it right. Why are you saying I had made this proposal? In order not to do this: 'You vote, take the betrayal, I do not vote'. These things aren't serious. But was Mr. Tsipras in favour of privatising the energy? Question: Was she in favor? I think there are tapes that you seem to be fucking this in the past. What's changed? Has the cosmogenic changed something? All that has changed is that the foreigners have now realised that in the past seven years we have not made any reform, but we have taken measures. I have said to this Chamber - last time - the difference between measures and reforms. Reformation is a permanent thing. In work, say, cutting off collective agreements is a reform, because it is something permanent, which is supposed to facilitate the arrival of investments. And reducing pensions is a measure that you have some kind of temporary income. You have a temporary income, taking it out this year or another year. That's the difference. The measure is a temporary measure, which day after day touches one or two or at most three budgets, while reform is something permanent, which you do so that the production machine can operate with greater flexibility and efficiency. We've been taking action here for seven years all the time. We made no reform, no opening up of professions or a tax system or a merger of many pensions into one. Municipalities, IKOs and public authorities know that they have a large proportion of wages and that is why ADEDY brought forward a strike four days ago. That's the first time I heard in advance a strike call. "If you go to carry out an evaluation, we will be on a permanent strike," ADEDY says, apparently knows that if an evaluation is made, a large percentage of employees will be in trouble, because they do not meet standing needs, many do not come and pay at home. It's still happening today, no matter how much you say it's been seven years. Therefore, the issue of negotiation is a serious issue, which is why I told Mr Tsipras last time not to insist on working relations, because foreigners know that this is a time when privatization is needed and because they know that investment needs to come, they want a work flexibility. They will not let laws hard, proposed by trade unionists, hamper privatisation and investment, because saying that we will bring investments and have laws proposed by the various major trade unionists, these two are incompatible levels, which undermine each other. That's clear. The government must therefore decide whether it can raise the burden of negotiation, which may also involve further contraction of the SYRIZA, because in life today, in order to raise the burden of a reform, you may have to break down. But you're doing it for the country, you're doing it for something. Mr. Tsipras must find the courage to tell the truth. Mr. Tsipras is not telling the truth, but he wants the dog to be full and the pie oak, that is to say he wants to continue to have the reflexes of a left party and be the government to bring investments. These aren't easy things. Time's too short. In fact, the New Democracy is right and you agree. Mr. Tsakalotos said that, if the evaluation fails to close in December, we are going to lose. Representatives of the SYRIZA have smashed the alarm. It wasn't just New Democracy. We have all mentioned the question of quickly becoming, but 'fast' does not mean subjection to everything. Let's explain. The "fast" means determination, to make Mr. Tsipras decisions about where to retreat and know where to go. If Mr Tsipras can not now go to the President of the Republic to ask for a government of technocrats. It is not good to further damage the country. I appeal to this House. You know who I am, you know where I come from, from the center space. The only thing I don't want from this Chamber and the trouble is that the country's collapse should come. I appeal to the Prime Minister. If he can raise the burden of negotiating and, of course, the social consequences, move on and sit. But if he cannot, let him not eat any more time from the country. The country must bring investment quickly, make any privatisations left and, because the people are no longer able to bear, unemployment must be the first to deal with. It is not a solution for us to have gone six hundred thousand young people abroad. It is not a solution, because so far the fight against unemployment has been done by escaping our young people, and that is not to our credit, nor is it a reduction in unemployment to work with four-month and six-month contracts. This is not even a reduction in unemployment. These are squeezings, perfection and dash. So the Prime Minister can find the courage to speak with himself. That's what I'd do in his place. Of course, you're in the party and the rest of you need to vote, but right now he's haggling his head, he's playing it, he's out and he said he'd tear up memoirs and other things. This one night in July of 15 found the courage and signed a left party that placed right-wing signatures, because that's what happened. Capitalist signatures were put on one night of July '15. Now it is the second dose of the great heroism that this Chamber must show. The delays are fatal. I also turn to New Democracy, which says that it is a serious party that wants the euro, and has a new leader whose good intentions I do not doubt. Is it a party image to say 'do it', Tripra, do we not sign anything, but will we keep it'? The Portuguese, who have all gone together and signed the Memorandum, and the five parties, do not teach this Chamber any lessons? Today it's off the memorial. Just two years keep the memorial. Why? Because they had the courage to collide. If this country is now not overrun by itself, when will it? Tell me when. I want to say a few words about the revision of the constitution. Yesterday I heard a number of things say on a show at ERT1. What I have heard is that citizens will ask questions through Taxisnet, a committee will process them, and so we will go to proposals from the people. You know, the people want it all theirs. The people are wise, but sometimes they are dangerous. In other words, if there is a referendum on whether the people want tax, it can make up 80% that they don't want tax at all. What are we gonna do? This Chamber has people who are historically recorded as "personal responsibilities". I have heard some crazy proposals: to be able to call on the President of the Republic, to be able to call on Members. Listen to suggestions now that will be made! The President of the Republic says to appoint the head of the Supreme Courts. But the President of the Republic - good time - today may be very worthy, but he is irresponsible, he has no responsibility, and if he makes mistakes. To an irresponsible person, will we allow him to make such important choices? How do we know who will be President of the Republic tomorrow? Grandpa Mitsotakis said that the President of the Republic should be elected directly by the people. The election of the President of the Republic by the people gives an increased prestige. Do you know what he's driving at? In a two-pole system. In '65 you know how the king lost his throne? From the coexistence of Prime Minister and crown. In other words, when we have two poles of power, it's very easy to divert. You haven't thought of it all in this Chamber. I think we should slowly think about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u313	Mr President, if you wish, you will be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u314	Then, they tell the governments of the committee to be a Prime Minister of Parliament. If a time is needed for a serious person, a Greek, to lead the Council of Ministers, will we say 'no'? In 2011, PASOK proposed the Petsalnic. Could Petsalnicus stand against any economist at that time? How do we limit it to being a Member of Parliament and to what ensures us? That he'll be wise? Then, they suggest that the congressman's term be eight years. I have repeatedly called for the term of office to be deaf in this Chamber, but the twelve. The 'eight years' is very small, because most of them are retired with eight. You are over eight years in Athensis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u315	The pension does not apply.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u316	It's not the pension, but the over eight years go automatically home. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u317	Mr President, we will discuss these matters at another time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u318	With regard to the financing of the parties, at present there are 3 categories of books that the parties have and are controlled by the committees. Now, he says, they'll testify to the parties some costs for them to be approved. Is that a window to increase the state grant? Meanwhile, some parties with loans, such as PASOK and the New Democracy, from EUR 200 million each, will pay them? By this way, these parties will never pay their loans, because they now give part of the state grant. So, the control system by book accountants in Class III is inadequate and is it better for the parties to make first-time payments and then submit to committees? You know what's gonna happen to that? Ladies and gentlemen, on the issue of the Constitution a lot can be proposed. There's no doubt about it. But the Constitution is always wise, as a constitutionalist said. The Constitution is wise. It is only very essential to amend it. You don't start playing with the Constitution. Some have come to say that we should completely abolish it and start from the beginning. This Migration has had a lot of mistakes. There is no doubt that he has had too many mistakes. But it's not a solution to tear everything down. There are also things that kept Greece standing. There are some things. It is not right, therefore, to have such discussions as, for example, the immunity of a Member of Parliament. Outside society says 'no, there must be no'. And if they start suing anyone for political retaliation, we'll leave him? So there must be immunity. Only on matters relating to misuse of public money or crimes against life, crimes, there is no immunity. But I think this is how the House acts. When he sees abuse, he sends it. When he sees lawsuits, it would be stupid to send it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u319	Mr President, please, let's close.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u320	Yes, sir. There are things to be treated in the Constitution, but not what is described. Another issue that this House must heal is rousphetti. We have not established employment offices with which appointments can be made. Because assignments all over the world are held at the job offices. I do not know that you are going to the MP or to the party, as is happening in Greece. Only in Greece, the Parliamentary Offices are Royftiou reception offices. There must be criminal prosecution against MPs if they intervene for a friend's preference for recruitment to a post. It's clear. Even if you want to ask or interfere with a minister to prefer a friend of yours, you have to be prosecuted. We need to get to an extreme point in the fight against rupture. Because if this country is bankrupt, it has been bankrupt because of the rupture, ladies and gentlemen, if this Chamber, of course, is intended to combat the rupture and there are no debates here just to discuss. I want to say one more thing before I leave. I want you to know what keeps me standing. In all the months that I've been in, you spend what you want with a hundred and fifty three MPs, no matter what I've proposed. Now I see that, under the pressure of reality, the majority is saying to reduce the Members' wages a little, to equilibrium tax.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u321	Come on, Mr. Leventis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u322	But two things keep me standing and I want all of Greece to hear from the channel of the Parliament and you MPs: the young people, who are leaving outside, who feel that they need me as Vassili Leventis, and the elderly, who have been wronged to such an extent and have cut them off the pension and where, where they approach me, they say "send back". I feel very difficult when I come home, knowing about these two, that the young man, to get a job, has to leave abroad and that the elderly will be fast at home. Because PPC has done - I don't know if you know - another crime. PPC has done this: While sending bills of 100-140 euros, it now sends pentacos to everyone. I don't know what's happened to PPC. While the charge is EUR 90, it goes EUR 380 plus another EUR 500. One who takes 800 and 900 euros, you know, Mr Panjah, what does it mean to give 500 euros of PPC? What's left to eat? That's what's supposed to be in the Chamber. But the main thing is that we will say yes to Papantoniou. The public works, the Olympiad, all those who ate? Unpunished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u323	Mr. Panzas is not the fault of anything, Mr. President. Mr. Panzas, what's the matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u324	He was watching me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u325	You were seen by all others, others in worship, others in despair.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u326	He's my best listener, and he's my friend, and I admire him as an actor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u327	The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Spyridon Lappas, has the floor. Mr. Lappa, please, hold the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u328	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, in April 2015, three months after SYRIZA took over, there was a debate on corruption here. I have before me the Minutes of the then Minister for Corruption, Mr. Nicoludi. Of course, we have heard things that we are now working on. He told us about health-sharing, equipment-sharing, stock-sharing, stock-sharing and other equivalents that are domestic companies. He told us percentages from 2%, 3%, 4% to 24% in the health field and we went crazy and we didn't believe them. It is now time, not only to believe them, but to discuss them, to explore them and to lead them where they should be. Then, in fact, there was a broad debate, to give a definition of what is corruption. There was, of course, a UN definition of this well-known corruption manual. There was a definition - the most excellent one, I would say - of the Council of Europe. There is a definition from the World Bank, from the OECD and from the European Commission. I mentioned, instead of defining an incident that I had heard at a conference of lawyers on corruption. It was this, if I remember it well: One day, a trader, who had great problems and almost deadlocks, visited Talleyrando, French Foreign Minister, who was brilliant and corrupt completely and said to him: "Your Excellency, I want you to do this to me, which is not lawful. I will give you a thousand euros and I will not tell anyone." His excellency looks at him, he thinks of it, and he says, "Do the francs ten thousand and tell anyone you want." That is the concept of the corruption of the Mandarins, i.e. state officials. When the Roman Empire collapsed - and I say this for my friend Costas Dousina, an empire collapsed morally first and then politically and economically - it dominated a post in the Roman Empire, which said: "Corruptio optimistima". The corruption of Mandarins, of the finest, is the worst. Because we are debating such a case of corruption today - because as corruption we take the debate that is taking place, as an example of it and its case, this is about Mr Papantoniou, of course - first of all, I would like to say something that has been heard by the rapporteurs and representatives of all the parties, that this is supposedly today's debate, beyond other things, an attempt, an attempt, an invention - I would say - of SYRIZA and ANEL, in order to - says - to disorientate workers and public opinion and the people from the real problems. I have heard this from you, Mr Papatheodorou, as I have heard from fellow lawyers, and I am very sorry. Do you know why? Because we are not discussing the creation of a committee of inquiry, which is probably a decision of a ruling party. We are talking about setting up a special parliamentary committee of inquiry, not on the ground of speculation or political objectives, but on existing documents. Six are the big procedurals inside. That is what we have to give our opinion. Is that our fantasy? Is this an invention? Is it imaginary that today we are coming to discuss these six pleadings? After all, the investigation into the shareholders is continuing. So what do you think? What should we disorientate? I would therefore reverse the argument, and I would say that your argument wants and attempts to disorientate public opinion from the issues of corruption, particularly when it comes to state officials, otherwise Mandarins. Do you know why? I ask you the following question: Does the House have an obligation to take a decision on the order for the six forms of order? If anyone dares from a party, from those who think we're disoriented, come and say so from the Step. To say that the House may not be indifferent to the D.A.'s order and not take any position on the six motions. That's the first. So the insinuation or direct charges - depending on which party they are being made - at the expense of the SYRIZA, that we are supposedly part of the interlocutory and that we have reconciled with corruption, at best we take it as an alibi and at worst as a hybrid. But I have to tell you, to remind you of something from Heraklitos, that we must once erase more from the fire and the hurricane. Heraklitos. And now we are going to the issues that have been raised. I would say that the major issue raised was raised by Mr Voridis. I am referring to the fact that the introductory document of our proposal lacks the causal link, the causal link between the conduct - which is infringing - resulting from the case-file - and the damage, which is also mentioned. Mr Voridis, you will read out a lot - not to tell you the most - indictments, even judicial decisions, which do not deal with the causal link or causal link. However, that does not render the judgments unaffected because it is the case-file of the case-file and the history of the judgment. Is this where we're wrong? It comes in relentlessly. Do we have any damage? It refers to our document. You may be right in general. But, imagine this, when the case-file for Chohatzopoulou became the Parliament's decision here, Mr Voridis, had ruled that Tsohatopoulos was responsible for 21 million in total and only for the offence of corruption. The Years Council, following the interrogation carried out, concluded that the damage was 84 million. So the special parliamentary committee can also complement and add to new facts and even to the relevance that you want and you deserve. One is that. Mr President, one was asking what the special parliamentary committee would do. I will tell you, Mr Voridis, why you have raised the question. In addition to the investigation, first of all, there is a wealth of evidence in the six procedural documents that we say in our text that they are relevant. The suspect person for us is one, the former Minister of National Defence, Mr. Papantoniou. They are therefore relevant within the meaning of Article 129 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. It is a case-file, therefore, that the case-file with all these aspects is distributed at six o'clock. What's he gonna do? Firstly, it will assess the existing material that is rich. Prosecutor Voridis, when he's doing the investigation for the participants, he's done it, he's done it, and he's still gonna do it. So when he arrived and sees that there are signs of guilt, possible responsibilities of a political person, he sends it here. That's what we're doing here. I'll tell you what he'll do. It is three things - I will tell you - that is why I consider the work of this committee to be very short. There's rich material. I looked at the records, saw them all six. There's too much good and rich material. Firstly, it will assess what we have said. Secondly, it will carry out the investigation not only by the prosecutors for Mr Papantoniou. What can he say about Mr. Papantoniou? What doesn't exist in the litigation, Mr. Voridis? Three things don't exist. First, a copy of the Lagard list where the 1.5 million-dollar deposit was found. Secondly, the three judgments in the case of the non-declaration or declaration of inaccurateness 'from the outset'. One is an irrevocable case, four years in prison. The other is final, also four years in prison. And the other is a final decision. It has three convictions, therefore, Mr Papantoniou: irrevocably, final and final, all with four years imprisonment. Thirdly, there is also, ladies and gentlemen, the opening up of the accounts, which, for us today, is a very strong, powerful instrument, which the committee of inquiry must of course make use of. The latter, how much evidence is provided by the suspect, Mr. Papantoniou. Let's get us everything he wants. We will assess everything and send it to the prosecutor's office for the further. That's the play. Simple as that. Now, Mr President, I could say a few things about corruption. Mr. Loverdo, I'll tell you. Mr Venizelos prescribes the work of Charalambos Dimopoulou, which is signed 'corruption'. So it has a prologue with which I could certainly agree on everything. What is corruption, whether it is endemic or short-term, whether it is Greek or European, whether it is European or international. I would agree with that foreword from Mr. Venizelos. But here, what's the problem now? While we all say that there is corruption at many levels of political, economic and administrative life, etc., what do we not realize? We have so far said that only in recent years has the concept of corruption been material to legislate against it. Do you know why? Because in the atomic philosophy of Criminal Law - and I speak to your colleagues, lawyers - the tradition of Criminal Law punishes certain acts, does not punish phenomena. And so we said: The bribe or the bribe are responsible, no matter whether he is corrupt or the bribe or the bribe. But this has now become necessary not only Greek but also international, the phenomenon of corruption now being dealt with by the amendment of a criminal law. So the national and supranational legislator, indeed, found ways and made super-legislative texts, and here in Greece nr.2803/2000 and nr.3691/2008 on laundry. So we have also dealt with phenomena at least at the jurisprudence level. Ladies and gentlemen, from journalistic studies, and not just if corruption in the field of armaments and health were calculated, one might say that the party that was going on in equipment and in the health field would be enough to justify the fact that the country had a course now not been reversible. It wasn't reversible in health. Huge sums! And imagine, because we are now talking about Mr Papantoniou's responsibilities, that we had Mr Tsohatzopoulos, Minister for Defence, from 1996 to 2001. Miscellaneous, mixed-up, mixed-up. We're talking, we're out of arms mists. Now we have between 2001 and 2006 with a suspect in Mr. Papantoniou. So it's a period of about a decade during which arms hatreds gave and got.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u329	Until 2006?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u330	From 2001 to 2006, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u331	You're making a mistake this year.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u332	And here I'm going to do the devil's attorney a little bit... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. When Mr Papantoniou appeared in the secondary court, at the five-member court of appeal, as witness with Mr Venizelos and Mr Simitis, the following question was asked by the President: 'Mr Papantoniou, did you as Minister of National Defence, who succeeded Mr Tsohatzopoulos, have you seen in your term of office some underground routes, and so on?' Mr Papantoniou's reply: 'If I could see that, Mr President, the first thing I would do would be to bring it to you'. Eventually he comes to them himself, without bringing it to himself, he is necessarily coming himself. It would be negligent if I did not stress - and I will end with that, Mr President - that between 2001 and 2005 Greece was the first in the world to buy weapons systems from the United States. And the time of crisis 2008-2011 - I think - was fifth in the world of the market for such weapon systems again. The total cost of the century was 53 billion, Mr President, and with the maturity of some 57 billion. All the amount of market for the century - and note, please - has been secured exclusively by external borrowing that we are still paying today. Just write it down. In fact, some say that most of the weapon systems, purchased on the market of the century, were almost unnecessarily, because they did not respond and did not "comply" with the structure and philosophy of the country's defensive doctrine. So you understand that crime is square and double.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u333	It's quadruple.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u334	And one last, Mr President, and I'm done. The case-law - and it concerns you, Mr Tindemans - has now made a decision after 2009 that the legalisation of dirty money, so to speak, has now been dissociated from any downheid of basic crime. It is simply by the way of exploiting the basic crime to prove its judicial conviction, regardless of whether there is a judgment or not, whether it is written or not, whether criminally prosecuted or not. Do we agree on that? We agree. So we are releasing the offence of legitimisation from basic crime, whether there is a charge or whether it has been banned, since it does not belong to ministerial duties and to ministerial powers - so said the case law has been firmly and firmly, I have a series of decisions that I will give to committee - in this sense it escapes, it says, the case law of Parliament's control, Mr Voridis, and it is solely the responsibility - you will see this in the committee - of the joint prosecutors and judicial authorities. So the limitation has been 15 years since it starts. We'll see when it starts. Mr Paradoxopoulos thought very well when the limitations began to come to legalisation. If we have legalisation both in 2010 and in 2009 and in 2008, as they say condemnation decisions on 'outside', we will see when the limitation begins, so for a 15-year time period. I would like to say something else. Do not forget that according to this case-law, Mr Loverdo - and I have finished - the Minister cannot go to trial in the same court and for offences which he has committed and which he has carried out with his powers and duties with others which are not concluded. Why? Because there is a real slash for each of them: bribery and legalization. Said the case law I accept a real draw. And for each of these offences, bribery, infidelity or legitimacy, it has the limitation laid down in the ordinary criminal law.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u335	Mr Colleague, this is the committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u336	I'm done, Mr. President. And because corruption is annoying society, George Sourlas, your own man, in a book published by the "Maragopoulou" Foundation - after saying "net hands", that this is how politicians should be. - He said society was an uprising. This was the conclusion of the conference and reminded John Kennedy that: "Those who make a peaceful revolution impossible - and it must be such a revolution to deal with the cleansing - make a violent revolution inevitable". Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u337	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, thirty-four students and students and two educational attendants from the 1st Katerini General High School (first Chamber). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Nikolaos Michaloliakos, Secretary General of the People's Association - Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u338	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I refer to the subject of today's sitting, which is the setting-up of a special parliamentary committee, which will examine the case of the former Minister, Mr Papantoniou, I would like to denounce that in this country, democracy is not working, pluralism is not working and I should like to denounce specifically that last month at the meeting of the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group, which was obliged to put forward a special committee set up in ERT, that my speech was a declaration of hatred and was racist. We sent out the full text of the speech, which was three thousand six hundred words, and there was nowhere to be a violation of the so-called anti-racist law, which the courts are already dismantling, considering that it is unconstitutional, as in the case of two of them, and in the case of the innocent exculpatory dictator for five Members of the Golden Dawn and for what they had said in a public speech. On Saturday, March 25, 2017, state television workshop was in Thessaloniki where I also had a speech, which was also required by the state television to cover it again, the committee decided that it would be possible for it to be transmitted suddenly to the TV screens and suddenly a message appeared at about two o'clock at night - at that time it was intended to transmit it - that POPERT was making a strike. And I ask: who is finally ruling this place, or are you transferring your political responsibilities to any COPERT? And is it possible for a trade union on state television, which all Greek taxpayers and voters of the Golden Dawn, to throw black into ERT? You had made a whole subject as a party, up to the railings you had ridden for the famous black at ERT. Now you know very well what this black is and you exercise it against the Golden Dawn. But, whatever you do, no matter what you do, the Golden Dawn is today, as the last elections show, the third political force of the country and will remain. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] The transcripts will not save the political establishment from the Golden Dawn that will become more and more powerful. Apart from the question of another large national issue, which has gone through the top, it has not even been discussed in the House. On 20-22 March a NATO exercise and the Turks, the sultan Erdogan, who is threatening Europe as a whole and says that European citizens in their countries cannot safely be released, demanded that Lemnos not be included in the exercise. And NATO accepted it. The European Union has intervened, which, as a new Pontius Pilate, said that it cannot take a stand on the differences between Greece and Turkey. We have once again experienced one betrayal of our allies. We fought and spilled our blood, the Greek nation, both in World War I. Turkey in World War I was on the side of the Germans, and in World War II it was severely neutral. And what do we get today? We welcome the fact that these mechanisms, both NATO and the European Union, are working against Greek interests. It is not enough for the diplomatic démarche to be taken by the government, and it is right that it has done so. That's not good enough. We have to get them to their responsibilities. Islam threatens Europe as a whole, threatens Greece. They are now counting hundreds, if not thousands dead in all European countries, and our country must defend itself. Often densely, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in this House you move our fingers and tell us that we are indicted. A day ago, however, some procedural documents came to the House, including the file relating to the former Prime Minister of the New Democracy of Antonis Samaras - who is also subject to trial - for his phone call inviting a judicial officer to put Members of the Golden Dawn in prison. That's how we got to jail and you know it very well. Convicts, however, will never be against the Greek people, against the Greek nation, that we have sold out the country. On the contrary, we are talking today about a person who is involved in a particular political party, but also about you, the Government of SYRIZA. Why not forget that it is the voters of Mr Papantoniou and his companions who have brought you to power. Let us not forget that even at the government headquarters people are sitting with Mr Papantoniou when these things were done. We consider the whole process to be another disorientation operation. And it is no coincidence that the special parliamentary committee for Papantoniou came to this occasion when the Greek people are threatened with the new extermination measures of the SYRIZA memorandum, which both the New Democracy and the PASOK and the Potami vote on 14 August 2015. Recently, it is also the case with the debts of the channels and the debts of the parties, which you have literally shattered a wet bag. You didn't do anything. And your conclusion was that there are no criminal responsibilities in any political person for all these sea-lovings, for the signs and monsters that have been heard in Parliament, for debts of 200 million in the parties, hundreds of millions in the media. So nothing will come out of this special parliamentary committee either. You wrote, SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks, a proposal to the Greek Parliament, which is also the subject of today's meeting. In this proposal addressed to the Greek Parliament, it says that it is "the recommendation of a special parliamentary committee to carry out a preliminary examination, under Article 86(3) of the Constitution, of criminal liability of Ministers". In introduction to your proposal, I was very impressed by the following: 'The country's armaments programmes', and your parliamentary representative said before, 'were always a source of risks for corruption of structures and persons'. No, gentlemen, it's not like that. They have not always been the source of corruption equipment. They became a source of corruption when the mediators' regime was introduced. When the Hellenic Armed Forces ordered their weapons systems directly, we had neither corruption nor mediators. Below in this introductory report you say: "The following armaments programmes go back to a more comprehensive period in which the acts and omissions of the old political system were culminated, which led the country to bankruptcy". Do you still insist that these were the old political system and you the new one? We haven't seen anything like this. ‘Standard, armament, structured bonds, Olympic projects overdrafts, media and parties lending composed the image of interrelated and corruption’. You tell us in a few words, quite simply, that all of this - armaments, waste 2004, etc. - led the country to bankruptcy. I will read you on the definition of what is a burdensome debt. So under International Law, the burdensome debt, also known as illegal debt, is a legal theory that national debt, created by a regime for reasons that do not serve national interests, should not be enforceable. So such debts are regarded by this theory as personal debts of the regime that created them and not state debts. And at this point I would like to ask you - why is the country's great problem with foreign debt - why didn't you report the external debt as promised and fooled the Greek people both in January 2015 and September 2015? You yourself in the report, which you are referring to, are clearly and clearly saying that this debt is illegal. You are not going to do this, because you are nothing but a continuation of the old political establishment. The position of the Golden Dawn is clear. We believe in the debt complaint and the international debt audit. How much more so, given that the fraudulentity of the Greek suppliers, such as Germany and armaments, has done criminal cases and trials on armaments. You say in your report that the responsibilities are political and criminal. Political responsibilities are attributed by the people. Criminal responsibilities are attributed by justice. The existing institutional framework, however, has been found to shield the political persons who have put the finger on honey, with the Constitution itself, with the Law on the Responsibility of Ministers. Some of you are in the talk to say all of this, that they put the finger on honey. And you continue to say that the government has committed itself to radically changing the law on the liability of Ministers with the forthcoming constitutional review. It's not like that. You're not saying that. In the brochure you made for the Constitutional Review, you say: 'with marginal exceptions for protection against political persecution, Article 86'. You therefore provide for the case, because in all cases where you are giving immunity to either the Members or the ministers, you are invoking political reasons. So in the future one will invoke political reasons. And so for political reasons, we have been living in the last forty-three years MPs with uncovered cheques, traffic accidents, with various kinds of offences being exonerated and never going to court. Not only do you leave an open window to continue to apply the law on the responsibility of Ministers, but it is wide, huge doors. Then refer to the case of former Minister of Defence, Ioannis Papantoniou. State the case of Leopard-type equipment with six Apache-type aggressive helicopters, six type S wells, electronic war systems and 20 NH90 transport helicopters. And you say that under normal conditions, that is, if the limitation under Article 86 of the Constitution had not been inserted, the acts and omissions attributed to that person could have been examined by the natural judge, but they cannot. And you say: "With the exception of accompanying acts for which there are strong indications" and you refer to the famous laundering of dirty money. More incomprehensible than that I've never heard. A law that cannot stand up to that very logic cannot be a law. It is being exonerated and you say that the stealing of the Treasury has been banned, but it is not exempted from what has done the stolen funds. Such kind of hatjavaism could exist only in the vicious political establishment of the Trans-Society. But your thinking overwhelms a Minister of this own government, the Deputy Minister of Justice, Mr. Papagelopoulos, who interviewed the newspaper "DIMMOCRATIA" last Sunday, in which he asked about the Papantoniou case and all the cases concerning the law on responsibility of Ministers, said - they are words of your Minister - "I must clarify that I am against the criminalisation of political life. This does not mean, however, that the Greek people should not be informed of the truth. As for the matter of limitations, it must be borne in mind that the law on the liability of ministers relates to acts of political persons - and this also applies to Members - who have done so in the performance of their duties rather than to any other act. I do not think that the legislator considers that corruption or any other criminal offences belong to the duty of the Minister. In other words, Mr Stathy," he says, in addressing the journalist, "if I give you a punch now, when I sit in my ministerial office, this act must be subject to the provisions of limitations on the responsibility of Ministers." Things are very simple here. If the opinion of the Minister of your Government is valid, there is no need for a committee of inquiry, nor is there any need for a committee of inquiry, nor is there any need for a criminal liability, nor for the waiver of immunity of Members of Parliament, but you must proceed directly to the delivery of the whole case to justice and to a criminal court. The responsibilities of the New Democracy are enormous. Characteristics of the New Democracy's responsibilities for scandal evolution are those stated in 2005 by the Chairman of the then Committee of Inquiry Mr. Tragakis at "ELLEROTYPIA": "We had fully documented the involvement of TORM1 and TPQ37 of Aki Tsochazopoulou in the media of DRUMILAN", but also of Yiannis Papantoniou at the procurement party in the Armed Forces, but unfortunately we stopped there, that is the truth." And now comes a German newspaper post and the revelations in the United States of America are coming to the surface to come other scandals, such as the big health scandal with the company NoVARTIS. It is tragic: from newspapers and foreign service investigations we are learning about the scandals of Greek ministers and politicians. The position of Golden Dawn on the subject of today's meeting is that the Papatonios referral is not enough, it is not enough and it is not the clearance that you promised the Greek people. There was a CSCE, along with Papantoniou, and others signed with the top Site. Why don't you extend the special parliamentary committee? The people are thirsty for justice. Everywhere you go, in every corner of Greece you will hear at cafés, in social places to denounce and dismantle politicians. The days of Lambrey come now and those who attempt political tours will enjoy the approval or disapproval of the people. The position of the Golden Dawn is that the issue of the scandals, two years that you are ruling, has gone no further and that the people are not satisfied with the committees of inquiry that end up in nothing. It is a pretext that the political system is deeply ill. Only solution for justice, a national solution, the Golden Dawn!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u339	Thank you. Parliamentary spokesman for the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u340	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, since the first day we were informed - Friday it was and had parliamentary scrutiny - that the majority tabled a proposal for the so-called 'pre-review committee', namely the special parliamentary committee, we said 'yes', 'yes' to the special parliamentary committee on armaments, as 'yes' to the examination or pre-examination of Varoufakis, as 'yes', to the examination or pre-examination of the Attica Bank, as 'yes', as we will see - for PPC, as 'yes', to any person who wants to be examined, for health or for any other matter. Because our principle is 'yes' to everything concerning transparency, 'yes' to 'yes' to throw light on dark spots and assumptions. But this attitude, ladies and gentlemen, does not correspond to the majority's behaviour, to a opaque behaviour, to which the opposition responds. The majority says 'no' as far as it is concerned or as far as it is concerned. He said "no" in the case of capital control and Varoufakis and denied the proposal of the Gennamata, the President of the PASOK, who was tabled to the House months ago, according to which we asked for the entire phase of the memoranda and all the memoranda and before the euro phase a committee of inquiry, which, if anything, would help the National Representation but also Greece, the Greeks and the Greeks, to understand exactly what the country's progress was towards the decline, towards the recession, to the actual bankruptcy. For the freshening of a recent memory, which is lost in this Chamber, I am tabling this proposal in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Andreas Loverdos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So we say 'yes' to everything that contributes to transparency, but 'yes' and to the light that has to fall into some of the tricks that are being done here. 'Yes' to transparency, 'yes' to light to everything, to everything and to the tricks. And we will do research, ladies and gentlemen. This is a promise we give to the National Representation, when the Special Parliamentary Committee starts, looking for it, accounts, black money, money laundering and everything that concerns our work. However, the aim, as has been said by many and by all the opposition parties, of this proposal that has been tabled is not to have transparency and to have light on everything. We appreciate - for now I am content with this - that no new element has arisen, because if it were, firstly, you would have included it in the text, secondly, the majority rapporteur, Mr Paradopoulos, and thirdly, because it is Greece, would have leaked. A party leader would say it in the House or a journalist would write it. It does not seem, therefore, that there is something to be said. That is why you have been exposed, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, to all those who signed, when you say that there is a contract on compensatory benefits, on armament, to describe the contract, and once you put it perfect, to start from below 'So as a title' without an element! Well, don't you have a lawyer in the government? You have a legal counsel, don't you? How did you sign these? We talked to you in the morning. And it is unacceptable how the Conference of Presidents received this attention. Not actually, the National Representation actually comes in, but how such a text comes here. You refer to the text and to the account, to a well-known account, for which there has been a trial for billions, an irrevocably irrevocable Ice Marble judgment, concerning the wife of Papantoniou and her children. And now be careful what you say, "But the files came to Parliament, what should we do?" What were you supposed to do? You have developed a theory - it is partly true - that since there is an offence of infidelity, the accompanying offence, the crime of rinsing, the use of money from illegal acts, we will look into it, after looking at the wrongdoing, but yet a crime for which the criminal offence has been committed, but which remains a crime. It was an unfair act, you say. And you are going, ladies and gentlemen, to a provision of the 2008 Act - others made him alike, not you - of Law No.3691, Article 45(3), and you support it where it says that the limitation does not prevent these procedures from being carried out. That's right. A little further, however, ladies and gentlemen of carelessness - and I said this morning, you must be a mechanic, but you must also be a master and a careful engineer - this paragraph says that it has the possibility, not us, that regular criminal justice can proceed to the monitoring offense, without having considered what has happened to the main offence, without the criminal prosecution having been made, without there being a judicial decision. That is what paragraph 2 says, ladies and gentlemen. So we have two versions. The first version is that the House, after having taken the files and had to do something to them, had to meet, in order to determine the amortisation of the possibility of setting up the so-called special parliamentary committee and thus to say to justice: on the eve of laundry, because we, as we alone, find ourselves in charge of this - let us say this - that is to say, in order to reach agreement. Or justice should not even send the file here and, based on Article 45(2), proceed, because it is laundering. And unleashing, Mr Lappa - because you referred to me and I thank you - may have legally emerged as an illegal procedure, as a criminal offence not related to the exercise of ministerial duties, but goes alongside and regardless of them, but I would remind you that in 2011 there was also a relevant legislative initiative for this, for the offences of ministers which are not ministerial. You forget that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u341	Not at all, we mentioned it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u342	And you will soon forget, because the Deputy Prime Minister at that time, Evangelos Venizelos, signs it, like the Minister of Interior, Haris Kastanides, and the Minister of Justice, Miltiades Papaioannou, ladies and gentlemen of the majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u343	We mentioned it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u344	As you forget, all the bodies you are talking about, prosecutors of corruption, financial prosecutors, are institutions established by the PASOK government before and by the Papademos government. There was a debate in the Chamber from a leader's place that there was evidence of accounts that occurred in March.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u345	For three.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u346	Yeah, that's what he said. It is not here to ask what exactly this is about, but it will be called on to the Special Parliamentary Committee - from us - to tell us whether it is about the development of the confidence in this account that you refer to in your text and its content which has been created before Mr Papantoniou became Minister for National Defence in 2000. That's to be clear, to see exactly what's happened. We will also consider within the special parliamentary committee, and that is precisely the argument, which Mr Papantoniou has put forward in the text that Mr Papantoniou has sent to Parliament. We are going to ask him exactly what he looks like to people who know law and who understand what a special parliamentary committee is. For, ladies and gentlemen, with 'wow' and 'woman', people are not being tried in our culture. With "hummies" and "wows" there are no human beings on trial. People are judged on their actions and on the investigations carried out by the institutions responsible for such actions. So, have you any evidence that has been heard here, and you do not bring it to the National Representation, and you are being exposed to the texts you are tabling to surprise? Welcome. In the sense of our 'all in light', it will be properly exploited. But have it. Because if you don't have one, we'll all understand that with your logic, where are you going? Lucky persecutors, you guys are. You go there, you look at the sand, you cry with the cress, and if you stay sand and rocks, and if there's no gold, what are you gonna do next? Lucky persecutors, goldheads? What's all this fuss about? Here the arguments, that is to say, that you would like to draw the attention of the people of Europe, as it is obvious - and I have said this since the first day - that you want to play in April 2012, where in many introductory forms - 'appropriate' time was convicted by Chohatzopoulou. It was not confiscated, Mr Lappa - I do not know who said it - because justice worked, but because the pre-examination committee of the House, with the President of your Parliament today, Marco Bollaris, examined this case by a majority and referred it to us. It seems, therefore, because it helped you in the results of the May and June 2012 elections, that the case of Chohatzopoulou again do something to keep it up, that there is no election - if you do - if you have something to do with it. And I am convinced that the attack you made on Simitis, which, although not so much Cyprus in the European Union, can have in his curriculum, the Citizens' Counselor and the "CAPESTRIA" and the country's accession to the euro. What do you have to say to the Greek people for two years? What do you have to say for two years? Mr Colleagues and Minister of Defence, we have handled defence issues, as you well know, for two and a half years. The logic of the persecutor, the golden diner, because many say that for your sake this special parliamentary committee is being made and we will see it...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u347	For my own sake?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u348	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u349	So this logic, Mr Colleague, says this. When after two years you lose the election - in 2019, don't you say? - in 2017, in 2018, whenever you lose them, you imagine to say about you, about the "shoes": "Mr. Kammenos, I'm not saying you've done something, but let's see." Keep two years looking at both years to get out clean. Nice, huh? Very nice.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u350	I wish they'd say.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u351	Please, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u352	So you fled to these...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u353	If they say about the 1.5 million he forgot, that's all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u354	If there is anything, we will see it and we are the first to make the relevant decisions. You will see how we operate in the special parliamentary committee. But if there is not all this fuss, it is because of the reasons why the whole opposition tells you here, two years at the wheel of the state you, the new, with the Bank of Attica, with the capital controls, with the recapitalisation, with PPC and everything else that comes up in these two years, to see how you will handle your future. The connections - and I close - are changing, ladies and gentlemen. They have not yet been expressed. They'll be expressed. It is a matter of time and election, of election from the side of popular sovereignty, of choice for the people, of expression of popular sovereignty. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And we understand that you have nothing to say about PPC, we understand that you have nothing to say about the third memorandum, we understand that you cannot say anything to your world about returning to the recession, we understand that you have done it with the insurance Katrugalo, we understand that you have nothing to talk about. One issue was, as nephews in power, with five to six, but, hypotheses already, corruption. And here? This is not where you come from. Because, Minister of Justice, I expected you to come before me so that I could have your views at the National Delegation too, beyond your statements.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u355	You'll listen to me in a little while.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u356	I'll listen, Mr. Comrade. You had the resignation of Raiku. I am not going to make the mistake, I am aware of the limits of the legislative function. I'm not even a sketcher. I don't even put my hands where I shouldn't put them in the responsibilities of others. It was very delicate to announce our own. We will not go in, we are not Justice Ministers. We are not institutional, we are the Greek Parliament. We won't say, if the D.A.'s right, or if another court officer's right, who's right. We are talking about two events arising from the letter.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u357	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u358	You'll give me a minute and I'll close, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u359	Just a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u360	The first fact is that a pro-government newspaper - not some opposition newspaper - attacked this judiciary, and the second issue is that her prosecutor's investigation was blocked. And of course, this blockade cannot be made by the Opposition. These two are the facts.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u361	Where did you see it was blocked? Who says that?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u362	In the text, I have it here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u363	Who says that? By who?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u364	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u365	I don't know either.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u366	Oh, you don't know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u367	Of course not.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u368	Gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u369	Then say 'Government and Opposition'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u370	Listen, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u371	Minister, you will close the debate. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u372	I live in the facts, I don't evaluate. Indeed, because you attacked and described the letter, the chief does not do that. The political leader first investigates the substance and then sees it. It is our position, ladies and gentlemen, that justice is neither to blame nor to praise it. Anyone who praises justice is a suspect, and anyone who objects to it also has a problem with it. But we don't get what the Minister of Justice did. Didn't your ministers do the same for the judges of the Council of State? Didn't you take care of a judge from the Council of State? You weren't denounced by the judges' associations?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u373	Mr. Loverdo, please, you're closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u374	Last sentence, Mr President. And now, ladies and gentlemen, in this particular case, there was a letter that the Minister of State described it as politically analyzed. He didn't perform his duties. We hope today that he will tell us something. To close as I started, I would like to say that we are voting 'yes'. We'll be present. We will look accurately at all legal matters, whether they are criminal or other. And at the end of this procedure - remember this - we all have to show face to face here. Let me see what kind of person you'll show. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u375	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-four students and students and three educational attendants from the Pella High School of Almopia. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The President of the Group of Independent Greeks, Mr Panagiotis Kammenos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u376	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Loverdos' speech, which preceded my own, is precisely the fifth difference between the current government and the previous governments. Because the current government has nothing to compromise for, to 'find' them. Open what you want. Open up the banks general - how you said it, the Central Bank - open them up armaments, open up what this government has done. We don't have anything that we have to find, as you guys did with others to make the government, which only took care of is to cover up on the one hand and on the other. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate is not a debate that is being held for me, as Mr Lovers says. Today's debate is because this government, at the request of the Prime Minister, has set up the Ministry of Home Affairs Committee of the Ministry of National Defence, with officers from the extremes of Greece, who have not so far participated in any committee, from an inter-institutional selection, randomly. The Committee on Home Affairs was set up and the first mandate it gave them was "take the keys to my office and check me first and check the Chiefs and check the Directorate-General for Equipment and open all cases and compile files and lead these cases to justice". The case we are debating today is precisely the product of this work. The Leopard 2 dossier was established in the NH90 folder, the six wells dossier was established, the dossier of submarines and compensatory benefits was produced. These files with my immediate transmission and Mr. Vitsa left and went to the Corruption Prosecutor, Mrs. Riku, which you, too, and with her colleagues, and the help of fifteen officials, economics and judges, who we gave to help form the files, have come to the results that we are now discussing in Parliament. It is a product of an entire investigation which has established dossiers on issues which we have been denounced for many years, and that is why today's debate in this House is historic. It is important for democracy and it is also a personal justice, if you want, because you have devoted it to me - twenty-seven, thirty-year-olds in here, because it is the real assessment of the causes of the crisis that we are experiencing and that we are trying as a government of national reconciliation to deal with. As soon as it dropped the curtain of the covert cause of the economic collapse, it turned out that we didn't eat together. We didn't eat them together, as Mr. Pangalos said and laughed. We didn't eat together, as Mr. Tsukatos claimed in the courts. The workers of 700 euros and pensioners of 500 euros did not eat them. Those small- and medium-sized professionals we are accusing ourselves of and allowing some of Europe to blame them. The wealth and leverage of the Greek people ate, in order to fill personal accounts in Switzerland, a specific criminal organisation, a criminal organisation of economic political interests, which subjugated the next generations with scandalous tens of billions of dollars, in exchanges of "blacks" massages that filled personal accounts. I have been talking about a criminal organization, because I have also lived in my life for three decades. I'm not one of those people who's talking about "shit" right now. I spoke about the 'grass' with questions that I put since 1996, in 1998, in 2000, in 2001, in 2007, even when we received the data then as the Karamanlis government and sent them to justice. Then we didn't talk after a holiday. Even those who became the Lernaia Hydra of the nation with infinite heads, who had politicians, had editors, had silver journalists, had state-owned interlocutors who took part in the nation’s robbery and acted as paid guns toward those who dared to speak. Fortunately the Minutes of the House are available to all colleagues, and today they have not only a history, but also an absolute practical one for the matter that concerns us. When I talked to NH90 in 2000 and said that this was a scandal, as was the case with the submarines, then the New Democracy, with Spilio Spiliotopoulos, was with him, a deputy of his - he filed two files, two huge documentaries concerning the scandal that was built, the A - Oh that would never be, about the hatreds that were leaving the windows at the time when the accounts were filled with all of them. He talked about the NH90s and said: “You give 70% advance on helicopters that are not even designed. In parallel to 70% of the deposit, you make a swap." What's the swap? It's interest - it says - that Greece will pay for what it prepays. You know what happened then? None of these contracts had been passed before the contract. Even today when the case has arrived in the House, which has been checked by prosecutors, do you know what the Court of Auditors' answer is when I say 'I will not receive it, I refuse to receive'? Meimarakis did it, too, when he was Minister. The answer is that, since there is no pre-contractual audit, the Court of Auditors cannot give its opinion on the extensions of the contract. The Legislative Council of State says there is a case of corruption here. It's bribery. In “REEMEMETALL”, in German justice, they paid for the bribes in Greece EUR 37 million compensation. I'm not picking up. I'm not leaving this company in. The answer of the Legal Council of State is: "Be sure, first, because if you do not receive, you will be responsible for the clauses that will fall". The mobsters built the system very well. And if we do not break these abscesses today and send them all together to justice to pay, then we will also have a responsibility. You will see, then, the parliamentary interventions in this national disgrace that took place at the time and the answers of the then Ministers of the government of Costas Simitis. All the contested Tsohazopoulou contracts in the past and Papantoniou, which we are investigating today and which have been documented, are mentioned in Parliament in 2001, 2002, 2003 and 2004 shortly before the elections. So I would remind you that at that time revealing the Leopard scandal we were talking about today, the ministers had been forced to resign - God to make them ministers! - the Shelter government. What did they say then? They said in the newspapers on headlines that a extreme right-wing Member - I am him - is targeting them. It is the same thing that Theodorakis and others from PASOK are saying today when the case comes here in the House and in justice. And they follow slandering articles, defamatory articles from publishing bands that today their bosses are being investigated for money laundering, for hundreds of millions of euros in sea. I find out just now that Mr. Psycharis spent thirty months in parole for violating the "before you" because they cannot justify the money they have. And we're still at the beginning. We're resorting to justice. We are entitled to justice. For twenty-one press releases, I appealed, and I won all the trials. What happened? They wrote an apology. And after they wrote it apology, as if nothing had happened, like real gangsters with pens and covers, they were coming back. They are the same ones who killed my father with papers, a businessman of eighty-six years who went to humiliate him in the west of his life. They are the ones who dared to say about my child, 16 years old, that she's a partner of Paula Rupe, so she can't ever get a visa to go abroad and always be targeted. The same guns work today. This cover has continued for twelve years, until finally the people have chosen this government of national reconciliation, whose main commitment is to smash this scourge of the nation and lead the perpetrators to justice. For the 12 years, ladies and gentlemen, the slander of the jury has no limit. Who will forget the exam of the Karamanlis government in 2005 for Mr Tsohatzopoulos? Then Mr. Venizelos, but you too, Mr. Loverdos, declared that the media accounts were telephone numbers. That's what the Tragic said. When we brought the transfers and took them into your hands, you told us that the numbers we showed and it turned out to be them, were phone numbers. Is it now phone numbers? Is it now the '188880' we're going to get? It's money bills. It's stolen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u377	Then what did SYRIZA say?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u378	Mr. Davakis, I'll tell you what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u379	No, then SYRIZA tell me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u380	Please, Mr. Davaki, do not interfere.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u381	The then SYRIZA in committee was referred back. And tell you something, 'cause I heard you this morning?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u382	What did SYRIZA's representative say then?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u383	You know, I have the bad habit of being sick as a parliamentarian. So, listen, what you said this morning and I read from the Minutes of Parliament: "For with regard to the reports that came out, which say that between 2001 and 2004 there was an orgy of mediation, the fragmentation of public money and opaque armaments, I would like to say that, apart from the critics in which we will be your allies to find them, it is these markets that hold the worthy of our Armed Forces even now in force." That's what you're saying! The NH90 never flew! One of the twelve helicopters is throwing one away. Is that the Armed Forces' power? Why are you covering them, Mr. Davaki? Why did you make the New Democracy a PASOK defender? Why "sartsart"? I'm filing it in the House, so that there are.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u384	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u385	The Minutes are yours. Take them and see them. Take them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u386	I'm sticking to what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u387	You made privileged interlocutors Mr. Venizelo.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u388	Mr President, just a minute. Mr. Davakis, your party's parliamentary representative is next, with a good time if he wants to say anything. Please don't interfere, don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u389	He referred to me, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u390	There were privileged interlocutors, Mr. Venizelos, the people of PASOK whom New Democracy was then accusing. Who will forget the fire statements of the leading New Democracy official before the 2012 elections revealed that the Venizelos-Safa agreement is double-injurious to those of Chochazopoulou, who are in prison today and have announced examination? May I remind you of the speeches of Mr. Tasouula and Mr. Meimarakis? I have the Minutes here. Do you want me to tell you what Vangelis Meimarakis, the former President of the New Democracy, told you about the LAOS and the parliamentary group? I read you from the Minutes: 'Dreams, loots and marginalities which have disproportionate interference with the public speech in relation to their power'. Asks for a committee of inquiry to be set up for the Members of LAOS who are your staff today. Vangelis Meimarakis said that. Do you want me to go a little further? In answer to LAS's suspicions that he ruined the receipt of the Leopard ammunition, what we are considering today, says Vangelis Meimarakis at the time: "We said to be assigned to NSA and Karatzaferis and his party to the Americans." Same case. Is Majmarakis the other guy now? He just insists on saying it, while you do a special law within a night to run off by Safa - which took five hundred million and "do it" - so that Venizelos never goes to the Committee of Inquiry. Can I remind you more, then? When you unfolded the scandal at night with Athanasios' amendments - when I separated my position with you - to release Emmanuel and when we denounced the amendment made by Athanasios for the release of Emmanuel, you sent the IMO to shut up in my father's shop to say that it is open to blackmail. And you know what happened in the end? The amendment by Athanasios and Emmanuel came out of prison, today comes the Marios Ice and judges her unconstitutional and void. But these were used to escape criminals. Mr. Venizelos is an expert on the subject. Who will forget that while the Shiiti government was destroying Greece, it ensured the impunity of its ministers with the shameful law on the responsibility of Ministers? Complete crime. But they didn't calculate anything. As in the case of Tsohatzopoulos, in the case of Papantoniou, black money in foreign accounts becomes constant. There is no question of limitation. Let me remind you, then, that when I stated this from here, from the seat of this House, some journalists of the power of Simitis, who are today in the parliamentary seats, have unleashed ironic and slandering attacks on me. But justice has ruled. This was strongly supported by politicians who are not controlled by the conflict and are aware of the Constitution better and clearer, such as the current President of the Republic, then Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy and the current Deputy Minister for Justice, Dimitris Papagelopoulos. They have documented that the financing of a minister, black money in a minister's or relative's account is not covered by any law on the liability of ministers. It shall not be subject to any limitation. And if the excuse is that the money is from the past, it's probably from the previous robbery, from the Stock Exchange. So look for this money from where they came from and what interest they produce every day.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u391	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u392	Yes, ma'am. You were the first ones to scream about the submarine case at the time. Now you've become a team. Don't hurt Venizelo, he'll hear it. So remember, Mr. Papantoniou. There are bills...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u393	That's your bad luck. Sell PPC now and leave the rest.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u394	Please, no dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u395	You're yelling, yelling.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u396	Mrs. Vulture, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u397	There are undeclared accounts now that justice has decided to own it. But remember the undivided support that was then offered to him by the means of interlocutory when his wife's account had been revealed on the Lagard list. At first Mr. Papantoniou spoke of a synonym and threatened with conduct. He was applauded by the silversmiths of the interlocutory. Then he admitted that the account was his, that is, his wife, but he did not know of his existence. He was still threatening to sue. In the end, she admits that the account does belong to his wife, but the money had been put in by her ex-husband, a viopalist with a shop in Liosia that came out on TV and said "I don't have a scarf to cry." Of course, none of these farts felt the need to apologize for deceiving the Greek people on behalf of Mr Papantoniou. Of course, Mr Papantoniou has used the pipeline industry to threaten those who were speaking. Who will forget Mr. Tsukatos' actions? Three lawsuits I ate from Mr. Tsukatos. Mr. Guscos was a lawyer. So Tsukatos came in when I revealed with my colleague Elijah by the name of his "black million" in the "SIEMENS" exam. Then they covered him with the sacred wrath of Tsukatos to my face and Mr. Javarra. No one, however, referred to the decision - a catapult to Greek justice, which not only vindicated me in the action it had taken me, but also irrevocably stated that the millions of Tsukatos ended up in the PASOK of Simitis, which constitutes a violation of the legislation on the operation of parties by means of the trial of this case. In PASOK no longer could exist. Yet, the PASOK in the mid-term was scandalously borrowed hundreds of millions of dollars against the Greek people, and fifteen in the locker were found, purchased the gym of Giorgakis and is now trying to change probes and VETs, knowing what is coming. What happened, ladies and gentlemen? "Sticks" are done. And they continue to maliciously provoke the Greek people, making hagiographies of the "chief of interlocutory", as Kostas Karamanlis said, not because they are misled, but because they shared the stolen ones together. Speaking of which I referred to Tsukatos, I will reveal an unknown story, to see how technocrats worked then and how they destroyed the economy and blackmailed entrepreneurs. So in 2000, Mr. Tsukatos, Kostas Simitis' right hand, visits a canalarch and says: "If you want to enter the stock exchange, there is a term". And by violating every law free economy and every regulation, it says to him "the following journalists will be fired": the unforgettable Malvina Karalis, the current member of the KKE Liana Kanellis - I got her permission to report to her today, because then she was released as a journalist - former Minister Panagiotopoulos and Markos Mousakis, who is in the Presidency of the Republic. The next election was announced by the end of cooperation. The pimp was such that it couldn't even keep any ruler almighty to keep a journalist. And the regime broke out homes while he was stealing and robbing the Greek people. We could play this game and bow down to the complex, save the rabies war, and be in the lounges of the newspapers and moan from morning to night, but betraying the next generations. Well, no! What I said in 2011 in the exam on Tsochazopoulos I will repeat today, because again these days of the Easter sacrifice, the sacrifice of God, which we must all join, beyond all ideology and all legitimate political thought and action, come. There are two roads which we all have to choose: the road of the crucifix or the road of the crucifixors. This government, with different political advances, chose the first path, chose the path of conflict with complexity and corruption. And you won't blackmail us! [[Applause from the ANE wing]] We don't have dirty in our closets, we don't have skeletons, and neither will we trade any control with cover of the past. So I invite you all together today - and I am referring in particular to the colleagues of the New Democracy, and I am really sorry, because all these struggles that were made at the time, Samaras threw them in the trash, who found them with Venizelos - and I say to you: Come along together, with the government, as Greek women and Greeks, and all the parties to do what the priest on the Great Friday with Epitaphis on returning to Syros. To make the "portal" out of stride and corruption, to move all together to clean the nation and not to cover up for a chair, Mrs. Vulture, Mr. Venizelos and proceed to contracts, agreements that are only aimed at sharing a piece of power with you. Because this power will never be given to you by the Greek people!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u398	Thank you very much. Let me tell you exactly the procedure, because now you're most of them. Mr Dendias will have the floor, then the Prime Minister will be closed and Minister Kontonis will be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u399	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u400	Please, there are no personalities, Mr. Loverdos. This debate either way or it refers from a party to a party for its past, its present, to its leaders. There was no excitement.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u401	Mr President, the floor for a minute, please. I'd informed the Bureau that if there was a report...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u402	No, there's no way. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u403	Mr President, you promised me. May I?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u404	Do not refer to procedural matters. Take the floor for a minute to what Mr Kammenos referred to, if you would like to clarify.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u405	Before that, I beg your pardon, but we said in the morning and along with the Bureau and with your colleagues in the Bureau, the officials of the House, that because it was certain that it would be done, as the Minister of National Defence has done professionally, for years to do so, to refer to PASOK and PASOK's faces, we are entitled to a dentistry, since the President of the Movement could not be here today. You said 'yes' and told me that the word would be given for five minutes. I don't need them. But I need two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u406	You have two minutes, but because you referred to the President of the Movement, who knows how much I appreciate it, I would like to tell you that we postponed the debate for a week to be present. She chose not to be here today, although she would have much more time. You have a burden today, which I recognise will have to do in the best possible way. You have two-three minutes if you want to say something, and perfection.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u407	The first point I would like to raise, Mr President, because Mr Kammenos keeps saying it and is well-meaning, of course, by some Members, is what gives me what I had said in 2003-2004 to the then Committee of Inquiry - in 2005, I do not remember when it was - that the figures were not accounts but phone numbers. My colleague, they were phone numbers or numbers, but the bills were found on our own initiative. I asked for the opening of the accounts in Switzerland. And I would remind you again, because this is where he comes from, that this man has been referred by a pre-examination committee of this House with our own majority and President, the majority MEP today, Mr Bolaris. One of the prisoners. Second prisoner. We have proposed with Mr Mitsotakis and ten other colleagues in 2006 that the Law on the Responsibility of the Ministers should be changed with the then change of the Constitution. I don't remember you signing. I don't remember the coalition then sign. If you had signed it, you must have admitted today that an attempt was made by twelve Members, but we have not become fifty, you see, in order to put the reform procedures into effect. I'm closing up with this. You must also take a test to yourself, speak to the House ten minutes without saying the name "Venizelos". It doesn't make you anywhere. It even exposes you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u408	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u409	Mr President, I would like to speak, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u410	However, staff have not been placed. Don't say again about Mr. Venizelo now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u411	You remind me of the famous trial "Panousi-Dalara" which said: "Dalaras, Dalaras, Dalaras". What am I supposed to do? He's the one we've had for so many years, who's been perpetuating the place. Listen to me, Mr. Loverdo. The Law on Responsibility of Ministers - we have formally proposed the Independent Greeks - as a New Democracy and I have not signed it. Do you want to do something? Our parliamentary representative is currently starting with the proposal to abolish the law on the liability of Ministers with first signatures of our own. You too, let's all sign together, let's get it over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u412	We've done it. But then you didn't sign.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u413	Now. And with retrospective power, with a hundred and eighty MPs. That's all you'll see soon. Now, as far as the open accounts are concerned, Mr. Loverdos, not just did you say they were account numbers, but you also made your own conclusion.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u414	We applied to open the accounts.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u415	You made your own conclusion, which bears the signature of Mr. Venizelos, and you also sign the rest, that then the account numbers are foreign telephone numbers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u416	Others were the bills. You don't remember them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u417	But come on, where the hell broke his leg and opened the bills and they were, and the phones became bills. And now we've found the money. To see now, will you now tell us if the date to be tried has elapsed? This was probably used by the number of phones they had...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u418	Thank you, Minister. Mr Deedias, New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u419	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to give two explanations first. The first concerns the past. The reality, my dear colleague, Mr Loverdos, is that the 2004 Committee of Inquiry carried out by the Karamanlis Government on armaments cannot be said that the PASOK then facilitated the development of the investigations. And the "TORCASO" had to be found through the curiousness of the Batopedi case and various other things found that led to the condemnation of Aki Tsohazopoulou. The second thing I would like to say, Minister of Defence, without interfering with the issues of religious consciousness, is that we in Corfu have the "much portal" say it with the image of the Resurrection, not the Epitaph, but still no one knows.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u420	You have peculiarities there!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u421	The "Water" is given by the return of the Epitaph to the church.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u422	Mr. Philie, as a religious expert, you're...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u423	Mr Philly, your religious education is indeed impressive!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u424	Please, be quiet. The situation has been restored.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u425	Mr. President, may I have a moment?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u426	Yes, I will.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u427	Mr. Friend, as you tell me, in Corfu on the first day of Easter, the dawn, the images of the Resurrection take place, and then the door closes in the Virgin Mary of the strangers and the priest knocks and says three times the "stop gate" and the third one pushes with the image of the Resurrection and enters. This is, of course, another issue, but in any case, because you were kind enough to take part in the debate with Mr Kammenos, I say this to reach a religious common place.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u428	Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u429	We now go to the issues that concern us today. In view of the position and suggestion of the majority, but also of the ministers who have so far spoken, I understand that the government's majority feel that this proposal is a strong institutional move, an institutional move to defend the transparency of the institutions, the restoration of the rule of law. Ladies and gentlemen, we have immediately stated that we will vote on this proposal. We've made it clear from the beginning. We therefore do not come to this debate in opposition. But we need to tell you a few things. The first is the delay. These documents are located in the Parliament somewhere since the summer of 2016. It should be explained to us, since you are giving this enormous importance - and probably rightly so - in this case, because we have been delayed so far.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u430	Since November.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u431	Do you want to say autumn? Autumn. Secondly, and worse than delay. Mr Colleague, Professor, I was surprised that you were the ones who recommended without commenting on the text. This is a huge cuff here. You will forgive me if I tell you, because too many colleagues here have signed this, that this is almost a foolishness of legal science. That is the text and I will explain why. I will not, first of all, go into the remarks made by our rapporteur, Mr Davakis, who rightly said that in the explanatory note, which is supposed to formulate your thoughts and thoughts, instead of 'fresh' you refer to 'frames'. I imagine that an elementary check could be carried out so that the National Representation is not ridiculed, because this proposal of yours will be a part of the litigation. Secondly, we're going to the analysis after your introductory note. I'll read you an example to see what you're doing. Let's go to point 4 of your proposal, to one of the conventions on the six freshmen here. Write: Conclusion and implementation of a contract with a date of activation of such a contract, a price of tweezers, to the main sub-structor of tweezers, the subject of which is the modernisation of six wells, etc. A award decision to HSY as the main contractor and TNNL as the sub-builder. That's the text. And below you write: 'These are therefore signs of infidelity against the public.' Ladies and gentlemen, excuse me, have you seen this thing in any document dealing with criminal or other justice or basic human seriousness? So let's understand. This applies to all contracts, all six. So what do you think? You say, first of all, the description of the contract and below you write: 'There is therefore evidence of infidelity'. If this text was the introductory text of a trial, the principal accused would leave innocent and inadmissible. These things are not serious. There is no elementary description of human behaviour at all, which makes the then Minister subject to this criminal procedure. There is not even a determination of the reduction in public property, which is necessary to substantiate infidelity. There is simply a description of the limits of the law, without being explained. What are these things? I am telling you, would a malicious manoeuvre say 'whether you want to relieve Mr Papantoniou and you are taking these methods'? Do you really want to make a fool of the national Parliament? What are you doing? How do you do it like that? Could it not be two - three hours of legal work to present here an elementary decent text? Because, ladies and gentlemen, I would like us to be informed and to them I think we can fully agree that, in order for there to be 'float' - I use market expression - that is, money laundering which has not been omitted, there should be a basic offence. This is unbelievable because it has not proved bribery and has not proved bribery, because no accounts have been found. If infidelity is not substantiated, the monitoring offense by L.3691/2008 cannot stand. We therefore have to substantiate infidelity. So we're going to document infidelity? That way? Or are we going to be a laughter of Greek society once again and tell us we're covering up? Because no one will believe that we are so incompetent, that we are so sloppy, that we are so indifferent, that we are so impatient. Ladies and gentlemen, the legal part here that has been judged has first been judged by the Council of Justice of 2011 provided for in Article 86 of the Constitution in conjunction with the Council of Appeal 545 of 2013. These two are related to the Chohazopoulou case. So we simply had to follow the steadfast one seriously. And the evidence is there. There are documents sent by the Prosecutor of Corruption Crimes, Mr. Ryku. Mr. Secretary of Justice, on the subject of Mrs. Ryku you have to tell us a few things. I have the reaction, the announcement of the Union of Judges and Prosecutors, which I present in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Dendias, presents for the minutes the communication referred to above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You know her. You just need to tell us what's going on. We operate institutions. We do not want to express an opinion before we hear you. But we want to hear from you. There is also evidence in the Athens Court of Appeal's report, which is also available in the file, that is to say, the exemption of the sub-components from the requirement to supply materials, the reduction of credit obligations, the reduction of the coverage of the percentage of sub-construction programmes in the refresher case, the ambiguities, etc. All this, ladies and gentlemen, does not exist within this proposal. The general position of the New Democracy is as follows: we believe that any attempt to investigate a gray zone must be made. But we have the suspicion and we are telling you clearly, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, that here you are not necessarily pursuing this. This leads first of all to the remarks which I have just made to you, to the great delay and to the unbelievable sloppyness. It is clear that this proposal was written on the occasional knee rather than on the institutional need to resolve the political scene. If we do not combine this with the last attempt to participate in the symbolisms of the Left, that is to say, in an attempt to unite a wider audience, from the very minimum that has been left at the moment and supports the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, then our suspicions will probably be valid. However, if this is not the case, if this is really institutional sensitivity, then ladies and gentlemen, a number of questions arise. The first question concerns the economic examination. We had requested an economic examination in 2015. At that time the Prime Minister had not come to the House to address the matter and the government majority rejected our proposal. Our proposal is always there, and at some point it is certain that with our own government majority it will be fulfilled. But it would be a sign of your institutional sensitivity that you now consented to, so that we can investigate what has happened in the last twenty-four, twenty-six, twenty-seven months in the country. Secondly, it has to do with the case yesterday, yesterday, the criminal prosecution of recruitment in CEDEFOP to the extent of a felony. Ladies and gentlemen, there it is clear that the matter needs to be investigated on the responsibilities of the Deputy Minister, Mr Polakis. He himself praised if you want, he rose up and said, "I am the one who gave the orders." In this legal science, you know, it's called a moral automobile, something for which justice has referred for a felony. So we have a confession of a moral autonician for a felony. What are you waiting for, ladies and gentlemen? You'll tell me to put forward a proposal. I'll tell you why we won't testify yet. Because if we testify to it and you reject it, we are actually giving discharge. So your institutional task is to refer to the Special Committee, similar to that which we are going to create today, Minister Polakis. And since there is a confession - and I am sure he will repeat his confession before the committee - our work will be very easy. Ladies and gentlemen, the last thing I would like us to make clear here, you will allow me to tell you frankly, we are now acquainted with two and a half years, this is your story about 'your own transparency' and 'our own guilt'. Ladies and gentlemen, the parliamentary cloak you are wearing is now heavy. Would you like me to list some burdens that you carry and which you will carry and which completely remove your claim? Did you abolish or not abolish the National Coordinator's institution to fight corruption? It was L.4320/2015, if you want me to tell you and with what legislation. Did you, invoking transparency, or did you not engrave the independent administrative authorities on one night when you enacted by law the equitable withdrawal of their members before their term of office expires? You yourself did so with a late amendment, even hidden in ratification of an international convention with Belarus, if you love. Have you or have you not respected the PSE's powers, as provided for in Article 15 of the Constitution and in which you have, of course, reached the case of the Council of State? [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] You want to go down a little bit? Did you or did you not eliminate the criminal offences of all crimes committed by infringements of free competition legislation - I am referring to the contractor's cartel - by Article 106 of Law No.4389/2016? Do you remember that? Do you remember what it is? Remember when you voted that all contractors, regardless of what they have done, are not punished criminally? This provision was in favour of transparency, ladies and gentlemen, and the rest of us did not understand it? Did you abolish or abolish the autonomous tax fines for the non-issuance or inaccurate issue of proof with Law.4337/2015, which then you were forced, under the general rule, to re-establish? Did you or did you not derogate from any provision of a number of provisions relating to the award of public contracts without even publishing a notice? Yes or no, ladies? Did you or did you not introduce a special account outside public accounting, theoristicly to help refugees and in fact the source of all the problems and rumours about immigration? Did you or did you not vote for exemptions from excise duty by way of a parliamentary amendment to ratification, if you love, an international treaty with New Zealand? It seems that in international conventions you have a love to put on a watch. Do you remember the abduction of sins from confiscations to universities? Or does Article 68 of L.4386/2016 tell you anything? Doesn't that remind you of anything? Did you proceed or did not proceed to a derogation and clearance of the Ministry of Labour's programme contracts? Despite Article 103 of the Constitution, have you extended or not extended fixed-term contracts and legalised the relevant expenditure? Yes or no? And the worst, and if you allow me to say the most, have you voted or voted for a special property tax arrangement of 15% in offshore companies under article 102 of Law 4446/2016? Ladies and gentlemen, I have a list of five hundred and thirty-four amendments at your disposal. None of them can withstand the criticism of the day's light. Your institutional presence is therefore suffering. She's unrestrictedly convicted. We will vote on the establishment of this special parliamentary committee. However, in the wider context of transparency for the country, which must happen - and it is the only thing that can be solved - it is your departure and the restoration of an institutional framework of justice, transparency and, above all, seriousness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u432	Mr Paulakis has the floor, because he has been asked for his referral. And I would very much ask that there be no answer from the placement. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u433	Thank you, Mr President. I don't know if there's going to be a nephew. However, tidal waves and tsunami of what's coming will certainly exist. Take care, then, of what has happened. We launched the competition, I say it very quickly, to cover empty intensive beds in May with funding from CDC for a hundred doctors and four hundred nurses. Two hundred medical applications were filed. We learned that during the processing of applications the old system was followed by the melting system, which continued to embroider within the ERIC. I mean, to make molecules on the basis of the pools that this mechanism had learned to send back to him in the past. We had a moral, legal and political obligation to check that these complaints were in force. We gave orders, yes we said, and it is our honour and our pleasure that we did, to the administration of the CEDEFOP to send us the files and the rankings they had done, to see if that is true. And oh of the miracle what was revealed? That there had been eighty-eight 'false' modulations in two hundred five applications. I mean, people who didn't have a master's degree seemed to have. People they had, they didn't. There were errors in pre-service times and therefore the wrong order of ranking. So these people said that you have made eighty-eight mistakes and please correct them, because here's the evidence. And that's what happened. And then the CEDEFOP committee came out and there was no objection. Because this was the first time that they were applied to the CEDEFOP by payment of the criteria of the CEDEFOP and correct moleculosis. That's what happened. Wait a minute, we're not done. Mr. Georgiadis is suing for misappropriation of a public document. Who? The political leadership that accepts a complaint will not control it, because it will touch the "saint record" that is hidden in the CEDEFOP, that is what we have done. He comes here and does not propose to waive immunity, to go with the law on the responsibility of the Ministers. It's for the waiver of immunity.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u434	No names references, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u435	But Mr. Javaras and Mr. Georgiadis have filed this lawsuit.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u436	Someone would have done it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u437	To say who did it, not to hide in general. Because there was - and he knew there was - a complaint that had been haunted for the appointments they had made in previous years. And yet justice controls her. We've filed them six and seven months and they're still under control. They're suing, in a record time, they're coming to waive immunity as a MP to me. What I am now saying here in committee, and the committee concludes that I should be asked to go with the law on the responsibility of the Ministers. Of course I will. If you dare do it, let's see how many scumbags the bag put. So what happens now? Along with me and Andreas Xanthos, the Minister, they report and sue our two partners and a ministry employee who did the job of control. The Attorney's Attorney with a three-page text, from what we've learned, says the case needs to be filed. And that's what I announce the day before yesterday, because on the website of the Bar Association, some days ago we had the conversation in the House, the number of the decision that says this case needs to be filed. So the case goes to the prosecutor's office, who will have a great deal of value to see what a justification he does, you will be exposed, he says, "I disagree, to prosecute." Let's see the excuse, because it might not exist. And I say this here in public that I'm going to go to the Ice Arrow's Attorney's office to check the two excuses. Because the Advocate-General cannot say "He's going to the file" and the Attorney's Attorney's Attorney's Public Prosecutor says "He's going for three felonies and one of the officials." That's what they've done. That's what's happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u438	Thank you, the explanations have been given.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u439	Of course I've said who that prosecutor is. He is the one who filed the 'SIEMENS' case, OSE and the one who handled the international Christopher's warrant. That's him.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u440	All right, Mr Polakis, do not go on because for now Mr Javarras is only asking for the floor and we are interrupting a debate. Mr. Javarras has the floor for a minute, please, because you are the press, to close the matter for order reasons.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u441	Mr President, with the complaint lodged, which I had drafted as a lawyer, criminal proceedings have been instituted against those who carried out a mandate from the Deputy Minister. Of course, we didn't turn against the employees. They came from the pretext. That's the first thing I wanted to say. The second is that it has also emerged that from the powers assigned by the Prime Minister to the Deputy, there is nowhere to control and supervise recruitment of the CEDEFOP. From there and it was created that without any right it intervened and processed a record, which, based on the law protecting personal data, if it causes harm to others, provides for and punishes a felony. However, these should have been dealt with more bravely and instead of abusing public prosecutors, they should at least, to the extent that they do not like justice, respect one and only respect one, that it is a state function and he has the honour in this democracy to serve another state function. In this context, therefore, decency should be placed when it comes to justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u442	Thank you very much. And I have the honour to invite the Prime Minister and President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, Mr Alexis Tsipras, to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u443	Ladies and gentlemen, I have distinguished from the New Democracy Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Teddy, a discomfort in his position. He went up to Stepma to tell us that he would finally vote for the proposal for a pre-examination committee for Mr Papantoniou, but 1/3 of his speech "he ate" to explain that it is handwritten, because it had not even been spelled out - it had passed through the automatic correction of the computer and where it had to write "flyers" - and the other 1/3 of his speech "it ate" to compare the Papantoniou case to the millions of haters for armaments, with a lawsuit made by New Democracy MPs to Mr Polakis and the officials of the Ministry of Health, on account of the fact that he said, I had not given him the authority to supervise the mobilisation of the CIF. Compare you if it makes any sense and you're judging if it makes sense...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u444	That's not a little bit, Prime Minister, to do whatever he wants!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u445	Of course, alas! Can anyone put the hates of millions in the armaments programs, the hate of the remoula in CEDEFOP, with those who have been trying to shed light on everything that you have committed over the years? Alas!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u446	He should also appoint President of the Ice Bay!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u447	Mr. Javarra, please. You took the floor earlier. Don't come back.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u448	Ladies and gentlemen, I really didn't want to start like this, but the positions you've made help us, that's what they say in football 'take, put it down', take it down, score. The placements you've made from here, from this Step, are indicative of both your embarrassment and the great rush you've been having lately. That is why you are constantly asking for elections, not for any other reason, but for any more than a number of cases that have been in the hands of the Greek people for years. You'll tell me they'll get into the light, but there's also the question of limitation. So I'll be placed in detail, and that's why. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate that is taking place today concerns Mr Papantoniou, former Minister of Defence of the PASOK Governments, and was provoked at the request of the Members of SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks, i.e. the majority Members, and has as the starting point six criminal proceedings recently passed on to Parliament. If I'm not mistaken, that was at the end of last year. These pleadings are described in detail the enormous damage suffered by the Greek State by a number of contracts for armaments contracts signed by the former Minister. Because this debate, as I know, is being broadcast live from Parliament's channel and because the citizens who are watching us at this time have been experiencing a harsh budgetary reality for seven years, I intend to speak simply and clearly. I would therefore like to make three comments. Observation One: We are talking about acts or omissions that took place in 2003. How much do we have today? This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In other words, it has been fourteen years and it is only today that Parliament is called upon to set up a committee of inquiry, and all the wings of this House are saying that they will vote in favour of it. What does this incomprehensible delay relate to, since everyone agrees that it must be a preliminary investigation, and even when we talk about cases that have damaged the public with hundreds of millions of euros? Is it related to the reluctance of the House to investigate criminal responsibilities of politicians in such cases? Is it related to political interventions in justice, which have not been successful in bringing the case-file to the House for so long? Is it related to some sort of conspiracy of silence, notoriously, as they say in the mafia language? The people who listen to us expect a clear answer to these questions with great interest. And you know, she is not expecting this answer from the Members of the parties who have submitted a request for a preliminary inquiry, i.e. from the Members of SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks. Citizens know very well that if there was no political change in January 2015, this debate here in the House, the pre-interrogative for the armaments of the period that Mr Papantoniou was Minister, would never be. If the Greek people wait for a clean answer, they expect it from the parties that ruled the place and who were responsible. It is awaited by the New Democracy and the PASOK, by the parties that have finally led the country to bankruptcy, and today also ask for the change. Only if the Greek people wait for this answer, it turns out, will the Greek people wait for it in vain. He's never gonna get it. Because even in today's debate, and despite the fact that, apparently, these two parties were forced to put themselves in a positive position in the pre-inquiry request, since first and foremost other parties had also had a positive attitude and were afraid of isolation, even today, while they have said that they would be voting for, their leaders chose to fugitive themselves, to abstain from the meeting.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u449	In Malta, he is our president.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u450	In fact, as I was informed ten days ago by the President of Parliament, Mrs Gennamas asked for the sitting to be postponed last week in order to be present. However, he chose to be absent. She did, of course, leave at her feet - from what I have heard, I do not want to blame you, Mr. Loverdos - as the defender of Mr. Papantoniou, from what I have heard...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u451	You didn't hear me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u452	I heard them from my office, listened to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u453	You didn't hear what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u454	I listened carefully, but that's not the point. The point is, he chose that the president of PASOK be absent. The same silence and absence were chosen by Mr. Mitsotakis who...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u455	He's in Malta.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u456	He's at the European People's Party conference.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u457	Of course, alas, there was no flight to talk in the morning and leave later if it had to be in Malta. It is a political choice, ladies and gentlemen. And it is a political choice, which gives the Greek people the opportunity to draw their conclusions for both your embarrassment and your silence and for your fugitiveness. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Observation 2. Unfortunately, on the basis of what the Constitution stipulates, the offence of infidelity against the public for Mr Papantoniou has been banned from the far 2006, i.e. 11 years ago. It took fourteen years only to complete the judicial investigation. As you know, on the basis of the constitutional provision on the responsibility of the Ministers, in the first three years any political person who may have been involved in this crime of infidelity has already unleashed and, therefore, judicial investigation, if and once it has ever been completed, the political person itself can only be touched by a number of paradoxes of it. That sounds very convenient, doesn't it? And I want here to be clear. There is a strong political responsibility for those who have passed this abomination in the country's Constitution, which offers immunity and cover to every minister who is harming the public as soon as possible from committing the offence. And today totally hypocritically everyone in public, all zeros, in public dialogue when they refer to this abortion, an abortion that is, I would say, a disgrace for a European, otherwise, country, is tabling their shame, their disagreement and the future proposal and a promise that it will be abolished. However, ladies and gentlemen, this article did not come from virginity or we found it written in the stone of Moses with the ten commandments. It kind of came up. And as far as I know, the Members and the parties who today constitute the parliamentary majority did not come up. It came from you. He was proposed by Mr. Venizelos and voted...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u458	1864.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u459	...not from Venizelos the Eleftherios, we don't go that far. It was proposed by another Venizelos, which Mr. Loverdos whenever he sees his name, is vaporized. But that's the reality. And it was voted by two hundred and sixty-eight Members in this Chamber with the votes of the PASOK and the New Democracy, with a broad consensus, Mrs Bakoyannis, a wide consensus that you particularly like and even at a time when the two parties of great importance then, your parties, were not so easy to identify. But there you did. And obviously it wasn't about mistake. It is your institutional contribution to this place, your constitutional shield, in order to be able to unleash, without having to do too much effort. What does not, however, cover this constitutional shield that has been protecting the complex for many years? One thing doesn't cover. The "black" money laundering. What is not covered by the limitation you have introduced in the Constitution? To have taken money from a minister, put it in his pocket, and not to be methodically taken care of, to cover up the traces of that money. In a few words, it does not cover for us to be honest. Whether he's arrogant or an amateur. Of course, of what we know from you that you have passed from ministerial headquarters, amateurism to such things you have not shown. Arrogant many times. So if any Minister had made sure to cover the tracks of this money in relation to his criminal responsibilities, we can do nothing today. If he can prove that he put this money in bags and took it to the party, to the parties' funds, without holding a half-euro, he is also relieved and the investigation stops. And I don't say that by chance. I say this because it also concerns the 'SIEMENS' case. SIEMENS is such a case. Well, then, one will ask me well. If that's the way it is, what do you want to do with the pre-inquiry after all this time?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u460	To hide the fourth memorial.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u461	Alas, Mrs. Vulture. That's it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u462	Mrs. Vulture, please don't repeat it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u463	Your President asked and I answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u464	So I will answer you right away, Mrs Vulture, since you are wondering. There are three reasons why we decided on the pre-examination committee with so much delay. The first reason is that for us to drop open light on all the cases that form the puzzle of plundering public wealth and by extension of the country's bankruptcy, it is our moral obligation and our political commitment to the Greek people. The second reason is that we are not entirely sure that this Minister, like other cases that may be followed, because we will not stop here, does not belong to the Albanians. For example, Mr Tsohatzopoulou who was sentenced not to the offence of infidelity, nor because you were very brave to understand that this was not a phone number but a bank account. It wasn't Mr. Tsochazopoulos for infidelity, but for money laundering later. And the third reason is, because looking for something, someone finds something. For example, I say start looking for armaments and beyond what is expected to be found there, and find other things. To give rise, where appropriate, to divisions from the stock exchange period. This can happen too. Because you know nothing of a secret under the sun, just as long as we decide a few assumptions to get them off, so that the sun can see them. If the sun sees them, be sure that there is no hiding place. And in any case, that is what we will do. We're going to rest these cases. And one, allow me, last comment, the third one I promised. Those who say it, because I've heard it over the past few days, that we've decided on the pre-inquiry for reasons of impression, I'll say it straight away, they say nonsense. Because the truth is, unfortunately, that no one today is impressed - and I say again - by such revelations. Millions of arms hates? He tells you, "What happened? No seriousness. Even if we are too many dudes, we can not even come to Parliament to place ourselves." Not only because the revelations refer to old cases, not because they have, in the meantime, taken care of politically next to Mr Papantoniou, his scarf 'e, slowly and what happened' comes from something else more worrying in my view. It stems from the immunity of the public now. In other words, we are not saying something new today when we talk about the misery of the governments of the Caucasus cows of the New Democracy and PASOK in particular of Mr Simitis's period of governance. It's not first of all what we're talking about. They were written back then, society was bogging. The stories about misery and public money that changed hands in seconds were part of everyday life, not only in armaments but also in public works, on roads that cost four and five times their real cost. In the money of the insurance funds spent, to keep the stockup bubble up and the toys played there. In the incredible remnant of Olympic works, in the bank money that has enriched without guarantees the media barons. In the scandalous tax evasion of the financial powerfuls, in the structured bonds - not to say that I do not remember the next - which has damaged the reserves of the funds with huge sums of money, trying to cover up and cover up the black money lists from which clear evidence is given of public wealth plundering. The loans should not be forgotten in the maritime loans of the two former major parties which have been criminalised with disgraceful last minute amendments to the House, again with wider parliamentary majorities, as is the article on the responsibility of the ministers. Another major institutional contribution from you was this one in the place. Amendment which has washed away the criminal responsibilities for the loans of the two major parties. I would like to say at this point that the two parties, PASOK and New Democracy, which have governed the country by 2015, owe you over EUR 200 million in sea loans. You told me that Mr Mitsotakis was absent because he went to Malta to meet the European political leaders likewise. It's not just Mr. Mitsotakis. Perhaps it concerns both Mrs Gennamas and all the representatives of the two parties who go abroad and meet European leaders, leaders or not, who know what has happened so many years in Greece. They have a picture of what happened in Greece for so many years. The question is. How do you look at them and discuss with them that Greece's interest is to come back to things? I wonder. You think they don't know who you are and what you've been doing to your parties all these years? Or are you pretending to be the new ones in the political life of the country? So when these were happening here, the "SIEMENS", the equipment, the big scandal in health, then you were somewhere else, you read. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to be clear. Your vote today in favour of the Committee of Inquiry is welcome, although it does not launder you. The New Democracy may represent the innocent in relation to Mr. Papantoniou. It may be that half of PASOK claims that the time when Mr Papantoniou was politically related is very old, the other half through Mr Loverdus today attempts with procedural terminology and arguments to rinse him out. In any case, however, one thing is not easy to wash. The attitude you have taken over all these years, which the Greek people judged. Because the greatest crime of your parties that ruled by 2015 is not so much the possible crimes of your ministers that will be investigated in this committee. The biggest crime is the toxicity with which you found the Greek society, so that every case of remula and opacity can now be tolerated with apathy. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The biggest crime you've committed, is that you created a given, a regime of "mom, everybody the same up - down, everyone the same thieves are." Crime is, in this way you have degraded and humiliated, I would say, the dignity of the entire political system. And that's not just immoral. It is dangerous for democracy itself. And instead of a courageous self-criticism for all that happened in this 20th century, you had the nerve, when the country was in great circumcision because of your own actions, the model of growth, the remula, the interlocutory that we led to the state of bankruptcy, you had the courage at that time, instead of self-criticising, to shake the finger, saying a little too much to Greek citizens that they are responsible for bankruptcy, because at best you ate them together. Because this has been said and that Greek citizens must feel guilty, because during the times of this great party, they have been deceived and deceived to trust you in the rule of the country, alternating then in power. But when the conversation goes into detail, you have nothing left but to invent procedural impediments and throw the ball in the platform. I say this because Mr. Papantoniou may today seem uncovered politically, despite his efforts to identify fully with the current PASOK which has strengthened Mr. Loverdos' position today, he may have everything that arises at the expense of this examination, and he may be borne by him rather than by his party, or by the system much more that imposed this model of governance and the possibility of becoming remorse in the armaments programs, but I would like to say one thing in closing today's debate: As long as we have the majority in this House - and I assure you for many more years - we will not let any of this fall down. All cases of corruption will reach the end of the day. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You should know one more thing. The fight for transparency does not stop there. There are other cases to be investigated. As far as the case of NOVARTIS is concerned, and as a whole, I would say, the cases concerning the party in the health field - one of them has been transferred to the House recently and concerns officials, ministers of the previous government - I feel that you will not be as careless as you are today in the debate on the setting up of a pre-review committee for Mr Papantoniou and so much 'Japa' defenders of transparency. I say this because this is not going to take long. I have the feeling that next week we're going to have this conversation. It will not be long before these cases are investigated in depth and, indeed, we expect to see your greatness and commitment there in the public interest. So I want to close down with this. This government is absolutely committed, ladies and gentlemen, to transparency. To this end, we will do everything in our power either within the existing institutional framework, which you have formulated, in order to reveal the truth about the great party that has plundered the place or with institutional initiatives at which the opposition parties will soon be invited to take a position. The constitutional review of which the dialogue has begun is such an initiative that the intentions of all of us are expected to be judged. In this context, therefore, I urge the House today to vote in favour of the proposal for a pre-examination committee on the affairs of armaments in the service of Mr Papantoniou. I am sure that in the course of this investigation a lot will be heard and the monitoring world will realize them and the truth will be found and it is important to find the truth, regardless of whether it is some of the offences that are being filed. In the same context, we are also committed to any institutional initiative that ensures transparency in the country and restores the institutional authority of the parliamentary system, because this is our commitment to the Greek people and this commitment will be fully respected.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u465	Mr. Dendias has the floor for a minute before the Minister of Justice, Mr. Kontonis, speaks. Then we shall make it clear to Mr Venizelo that he is asking for something. Here, Mr. Dendia, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u466	It's enough for me, Mr. President. Mr President, I would like to tell you that commenting on the absence of the Chief of Staff, Mr Mitsotakis, in Malta, is not correct. Mr Mitsotakis is outside the country for an institutional obligation, as you have often missed yourself, Mr President, as Prime Minister. We have never blamed you for that, never created a matter for it. I would like to remind you of your absence in discussing our request to set up a Committee of Inquiry into the economy, but then again we did not create a subject of respect for your institutional role. So I would ask you to enjoy the same respect as the Chief of Staff. By the way, you'll allow me two more things. I have followed your position very carefully. In fact, Mr President, as we have said, you have not answered us. You have not answered the questions of the Committee of Inquiry into the economy. You have not answered, despite the strong intervention of the Deputy Minister, if the government's majority agrees, to set up a preliminary investigation for Mr Polakis. You have not told us a single word about the sum of the fine provisions that I mentioned. I would like to say, Mr President, that you clearly have parliamentary realism. And I'll tell you why. You spoke earlier at the end of your speech on the parliamentary majority. You said the word 'as long as we still have the parliamentary majority'. It is clear that you have understood, Mr President, that you no longer have the majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u467	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u468	Prime Minister, if you want to comment on something, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u469	Very soon, Mr President. Mr. Dendias, Mr. Mitsotakis had informed the Bureau of Parliament that he would be here by 5.00 hours, because he then had to leave to go to Malta for his institutional obligation. I was informed, and I had arranged my programme so, because, really, I am pleased to meet him and to exchange views on parliamentary matters. That's the quintusia of democracy. As far as I know, the meeting started at 10:00 in the morning. So it was your Chief's political choice not to be placed today. That's very kind of me to judge. The Greek people will judge. He has every opportunity, if he wishes, to be present, if he does not want, not to be present, to give the floor to a very experienced parliamentary representative, to the parliamentary representative. It's his right. But let me and myself make my political comment, it is not rude to say that today both the leaders of the parties who have been ruling the country for many years and have been responsible for corruption and the phenomena of breaking public money, the old ones that have been deleted with regard to criminal offences, have chosen their absence. That is a political criticism. As far as our argument is concerned that we should make a preliminary decision on Mr Polakis, I would like to say that there is a proverb that says "God loves the thief, also loves the householder". Mr Paulakis and this government, with his insistence and with our insistence we will be entitled. They will come out at the forum of the names relating to the health field, whether those are of the CCTB, or those of the NOVARTIS case, or Henry Dunan, which was recently transmitted. We'll insist and we'll be rightful. However, it is unfair for your parliamentary experience to compare a case that has been arousing the public sphere for many years now, I mean hatred in armaments, and it is well known that this is why you are voting in favour, that there has been a complaint which, in particular, concerns officials from the Ministry of Health, for which we should supposedly make preliminary investigations with the Deputy Minister. I repeat what I said, because you have not listened well. I told you: 'As long as I am here a parliamentary majority and we will unfortunately be for you for many more years, we will not let anything fall down.' [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I understand the anxiety and yours and various other ghosts of the past that come out on TV windows lately asking for elections, but elections will take place in 2019 and we will win them. And until then, nothing will fall down.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u470	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u471	It's not going to be a circle of conversation. Mr. Venizelos, you want to raise a point. You're not going to take the floor. Tell what issue you want to raise and we'll be picked together. It's not going to be a circle of conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u472	Mr President, I have heard the Prime Minister of the country go up to the Step of the House and appear completely invincible. [[Noise in the Chamber]] No, no, no, no, no, no, Challenging. The arrangements of the Constitution for the responsibility of the Ministers have been in force in our country since 1864. In 2001, by a vast majority, we doubled the limitation time to include not only the first but also the second regular session of the next Parliament. This was voted by the overwhelming majority. And the executive law on the responsibility of ministers recommended by Mr Petsalnikos as Minister of Justice was passed by all parties. And from the then coalition with Mr. Kouvelis. However, Mr Tsipras has to be quiet and refreshed, because under the current constitutional provisions, the responsibilities of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL for the destruction of the economy and everything following this phenomenon will be considered at ease by the next House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u473	Thank you very much, Mr. Venizelo. We kept 'in comfort'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u474	That is the essence of the issue raised by Mr Tsipras.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u475	Thank you very much. The explanations have been given. The Minister of Justice closes the debate. Please, Minister, you have the floor. I would ask you not to stay on personal matters. Politically close the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u476	Time to put it on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u477	The technology has abandoned us. To be clear, because they are being kept in practice. The Prime Minister spoke 20-and-a-half minutes with the timer here. Unfortunately, there is a problem in electronics. Mr. Contonis has the floor for ten minutes. Minister, please keep the time at will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u478	I will try, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a paradox. This paradox is that all parties in the House today agree with the government majority on setting up the special parliamentary committee. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] But the opposition parties are saying that behind this proposal to set up a special parliamentary committee there is something fraudulent. The government's attempt, supposedly, to disorientate society. So society for opposition currently sees the government majority after more than a decade to bring to Parliament an issue that was a common secret, the hate in armaments. But that doesn't make the truth shine. He's doing it to disorientate society. Mr. Vorides took it further. That besides this effort, he makes another one using the theme of the memory of Nikos Belogannis. He is trying to speak to a Left-wing audience, precisely because the measures he has implemented were not so fascinating. In this case, therefore, it is not the restoration of historical memory, although for the people Belogannis has always been a symbol. It is not the government's vindication of a popular fighter, a national resistance fighter, who was literally murdered because false espionage charges were compromised. Here again is the impotence of the government to disorientate the Greek people. So there is a disorientation plan, which, in one case, is organized by this government, not because it wants to shine the truth or because it wants a people's fighter to be restored as a state's obligation, but to mislead the people. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is good that we do not have a trial of intent, but that we see what has been done. Fourteen years have passed for this matter to be brought to Parliament and you blame the government for its intentions? What were your intentions? And that's not all. You are pervading this whole situation with accusations of the type that the SYRIZA and ANEL Parliamentary Group were not careful in setting up the proposal, when you know very well that the prosecutors will not send the proposal but the conclusion of the special parliamentary committee. You know that very well, but you're telling them to say something to society. I would therefore like to tell you that there may be flagrant offences, but I would like to confirm something, which Mrs Ryku had made public by her resignation. Three accounts of Mr Papantoniou in Switzerland have already been identified. You know very well, that if the accounts and the content of the money accounts are connected to these crimes, then there is no limitation, because the offence is permanent, it extends to a time that is not a Minister, which does not cover it, the constitutional construction of your governments and can be prosecuted, that is, what has happened with Mr Tsohatopoulos. So the burden of the special parliamentary committee, ladies and gentlemen, is enormous, because during the work if it delivers, and I am sure it will, the judicial assistance requested by the Swiss authorities, will be very different. Mostly for those who tell us we're holding crass and we're not going to find gold. Then we'll see who stays with the crissa in the hand. I'll see you in justice. However, ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Teddy, has been asked, with the decency that distinguishes him, and with a few public prosecutors from the main representative of the PASOK, to refer to the resignation of Mrs Ryku. And I think it's my duty to do it. Ladies and gentlemen, if you have read the text of the resignation of Vice-President Ryku, three data will be collected in principle. Firstly, Mrs Ryku says in her letter that she has been dealing with this since December because she received the order from the Minister of Justice. It was not received by a prosecutor from the public prosecutor from the government, that is what Mrs Ryku said, and we fully agree - 'NOVARTIS' - because until then the previous government had done nothing in this direction. So the government has taken the initiative to launch this case and because of the government initiative the Novartis scandal is now being investigated. First deal with Mrs. Ryku. The second is that it states in the text of resignation that research had reached a satisfactory level in terms of thousands of colleagues involved in the ESS, who - look out! - were financed directly from the Swiss 'NOVARTIS' accounts. Where did NOVARTIS Swiss doctors in Greece and their accounts know? It is right, therefore, that these issues are revealed, as are legal persons in Greece, who were the vehicles to distribute this money to state officials. I won't say anything more right now. These are from the debate we had with Mrs Ryku, on Thursday 23 March, on these issues. That is right, therefore, in terms of these findings. In fact, it says that so far, we can certainly conclude that these misery that I described to you is not even more than EUR 28 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u479	Why did he quit then?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u480	That's why I'm here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u481	So tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u482	That's why I'm here. Quiet. So far, then, the government has taken the initiative to investigate the scandal. Secondly, the investigation was carried out on a regular basis. And thirdly, we fully agree with Mrs Ryku that the 'NOVARTIS' scandal is the triumph of corruption, as she says, in Greece. I, and I said a long time ago that the NOVARTIS scandal might turn out to be greater than this 'SIEMENS scandal'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u483	Well, he agrees. Below.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u484	Why didn't he quit?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u485	Here, however, some claims are made on the resignation of Mrs Ryku. And the first claim is that she was subject to - and is her right - a Sunday newspaper, which, without mentioning names, clearly said: "An interrogator did not send to the public prosecutor, the appropriate interrogator, any evidence that should be sent." So here is the first question, which is why I have carefully said that there are reasonable questions to be asked. From what you have read, there are some facts in the post. In particular, the report by an interrogator from the Prototype President, Mrs Zamanica, to the Chief Prosecutor of the Prosecutors, the prosecutor supervising the work of corruption, that while specific documents had been requested, they had not been sent and in any event were sent late. The first question, then, which I am born with, is this: from where and until on the eve of the publication, the Vice-President speaks of a publishing that is extremely slanderous and sublime, when the post does not exist, is there only the advertising trailer?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u486	How did the paper know?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u487	Secondly, if it is something slanderous, ladies and gentlemen, it is not the post that mentions facts, it is the report of the interrogator. But tell me, is that why there is no structured procedure within the judiciary, to appeal, to tell her opinion, her allegations and her views? And finally, why does Mrs Zamanika turn on the descriptions against Mrs Zamanika when Mrs Zamanika follows the procedure provided for in the code? In other words, it asks for the information which has not been given to it, which it has not been provided to the Chief Prosecutor. What's the problem? Let's see. Because while the interrogator and President of the Protocol says "I do not have any evidence that has been recorded in the confiscation act", the prosecutor reacts in this way. Here, then, we have to take a stand on some of the findings. The shots to Mrs Ryku come neither from the government nor from economic circles, nor from parties much more, come from a colleague from the President of the Primary Council, interrogator of Law 4022. And in this report there are some objections that she had not received two hard drives, which are included in her confiscation report. What, then, are you talking about in the communication you issued in New Democracy? Is it paradoxical or this way of expressing opinions from the competent interrogator? And what despair of justice does PASOK speak of, when an interrogator, a judicial officer, refers to the head of authority for things that it finds, rightfully or unfairly? I am not in the process to say who is right or who is wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u488	What are you doing? You're taking a seat...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u489	Please calm down. You see, all your efforts are falling apart. What support does Potami ask us to support Mrs Ryku - because these three parties issued a statement - when Mrs Ryku from the government in the 'NOVARTIS' case had in fact received the complete support, and this can be confirmed by herself and confirmed in public rather than by a message sent to my phone. I would therefore ask the prosecutor to tell us at last who prevented her in this case, because the government has done everything possible to what was possible in the country's diplomatic contacts, to prosper judicial assistance with the United States and to initiate the process quickly. He did exactly what he had to do, in full consultation with the State Attorney. So I would like to ask myself this: is there anyone who can adopt these views, that is, the views of a public prosecutor against what an interrogator of corruption claims? Or should we move backwards and start to censor the press, ladies and gentlemen? Because the fact that you mentioned, many of you, that the newspaper is pro-government, ladies and gentlemen, you know that goes beyond every limit. Each newspaper can show anything it considers to create a climate of revelations. In this particular case, I cannot understand why you are insisting on this point. If this had been revealed by a newspaper of your own political spectrum, what would you say? Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Dendias said and tabled the announcement of the Association of Prosecutors. First of all, I should like to point out to the House that the competent Association of Prosecutors of Greece has not issued any notice, precisely because it does not take any position, on a purely service item mentioned by two elective members of the judiciary, a prosecutor and a President of the Prosecutors, an interrogator against corruption. On the contrary, the Union of Judges and prosecutors is making some interesting references. What institutional shield does it request from the state to the judges? Who? He's not telling us. Do you embrace these opinions? Because if you embrace them, you should have implemented them when you were a government for twenty years.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u490	We asked for an investigation into the case.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u491	Listen to me, Mr. Javarra. You know that I appreciate both your legal thought and your attitude in Parliament. So here the Association of Judges and Prosecutors, unlike the Association of Prosecutors, which is a member of Ms. Ryku, takes a position, which is more or less related to the announcements of the opposition parties. And I have said repeatedly that when associations take such positions, they lose their credibility and authority, which they need to have, because it is crucial and necessary.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u492	Finish, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u493	I shall conclude, Mr President. So, ladies and gentlemen, what interests in the field of medicine is Mrs Ryku and what corrupt state officials talking about? First, it does not mention the government. But could he clarify it? Because, apart from the need for clarification, there is something else in this matter. Mrs. Ryku is a prosecutor and has all the weapons available to her by the Code of Criminal Procedure if she is prevented from doing the same. Therefore, reports of Iphigenia, etc., should have been missing in this letter. I said earlier that Mrs Zamanika informed her boss with a report as required...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u494	Mr President, it speaks for seventeen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u495	You asked for clarification, Mrs Bakoyannis. Now that you're taking them, don't you like them? Mr. Dendias asked me for them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u496	If you give them at least a mess.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u497	That's right. If they don't, it's obvious why.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u498	Do I have a reason?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u499	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u500	Why did he resign, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u501	So ask her. Because these questions I put today.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u502	Minister, don't answer and finish if you're kind. We have a vote after that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u503	Here, then, are some things rather impressive. Mrs Ryku in the resignation text states that these documents were not sent because they were of minor importance. To say, hard disks were of secondary importance. I am not considering the basis and I am not committed to the basis of the claims. But he says something else. She says by mistake they stayed in her office. Or were they secondary elements, ladies and gentlemen, and they remained in her office or remained in her way. And secondary and inadvertent can't be done. What's the worst? The worst part is that in the answer given by the assistant, the Prosecutor of Eleftherianos, he says "these hard drives were never checked and we never evaluated them". So how does Mrs. Riku say it was secondary evidence? Either not opened and not assessed or opened and considered secondary. Can't you see here an uncontinuation in allegations? Don't you see contradictory allegations? I would therefore like to say that this needs further investigation. Who will do it, ladies and gentlemen? It will be made by the competent judiciary and the institutions that are based on the judiciary are institutionalised to control this case. Could Mrs. Ryuku come over there? Sure. She preferred two months before the end of her resignation. There is another issue here, however.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u504	This is what you're closing down, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u505	I'm hanging up with this. There's another matter. During the year, her Chief of State, Mrs. Xeni Demetriou, the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay, is abroad submitting a resignation and before this resignation comes to the knowledge of the prosecutor of the Ice Bay, she is made public on the stay of the newspaper, without even knowing what this post is. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen. Is this a public prosecutor's attitude, who also calls journalists in his office to provide clarification when justice has institutions and can any issue be resolved in them? Ladies and gentlemen, I am ending this. And in the debate that took place on the loans of parties and the media, did you come here with splendid expressions to tell us "and what happened now? A hole in the water". You can see, however, that the finding sent from Parliament to the prosecutors is already concerned with them. Do you know what's interesting? The interesting thing is that among the prosecutors involved in the case is Mr. Kaloudis. I don't know if the name tells you anything. And the investigation's still going on. So I just want to tell you one, like what the Prime Minister said. The truth is on its way and nothing will stop her. Zola said so, too, in "I blame". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u506	Thank you, Minister. The conversation's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u507	Mr President, the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u508	Mr. Venizelos, you have asked for the floor. In the complaint under Rule 67, you will allow me, you are asking for the floor for a specific provision to be infringed. In my note, no specific provision is mentioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u509	Mr President, you will give me the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u510	There was no question of it. I will give you the floor for thirty seconds to tell me what specific provision you are saying. That's all I'm not gonna allow. Here you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u511	Mr President, I request the floor on the Rules of Procedure because Rule 66(8) and (9) has been infringed, for this reason. The Minister for Justice spoke outside the agenda.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u512	Mr. Venizelos, if we were to apply this provision...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u513	Listen to where the Rules of Procedure were violated.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u514	Go ahead, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u515	The Minister of Justice, in accordance with Article 91(3) of the Constitution, is a disciplinary head of all judicial and public prosecutors.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u516	You're talking about the substance, Mr. Venizelo.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u517	And while he's a disciplinary chief, he comes before the House and for disciplinaryly audited prosecutor, he denounces him...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u518	Please, you don't have the floor. No, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u519	...he is levelling him, reproaching him without apologies, testifying as a class witness, distorting his function and violating the principle of separation of powers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u520	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the proposal presented by the President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, Alexis Tsipras, and the Members of his party and the President of the ALEL Parliamentary Group, Mr Panagiotis Kammenos and the Members of his party, for a special parliamentary committee, is adjourned. There will be a secret ballot to be held in accordance with Articles 8 and 9 of Rule 155 and Rule 73 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. For the purpose of holding your secret ballot, a vote has been distributed to you under the name of the former Minister of National Defence Mr. Ioannis Papantoniou. You have also been distributed by a white ballot and a file in which the ballot will be placed. The vote shall be taken by cross next to one of the three words, 'NAH', 'OH', 'OR'. If the ballot does not bear a cross, this is considered void.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u521	In accordance with paragraph 10 of Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure, in the event of disagreement between the number of votes cast and the number of votes cast, the count shall be repeated. Although after this new count, the number of ballots is higher than the number of votes cast, they are destroyed before the sorting of the number of ballots equal to the number of additional ballots. In making the name of each Member, he will come to the vote, where he will put the file with his vote in the ballot, and the Members on the ballot will confirm by mentioning the name of each of the Members who is voting. I also inform you that letters have been sent to the Bureau by fellow Members and members of the Government and Secretaries on a mission of Parliament and the Government abroad to participate in the secret ballot, in accordance with Rule 70A of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. On the list, the Secretary of Parliament, Mr Anastasia Gara, of the Radical Left coalition and the MP, Mr. Vassilis Yoyakas, from New Democracy, is called. Members of the Radical Left, Mr. Ioannis Sarakiotis and Mr. Imathias, Mr. Apostolos Besiropoulos, are also invited as voters. In accordance with paragraph 6 of Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Athanasios Athanasios Athanasios, a Quaestor of Parliament, will be the chairman of the Committee. I would ask the voters to come to the poll. I repeat that the Members on the vote will confirm, stating the name of each of the Members who vote, his attendance and his participation in the vote. Before the vote begins, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty students and students and four educational sessions from the 12th Municipal School of Corfu. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u522	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The sealed letters sent to the Bureau for participation in the secret ballot for the setting up of a special parliamentary committee to carry out a preliminary examination of the former Minister of State, Ioannis Papantoniou, for possible offences in the context of the conclusion of contracts of armaments of the Ministry of National Defence, in accordance with Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure of the House, will be registered in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u523	Ladies and gentlemen, I am announcing to the House that the President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group and Chief of Officerial Representation Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the Secretary of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr Konstantinos Tsiaras and the New Democracy MEP Mr Kikilias, who are on a mission from the party abroad, are unable to come and vote in today's secret vote on a special parliamentary committee. Vice-President of the New Democracy and Deputy Minister of Athens, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis and Mr Christos Kelles, who are abroad, are unable to come and vote in this secret ballot for the establishment of a special parliamentary committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u524	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned and I would ask the voters to take the counting and sorting of the ballots and exporting the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u525	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the secret vote in this House. A total of 268 Members voted. The vote was taken at 268 votes. Avalanche 259. In favour of the proposal, i.e. 'NAH', 252 Members voted. In other words, 3 Members voted against the proposal, i.e. 'NOV'. They voted for 4 MPs. White: 1. Void: 8. Following the outcome of the secret ballot, a special parliamentary committee is hereby set up to carry out a preliminary examination of the former Minister of State, Ioannis Papantoniou, of possible offences in connection with the conclusion of contracts of armaments of the Ministry of National Defence. My proposal is that the special parliamentary committee should be composed of twenty-one members, representing, in proportion to their power, all the groups of Parliament, pursuant to Rule 156(1) and (2) of the Rules of Procedure. I propose to this House the deadline for the completion of the work of the committee and the presentation of its findings to be within three months of its establishment. Tomorrow, the letters to the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups will be sent to state the Members who will participate in the committee, as laid down in the Rules of Procedure, and I would ask the Parliamentary Groups to send the names of their Members until Tuesday, April 4, 2017. Do you agree with this proposal?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u526	The House therefore agreed with this proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to confirm the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u527	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-28-S1-commons.u528	With the consent of the House at 22.41' the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Wednesday 29 March 2017 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: legislative work, according to the agenda that has been distributed.
