ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-30-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS Today, three questions will be discussed. They are all three to the same Minister, the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Georgios Stathakis. We begin with our second question with number 1075/20-6-2017, the first question of the MP Argolida of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMMAR Mr.Ioannis Maniotis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the activation of a decision on a pilot study of the Argos Household Control Zone. Mr. Maniatis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-30-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I am really glad that we are here today in the Chamber. Since the beginning of the year, I have no doubt every week tabled this timely question, and I am sure that your presence here is due to some positive responses to the specific issue of Eco-Controls. Minister, the issue of Household Control is an issue which has been afflicted for many years by many regions of the country. Argolida, where I come from, is one of the areas where local government is suffering and more than a hundred and fifty small and medium-sized enterprises under the constant threat of relocation legislation to other regions. This is what you realise that under no circumstances is a positive climate for investment in these small and medium-sized enterprises. At the same time, there are many other areas such as Patras, Heraklion, Ioannina and other areas where the Household Control Zones have created a huge problem. In 2014, in order to solve this issue finally and legally, we established the local and specific spatial plans. They are actions which, following the preparation of a study provided for, prepared and ratified by the Council of State, a President-in-Office of the Council, in order to overcome all the problems. In fact, in order to proceed quickly and safely with safe procedures, we had decided to fund the Green Fund a programme contract between the Ministry of the Environment, the Argolida Chamber and the Municipality of Argos - Mycenas, so that this pilot implementation with the supervision and guidance of the Ministry, with a small cost of 30 000, would give the specifications and solve the problems in all other cases too. The question is, therefore, over the last two and a half years, exactly what has happened. You intend to put forward the proposal and the decision that you have taken to implement it so that at last in all the regions of the country the question of Habitats and more in Argolida is resolved, where in recent years the national Parliament has to give lasting extensions of the ban on the law, so that there can be such companies in these areas. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-30-S1-commons.u3	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-30-S1-commons.u4	As you know, Mr Maniatis, the ZOE was a tool institutionalised in 1983, with the intention of the legislator in mind the resurgence of the residential spread and urban activity outside the project, then paying particular attention to the compatibility of the permitted land use. So the ZOE had two goals. It was the circumstantial ZOIs, who were trying to control housing development, which was done without rules and outside the plan, and the ZOIs that were more stringent, as they were focused on environmental criteria primarily, areas that had to be protected at all costs. Today the ILOs do not exist as a tool for housing or urban policy. The ZOEs now have choices, based on the law that we brought to Parliament in 2016. I would remind you that this law prescribes how the municipalities responsible for building up town plans are first defined. This means, practically, that based on the cultural structure of the 1st degree of local government and on this law of 2016 - I would remind you that we voted for it at the end of 2016 and it was a job done on the Minister of Skourletis - the way and procedure by which municipalities are invited to build town plans for the whole country has been determined. One thing is, therefore, that we now have - in in introductory terms - the legislator's 'appoint' that municipalities should now proceed to draft urban plans for the whole region which each municipality has. Secondly - in addition to this - the Ministry has sent these days of land use, which is the regulatory framework on which municipalities are invited to make urban plans in each region. This presidential decree will be adopted relatively quickly. My third point is that the regions have completed their spatial planning and are in the process of being approved by the Minister. Regional planning plans are adopted week by week. One thing therefore is to put forward the idea that this region can now join the rules of general urban planning, which the municipalities are called upon to do with the existing institutional framework. The second option - you have insinuated - is to draw up local spatial plans, that is, instead of having the general town planning, to move on to the second tool provided by the legislator, the local spatial plans. In this case we are talking about a particular region and the amendment of the ZOI will take the form of an amendment to local spatial plans and the adoption of a relevant Presidential Decree. At this juncture, these are the options. The Ministry promotes and will take additional measures in order, at last, after so many decades, to move on to the general urban planning of the country, at the initiative of the municipalities, and to resolve all the problems that have arisen in these decades, in the absence of general urban planning. Diagnosticly, it is up to local bodies or institutions, if they consider it mature a local spatial project, to move forward fragmentally and individually and to ask for the approval of this local project, which is issued by a presidential decree. We are open to suggestions and thoughts.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-30-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Maniatis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-30-S1-commons.u6	Minister, I must admit you've been a little confusing to me. I asked you a very specific question. There was a decision by the Ministry at the end of 2014 that Greece should be entrusted with the first pilot study of local spatial planning in the area of Argolida of the Municipality of Argos - Mycenas, so that, with synergies and cooperation between the Ministry, chamber and municipality, we can see how, in a short time, we can resolve the local problems, but how, respectively, this can be applied to the rest of Greece. My question therefore remains: Will you implement or cancel the first pilot study in Argolida? I therefore ask you very much in your answer to be clearer on this matter. You have mentioned other issues that have nothing to do with this. You told us we were waiting for the presidential decree on land uses. I am pleased that, after two and a half years, we will have uses of land, because I would remind you that under the government's responsibility the previous system of land use has been cancelled and at the same time, there are serious reservations from the Chamber of Technical Chamber of Commerce and groups of investors about serious deficiencies in what is to be done. I had a choice, which I continue to support. Land uses, because they are a very important development tool, must come to the Greek Parliament, be a legislative text, be a law. You have chosen the presidential decree. I hope that this will not be at the expense of investment security. Secondly, forget something that I had highlighted to you and when you amended our 2014 law in 2016. You have put another stage in the approval of urban studies, the pre-approval stage by the central agency. I have warned you then that, Minister, with what you have done, you create another bureaucratic problem and it is not the century to see developments, given that the central council of the Ministry will meet only every six months, that is, twice a year, to decide for the whole of Greece. You took responsibility from the regions and gathered it in the central ministry. Wrong! If you fix it even now, I think you will do well. But let me turn back to the big issue that concerns our debate today. We have more than seven regions in the country that are suffering - rightly you said - from the unused tool called the 'Environmental Control Zones'. You have in your hands legislation that allows you to release, give green light to the municipalities to go ahead. You also have a suggestion to make a first small amount of funding for a pilot site. What do you respond to this issue that will solve the hands of all the municipalities in the country? I would very much like your answer to be positive, because I think it will help decisively many local communities. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-30-S1-commons.u7	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-30-S1-commons.u8	I would like to respond, first of all, to the issue of pre-approval, which is of strategic importance to our planning. Let's assume you're an investor who wants a special peasant to make his investment, tourist or other, which will result in a special presidential decree. In the previous procedure without pre-authorisation, you would be taken from two to seven years, if there were legal disputes, objections to the special spatial area and dozens of other issues, you would be in a process of long-term insecurity, without being able to reach and have a positive or negative signal in advance if the special spatial area you have in mind can function or not, and if not, what problems it has. So, in practice, many people now welcome the mechanism, precisely because it does not meet every six months. Now we met three times last month. He doesn't meet every six months, but up to six months. If he hadn't met, the law stipulates that. We only held three meetings in June. So what does the pre-approval do? The special peasant. I remind you what a special peasant is. I want to make my investment, bypassing or by way of derogation from the existing urban rule. That's it, isn't it? Yes, sir. So I come to say: Do you think that this derogation I ask for in the special peasant to make my investment is likely to have a reasonable course or not? Shouldn't you know that in advance?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-30-S1-commons.u9	How many advances have you made?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-30-S1-commons.u10	Yes, sir. You want to trap it in the old process? Let me tell you how many presidential decrees I found on the shelf when I went to the Ministry of Development, which I was dragging to tell you for how long? I do not want to mention specific examples. It was seven - eight years in this dispute procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-30-S1-commons.u11	You're not talking about the Ministry of the Environment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-30-S1-commons.u12	So the legislator and the government come in and create double security, because, with the prior approval in principle or the rejection in principle, the other one certainly knows how to move forward and take the appropriate steps. So it's an excellent mechanism. I repeat that it has a huge acceptance and it solves this problem. As far as the funding of this study is concerned, we are not doing specific. We now have a question of funding, which is raised on the basis of the institutional framework that I have told you. Municipalities are invited to go ahead with general urban planning and, at the same time, open to individual areas if they specifically want to choose this tool. Funding the whole process is a huge cost, as you know. Obviously the municipalities are mainly committed to these studies. It doesn't finance the Ministry at this stage, with the financial data of the Ministry. With the Green Fund, which is an option, we are trying to resolve the issues of funding the availability of funds from the Green Fund. As you know, containment of 2.5% has caused problems. We will bring a few amendments to the next bill, precisely to create a greater financial margin for the Green Fund. We are also looking for additional financial instruments. When we're ready, we'll let you know.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-30-S1-commons.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, before entering the next question, I would like to inform you that the committee of inquiry into health scandals in 1997-2014, set up in accordance with Articles 14 et seq. of Parliament's Rules of Procedure and for which Parliament's plenary has set a deadline of three months from its establishment and ending on 21 July 2017, calls for a three-month extension of its operation. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-30-S1-commons.u14	So the House unanimously agreed. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to read to you the relevant communication on today's agenda on postponed questions which have been postponed by the Government Secretariat. There will be no debate today on three topical questions because of an impediment by the Minister and the State Secretary and they will be redefined for discussion. Therefore, we will not discuss number 1105/27/2017 in the first time question of the first time Member of Parliament I Piraeus, Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou, to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: "Truthsome problems in the Kythera ferry connection". Also, the third question under number 1076/20-6/2017 will not be discussed at the time of a top-level question by the Member of Parliament II Piraeus of the Union of Centres Mr.Theodoras Megalonikou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on “Direct risk of the tourist season being lost for the ferry “Vicchenzos Cornaros”, which is a subsidised line. Finally, we will not discuss the first question with number 1078/20-6-2017 in the second cycle of the Achaias MP of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: “Action for intervention in justice by representatives of the Port Body”. We will now discuss the second question with number 1084/236/2017 on the second question by the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Mikhail Jellonis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'TAP'. Here, Mr. Jelloney, you have the floor for two minutes to suggest.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-30-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, at the end of 2016 the Intermediate Natural Gas pipeline, known as "TAP", and in the Serres Prefecture, began to be constructed in one of the thirteen counties that pass this pipeline. On January 18, 2017, with my question, I pointed out the problems that arise in the construction of this pipeline in Serres Prefecture, i.e. crossing the pipeline from rural roads, from asphalt roads, from public and municipal areas, without any consultation with the local municipal authorities, without transit protocols. On the other hand, I had stressed that the infamous compensatory benefits arising from the company's compulsory social corporate responsibility are at a stage of not endless consultation, as I would say, but "job" of the local authorities, the mayors. For a year now, they have been discussing and discussing with them again and they have not been finalised what these specific compensatory measures will be through the company's Social Corporate Responsibility Programme for municipalities, particularly the four municipalities from which the pipeline is going to pass in particular in Serres Law. We must bear in mind that from the five hundred forty-three kilometres of the pipeline, the eighty-five kilometres pass through the Serres Prefecture, and only one municipality passes close to thirty-nine kilometres. At the moment we are approaching the construction of this pipeline about a year in Serres Prefecture, and these have not been cleared up. We tabled this question on 18 January, in order to answer the clear and clear way in which the compensatory payments are paid to these municipalities and how this will be done. On 10-2-2017 you invited the Ministry to a meeting with other ministries and regional authorities and then responded: "To find the best way of managing this amount and to maximise social development efficiency, this meeting will be held and others will follow in order to specialise these measures which will be given to municipalities per region with the mayors, local society actors and the participation of local MPs." Since then, four months have passed and nothing has happened. I am coming back today, Minister, and I ask you: First, when do you intend to hold this meeting of all the bodies you have proposed, to make clear information on the promotion of the actions of the company's mandatory Social Responsibility Programme? What is the final plan to determine the amount of compensatory debts to the municipalities through which this pipeline passes? On what criteria will that be? How will these amounts be attributed by what service and when?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-30-S1-commons.u16	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-30-S1-commons.u17	Not only did there have been meetings, but we've moved on the next day. On 21-6-2017 the district directors of Karyapidis, Djitzkostas and Metios met with TAP and took the relevant press release from the finalisation - I stress this - of the agreement that we had started the discussions on the TAP Corporate Social Responsibility Programme. I would remind you that, in the light of the discussions, this programme, from EUR 11 million, has increased to EUR 32 million. Of the EUR 32 million at the regional and TAP meetings, which I repeat was held on 21 June and I have the relevant press release, the distribution of the first 9 million committed to buying thirty three ambulances, twenty-two cleansing vehicles, seventeen forest vehicles, sixteen snowyers and six civil protection vehicles is mentioned. So from the fact that nothing has happened, I have the regional meeting on 21-6-2017, which was officially announced in the press and is mentioned in the first 9 million out of 33 million euros. So the program's probably going very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-30-S1-commons.u18	Mr. Jelloney, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-30-S1-commons.u19	Minister, I would again remind you of what you were saying. You said there would be a similar meeting in each region with local bodies, mayors and MPs to finalise the compensatory payments for each county. What you're saying is very general. But I would like something to be clearer. Because you mentioned several times, as in your answer, that 11 million euros were corporate Social Responsibility compensatorys and you took them to 33 million euros, I would like to tell you that the offer on the part of the TAR pipeline company on 3-4-2014 to the Ministry was for 15 million euros. The proposal on the part of the agency - I invite you to see these documents - was about EUR 30 to 35 million and would follow the negotiation with the political leadership, which at that time was EUR 80 million. I also make specific paper on the first offer of the pipeline which was at EUR 15 million. I would therefore ask for the truth to be restored. That's the first. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Michael Jellonis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The second is that at the moment - I will speak specifically about Serres Law - I told you that this pipeline spends about eighty-five kilometers. In Serres Law at the moment about a thousand eighty acres will not be able to be cultivated with multi-annual crops, nine hundred acres will not be cultivated at all, apart from the inability to develop multiannual crops at a distance of forty metres from both sides - twenty and twenty - the pipeline over the entire length of its operation, about fifty years. We have an issue, which is raised by scientific studies, in relation to noise pollution, in relation to vibration, in relation to the increase in nitrogen oxide from 19.5 % to 70 % in the area where this pipeline is to be decompressed in Serres Prefecture. In fact, this study says that the effect is wider, as the plain of Serres is a closed basin with a frequent appearance of temperature, reversal of pollutants, in a way that happens in Athens. Minister, what are the measures for the Prefecture of Serres and in particular for the four municipalities from which this pipeline will pass? These should be transparent. Thirty vehicles here for the entire periphery says the district chief. The region of Central Macedonia has seven counties. This pipeline passes through two counties. The specific compensation for social corporate liability must be directed to the counties charged through the passage of the pipeline. Finally, I am asking for what you have said from the outset, namely a meeting with all the local bodies, a meeting in the presence of Members, to clarify the way in which the compensatory measures will be given, such as the original proposal which was proposed and on the part of the TDI pipeline that the compensatory measures will be given to the municipalities concerned after consultation with the local authorities. What did you do now? To make politics, you have taken the social corporate responsibility, the 33 million, call on the district managers, share them among you, the interpretation of society that is burdened by the crossing of this pipeline, and actually expect the mayors to see whether they will get something crumbs and when and in a way not transparent. I would ask for the last time, because there will be a significant response from the Serres prefecture, in which 20% of the total kilometres of Serres prefecture passes - it is the prefecture - to be cleared and it will be immediately cleared. That's why I'm calling you at Serres Prefecture in a meeting with the local authorities there, with the mayors, to make this clear. This bazaar that's done, "I'll give you more, to the other least," one year it lasts. When will it end? What are transparent procedures? On the other hand, I would ask your Ministry's services in relation to the environment to ensure that the legality of the construction of this pipeline is restored. I would like to raise a point and close it, Madam President. As I said before, it passes through a rural road, through a stripped road, through streams. This damage has not been remedied. When will that be, Minister? When he's gone, why does the project end? Eventually, Greece is not a colony. It also has laws, has services that must safeguard legitimacy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-30-S1-commons.u20	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-30-S1-commons.u21	On the first issue that you raise issues of consultation with local communities, we have done so. We had to increase first of all the amount of money that the HFSF would have given to Social Responsibility. Finish this chapter. Secondly, we had to coordinate regional and local communities in order to find a way forward. This section is closed. That's what I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-30-S1-commons.u22	Where did you call the local communities?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-30-S1-commons.u23	We are. The Department won't do anything else. The three regional authorities have now moved on and are responsible. We're not going to tell you how it's going to be distributed to this...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-30-S1-commons.u24	You committed yourself to calling the local actors of each county.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-30-S1-commons.u25	I repeat. He's been to local government now. The three district officers were found, coordinated. I'm guessing if something of your district manager didn't do it well, he's got the district council, he's got other procedures, local government...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-30-S1-commons.u26	No, it's your commitment to the question I asked you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-30-S1-commons.u27	Mr. Jelloney, you've spoken more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-30-S1-commons.u28	But it is clear that we, as a central state, have managed to reach a regional breakdown and at the same time give the regional authorities the initiative that will do both coordination and dialogue and all that you have suggested. So it's a given fact that the first section closed it. I repeat that on 21 June it became what has been done, so we are in the second phase, where the space for dialogue and final decisions has been given to local communities through regional authorities. There was no other way. Now, on the issues of the legality of the work of the EIF, I would remind you that the project is fully licensed. I'm pointing it out. It is fully licensed on the basis of laws and rules and institutions. If this is not the case, we are obviously open to specific remarks as to whether or not it is applied.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-30-S1-commons.u29	For half an hour, your services came to Serres County.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-30-S1-commons.u30	As for matters that reintroduce the project, I am sorry that we cannot do this. The LPD is being built. It is an important work of strategic importance. It is built at a terrible rate, a mile per day. It's almost half built in the last year. Let's go to the next day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-30-S1-commons.u31	Next is the third with number 1035/16-6-2017.Emergency question of the second-round question of the Athens Parliamentary of the New Democracy Mr.Akaterini Papakostas - Ironopoulou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the energy stability of the country after the landslide in Amytino. Mrs. Papakostas, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-30-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Madam President. In fact, listening to the previous questions, I come to some conclusions from the other colleagues to the relevant Minister. Madam President, before I raise the timely question I tabled on a very critical issue that emerged after the flooding in Amyntheus, i.e. whether the energy stability of the country is at stake or not. We will be told by the Minister, who is for that very reason here. I have therefore come to the conclusion that, in a few issues in this country, on a number of policy axes, such as in the economy - where growth is found - in energy, in public order or in the protection of the citizen, in defence and in foreign policy, we should all at some point be more mature and recommend that there be a duty of ministers, who will do their work on the national axes of politics, regardless of the political views of the parties and of the political material that each party will lose because it is not likely to have ministers from its government, in order to come to an understanding in this place and to have a single policy, regardless of governments, on the issues of energy stability, which I have told you, unfortunately is not happening today. This results in the case of Amyntheus, a decision taken in 2011, still cancer. It's a time-consuming problem, it's not today, but we're in 2017. You're already in governance. It was the landslide, which was expected to have occurred as early as 2011. Since then, there has been the issue. We are so many years later - this is a pathetic and terrible distortion of the Greek political life of our country - in the middle of a heat - these happen in the summer, but exceptional circumstances such as this extraordinary heater - to wonder whether or not the energy stability of the country is at stake because of the non-operation of the plants due to the landslide in Amphintinos, which were fed by his mine. I ask this void - and I am closing my first presentation, Madam President - of 600 MW in what way, at what cost and with what network, is the relevant Ministry of the State thinking about it? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-30-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, too. Mr. Stathakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-30-S1-commons.u34	Let me remind you of the history of the Angers, which you referred to: The history was that they did not exactly fall under the law, because they were not in the field of PPC's exploitation. It is for this reason that a special President-in-Office decree invoked environmental reasons strong and fair, but without safeguarding the money for relocation. So it was a presidential decree without funding, and that was also the concern of the current government. Unfortunately, we've been caught up with events. Our position was immediate. We have decided to separate the relocation from the expropriation of the settlement and to take immediate action. Next week, the relevant legislation will also come in this House in the first bill of our Ministry, which provides for the immediate expropriation of the reincarnations in favour of the public sector, which is completely out of the question of PPC and other legal issues. So that was the government's reaction to this matter. It was immediate and straightforward and was announced by the residents and local actors. Let's go to the second theme on system security after the ammunition. First of all, with regard to the landslide in Amydinos, why and how it happened, we will have findings very soon. The Ministry set up an independent committee, apart from the committee set up by PPC and, of course, by the inspectors of mineral wealth, who are invited by the end of the month to give us their first report. So we will have three findings, and the third conclusion, on our own initiative, is that we are seeking to be an independent committee which decides on this matter. Now, in the third and most important, i.e. if there is a system security issue, the answer is unequivocal. There will be no problem. Firstly, Amphintino, as you know, was not working in the summer months because it has restrictions on CO2 emissions. He worked mainly in the winter months to produce the district heating. However, the station is currently capable of operating if we need it, on the basis of the stocks that the station has and supplemented by other mines that can feed the station. So there is no security problem. Right now, the station doesn't have to work. If necessary, it will enter and support the energy system with its own reserves or additional supplies from other mines. With this in mind, I think there is complete system security and there is absolutely no problem in this regard.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-30-S1-commons.u35	Mrs. Papakostas, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-30-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Madam President. I have listened very carefully to what the Minister has said. I do not want to question what has been said. It remains to be seen in the next few months, because at some point we have to agree with each other in a credible way. Since these are said and tabled and recorded in the Minutes, I believe that each of us honours his words here in the Greek Parliament. It remains to show, Minister, whether these actions, to which you referred earlier, will produce the desired result. That's the one. I am pleased that you are indeed expressly assured, in fact, that there is no risk of energy stability in the country. I have, however, to tell you that we have two - three outstanding issues. The first is that at the moment, after landslide, thirty million tons of lignite are found covered and worthless. You know very well that they have a value of EUR 500 million, perhaps even more. That's the one. The second is that this 600 MW gap, of course in winter, was covered by the Amyntian steam station with remote heating in the areas you mentioned. To be realistic, there is a gap at the moment of the six hundred MW class that costs us and in energy, it also costs us in money, of course, it also costs the country's general energy effort. I must tell you that, from reports, which no one devastated, your ministry - and I refer to the publication of "Kathemerini" on 28-6-2017-, our country's electricity system is struggling because of last winter's energy crisis, where PPC's lignite plants were forced to consume the water reserves that were destined for summer's needs. This is where our next big issue arises, which I mentioned at the beginning of my introduction. Will the relevant ministries, the co-responsible ministries, your Ministry, take advantage of the fact that Greece is at least a blessed country in terms of renewable energy sources? Looking at the facts, seeing what is happening to us right now in the energy sector, we are only content with the fact that we are going to restore to the expropriations of the dwellings that need to be restored - and they are right - and they are no longer residential. Are we going to cover for reserves so that energy stability is not compromised and we're staying there? Is that the vision, which we have as the Ministry of Greek democracy, the Greek state, for the energy stability of the country? That's the thing right now. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-30-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, too. Mr. Stathakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-30-S1-commons.u38	Thank you. I have the impression that there is a tendency to exaggerate to the 'Cassandras', which invoke a lasting threat to the safety of our energy system.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-30-S1-commons.u39	I hope you're not referring to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-30-S1-commons.u40	Last winter was tested at a pan-European level, and not only Greek because, as you know, our energy system in Greece is interconnected with the European system, it has links and can in each case import energy and so on. Last winter we were in a marginal situation and I say limiting because we had the whole network of Europe at the same time needed maximum energy and we had a number of problems in France's nuclear and other key energy suppliers, which made it impossible to import energy at a critical time. However, the system came out well. Ordinarily, with difficulty, but it turned out fine. I think this has shown that the security of our system, the autonomous security of our system - given a pan-European connection crisis, which creates great flexibility in the system - has done so without any problem at all. Therefore, away from us, the security risk of the system. The studies of RAE, the IPTO, have been completed and the national strategy for our energy policy has been completed by 2030, which you indicated in your first position that there must be clear and, more or less as far as possible, an area in which there may be greater convergence. The security of the system is at the heart of this strategy, as at the level of this strategy is the transformation of our energy sector, which in 2018 and in the next few years will have a very different view from what it has today by introducing a more competitive framework, with changes made to natural gas, electricity, production, with the ability to produce energy for consumers through energy communities. All of this is included in a bill - a section that is ready and will be voted on within the next month or two. So under these conditions security is at the heart of a debate, a system, which has proved to be both autonomy in a crisis, but which, based on the design, will have great changes in the coming months, which will ensure system security over the next few years.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-30-S1-commons.u41	Thank you. The debate on the topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-30-S1-commons.u42	With the consent of the House at 10.52 p.m., the sitting for Monday, July 3rd, 2017, at 11.00 p.m., on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: a debate on a pre-dated order, in accordance with Rule 143 of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, at the initiative of the Chief of Staff and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, at the level of Heads of Parties on the economy, the decisions of the Eurogroup and the commitments made by the Government, in accordance with the special agenda, distributed.
