ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS We begin with the fifth under the number 252-7-11-2017 topical question of the first cycle of the MP of Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the building problem of PAAL Sitia's engineering laboratories. The State Secretary for Education, Research and Religious Affairs will answer Mr Baxvanakis. Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, there are two very serious problems facing the PSA Sitias and they appeared in 2005. More specifically, the PSAL Sitia are without laboratory rooms, after subsidence made in this section of the building. The restoration of the damage never happened. Somewhere, though, laboratory courses had to be done. All engineering equipment for the conduct of the courses has therefore been transferred to other inappropriate rooms at various points in the school complex. Equipment is not a machine that you probably carry from one point to another. The computer laboratories at the PAPAL Sitia, as we refer to it, consist of four different laboratories: a laboratory of engineering constructions, a cooling-air-conditioning laboratory, a machine-tool laboratory and a automotive laboratory. And apparently the lessons are made by teachers toward students. However, the rooms temporarily hosting lessons, apart from being small, are both inappropriate and dangerous. In other words, they do not comply with the laboratory minimum standards, nor with the hygiene and safety rules. The students are barely standing up in the cooling lab, as in the machine laboratory, where there are safety problems with accidents, as I told you. The laboratory of mechanical construction is carried out in a small space without ventilation, while the automotive workshop is done in an underground space without the necessary ventilation. What's the crazy case? Crazy is that while there is mechanical equipment, it cannot be used because of lack of space. Engineering workshops are carried out with superhuman efforts thanks to the valuableness of teachers and the dangers of teachers themselves. And as if it were not enough to subdue part of the building, which created a thousand two problems, in addition, in 2010 a masonry was removed from the then prefecture of Lassithi, so that visual inspection of the bearer would be carried out in order to prepare a static enhancement study. Since then, so far the workshop halls have been abandoned and half-grained, they have haunted. The study, obviously, did not proceed with several pretexts. I testify to the practical and relevant photographs of the building, which may be in a quiz "What do these pictures remind you of?" Well, the answer could be, "It reminds us of a bombed landscape in Aleppo, Syria." [[At this point, the Member, Mr Emmanuel Syntrakis, presents for the Minutes the above photographs, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The building is standing there in its black mess, to remind us of the abandonment of the bourgeois state - all the governments over and above your own government, because for three years you have been responsible for these issues, the acute problems of education as a whole - and to show the picture of normality in schools, stumbling up in the miserable property infrastructure. To conclude, Mr President, the questions are as follows: First, when will the study of static adequacy of the old building proceed, but with a specific timetable and immediately, with the sole responsibility of the state and the direct grant of the Municipality of Sitia, and in order to take the workshops to the appropriate workshop rooms required? And secondly, until then what practical measures will be taken to ensure that laboratories are carried out in suitable and safe areas? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u3	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u4	Mr Colleague, as you quite rightly said, the conditions under which the laboratory courses are carried out in the U.S.A.S.A. are far from satisfactory. I would say, in fact, that they do not honor us at all as an educational community. But, as you also know very well, the role of the Ministry of Education for school accommodation infrastructure is purely operational and is related to the design of specifications for the preparation and implementation of the relevant buildings according to their size and capacity. You also know very well that the municipalities are responsible for planning, studying and carrying out school accommodation projects in accordance with Law 3852, the well-known 'KALIKRATITS' law. The municipalities therefore have the power to prioritise their technical programme, to cooperate, of course, with the relevant training addresses and are also responsible for the maintenance, repair and improvement of existing teaching courses. If some municipalities do not have the necessary know-how or staff or resources, they may request assistance from the Building Infrastructures, which is the successor with regard to the educational structures of the School Buildings Agency. On this issue, as informed by the Lassithi Secondary Education Department, on 31 October, a meeting took place on the very issue of EASA Sitia's building problems, involving the Mayor of Sitia and representatives of the EASA. At this meeting, the mayor committed himself to repairing the precipitation and, indeed, with a certain timetable of work, even though the municipal engineers have a workload and there are problems arising from the building up of the school with other school units. We're watching this. Although, as I told you, it is the municipality's responsibility, the Ministry of Education is monitoring the development of the whole issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u5	You still have the floor, Mr Synergy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u6	If I understood correctly, Minister, you said that the role of the Ministry is subsidiary.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u7	He's a deputizer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u8	Auxiliary and auxiliary, possibly, etc. Look, some things have a limit. What do I mean by that? From 2005 until today, twelve - 13 years have passed. They've been past governments, New Democracy, PASOK, co-government, now you've been in for three years, etc. We're listening to the same trophy. Just the same shrub! Watch why I'm saying this. Because the history of the actions that have been taken is very specific and, in fact, this history reflects the indifference, the abandonment, the deterioration of vocational education as a follow-up to the cuts in state funding for education, the merger and abolition of sections and courses of the ESDP, the lack of parts of integration and parallel support, apprenticeship, unpaid work and much more. In any case, let me not analyse them, that is not exactly the point. It's about, but that's not exactly the point. I mean, as I told you, the problem starts in 2005. The former prefecture of Lassithi was first prepared with static lesions. Because of 'CALKARATI', as you said, in 2010 the process was stopped, because the school roof repairs, maintenance of school buildings - went to the municipalities. Protests were followed by a letter and signatories to the Municipality of Sitia and the Region of Crete. The answers, who were they? They disagree in some way, and what you say is that responsibility is exclusively there and they do not want or have no staff, etc., which, in part, may be so, but is half the truth. It's not the whole truth. The Lassithi Regional Unit is renounced, saying it is not its competence. And the municipality at the end of 2014, after having received a resolution from the PESAL school board, replied that due to the cost of studies - EUR 240,000 in total - and a lack of funding is unable to solve the problem. So, obviously, there is no staff and the technical services are obviously unable to respond to this issue. At least that's what the city says. On the other hand, however, there is also the question of sub-financing. In fact, I will present in the Minutes and the lecturer's letter of protest in 2011, the school board's resolution in November 2014 and the City Council's decision in December 2014, which mentions what I told you. From Anna to Kaiafa. No one takes responsibility and one takes responsibility for the other. And you're all responsible for this. In our opinion, the municipality or the region does not come out because the state no longer has responsibility and has transferred it to the municipalities and the region. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Where's the responsibility? The fact that no one finally says that everyone supported "KALIKRATI" and the powers taken by the municipalities without resources, while, on the contrary, over 60% - 65% of the resources were cut in the municipalities. So the government does not take responsibility and throws the ball at the municipalities. It is, if you want, and an indication of what kind of review of "CALKARATI" wants to do. I return to the question, Mr Minister, now what are you going to do? This could be the meeting. But if the municipal council's decision says that "I don't have the money to go ahead with reconstructing the school building," it means that this should be financed. Where will it be financed? You have to take care of it, the state.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u9	Please, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u10	So you will grant the municipalities the necessary funds for repair, construction and maintenance of school buildings, in this case the Municipality of Sitia and, secondly, we are talking about directly, will we? - will all pending cases of study and of earthquake protection and static assistance be advanced in order to ensure the proper, safe and secure operation of schools and, in this case, of the ESDP, so that workshops can work? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, too. Mr. Undersecretary, you still have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u12	Mr Colleagues, even though you know the law of 'Kalikaratis', you know the responsibilities and responsibilities of every body exercising public authority in the country, you insist that everything in this country is the government's responsibility. It's not like that. Self-government bodies are elected, they have responsibilities, they have responsibilities. In our view, therefore, every citizen and much more an elected representative of the people should bear the responsibility where they belong. I told you in my protagonist that if some municipalities do not have the know-how or have the means or experience to respond to some of their responsibilities, as far as this is concerned, they may ask for the help of the 'CITIAN INFRASTRUCTIONS'. The concept of centralism, which is everything regulated by the central state, does not agree to us. We are in favour of decentralisation. The first and second degree authorities are elected bodies, they have responsibilities, they have responsibilities. As far as your general remarks are concerned, I think it is not right. The 2017 budget reversed a downward trend of eight years in public education expenditure. After eight years of downwards for the first time in 2017, public education expenditure increased by 5%. Of course, they are far from being considered satisfactory. But the downward course has already been reversed. With regard to your general comments on vocational education and more specifically on the institution of the apprenticeship class, I have nothing to comment on. I'm referring you to any PSA. Ask any of our teachers, ask the thousands of two hundred graduates of the ESDP who participate in the apprenticeship program, and you will get the answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u13	Mr President, I would like to speak, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u14	Mr. Loverdo, it's a conversation of up-to-date questions. What do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u15	If you can and if colleagues have no objection, my question, which is postponed because of the Minister's impediment, is now to be postponed and to speak for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u16	I should like to give the floor to those who will not be discussed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u17	If you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, the Secretary-General of the Government, Mr Kaloger, informs the House of what timely questions will not be debated as a result of an impediment to the relevant ministers. The first, with number 248/7-11-2017, top-stage question by the MP Xanthi of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Gregorios Stoyannidis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Following the licensed number of jobs in casinos", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister of Finance Euklidis Tsakalotou. Because of the preparation of legislative work. The fourth under No 245/6-11-2017 topical question of the first cycle of the Athens Parliamentary Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Helen Zaroulias to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Financial costs of the attacks by para-state elements", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister of Finance Euklidis Tsakalotos. Cause: preparation of legislative work. The third, with number 215/3-11-2017, topical question by the MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject of “Difficult developments regarding the sale of AEGEAN “The National”, will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the Minister of Finance Euklidis Tsakalotou. Cause: preparation of legislative work. Athanasios Davakis, Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Second cycle of student housing allowance applications", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr. Gavroglou. Because it will be at the Regional Conference in Komotini. The seventh question, No. 249/7-11-2017, the Seventh question of the First Cycle of the Serres Association, Mr. Anastasios Megamomoustakas, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "They are looking for... musicians at the Serres Music School, will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs Mr. Gavroglou. Because it will be at the Regional Conference in Komotini. The third with number 212/1-11-2017 a top-level question from the First Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: “The financial losses from the night’s end”, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Papanatsiou. Cause: It will be located at the Regional Conference in Komotini. The sixth question under number 217/6-11-2017 in the first cycle of H' Vice-President of the Parliament and MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance, concerning the "Publication of Mr. Aki Tsochatopoulou's Property", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Papanatsiou. Because it will be at the Regional Conference in Komotini. The second under number 237/6-11-2017 topical question by MP II of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Taking measures in favour of small savers, who lost their money with the debt cut in 2012, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Juliarakis. Cause: workload. The fifth, under number 101/17-10-2017, topical question by MP II of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panayotarou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Ragda increase in measles in the country", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Health Mr. Xanthi. The fourth under number 191/30-10-2017, a topical question by the Member of the Parliament, Heraklion, New Democracy, Eleftherios Ausgenakis, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Exploiting the settlement of the outstanding debts of the EEAS", will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Polakis. Cause: workload. The first question under number 164/21/5-10-2017 and application for the submission of documents of the petitions and questions of the Deputy Laconia of the New Republic, Athanasios Davakis to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "MOMKA 2017, will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Minister of National Defence Mr Panagiotis Kammenos. Cause: government mission abroad. Please, Mr Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. I have tabled this question to the Minister of Finance since July. It's four months of continuous deferral. Responsibility for answering, as the Ministry says, is Mr. Juliarakis. His office, Mr. President, is very kind. It shall inform and inform it in a timely manner. I don't have any complaints. Their behavior really is exemplary. However, the four-month period is going too far. As you are an old parliamentarian, you will remember that colleagues on our own route to these benches, when they were asking questions and the Minister himself did an incident. I remember not accepting to answer as State Secretary for Foreign Affairs, on behalf of Mr Papandreou at that time, the Member saw them with many years here in the Chamber. I don't have that problem. Could the Treasury make a division and the State Secretary answer me. That doesn't offend me. I am happy to accept the Minister's answer as a political response, which all three members of the government who are in this ministry support. So, I ask you very much, one of your own interventions in this direction, on this issue, to be effective. For our part, it is necessary and, if you do, it will also be particularly welcome. However, I am taking the opportunity to table two documents on another subject. I do not want to leak and the leaks never characterise me in the years of my parliamentary journey. Mr President, I would like to refer to a real scandal involving the sale of equipment to Saudi Arabia, with a so-called transnational agreement signed in June 2017. There is no such transnational agreement. I am tabling a relevant document of officials from the Ministry of National Defence, as well as a similar document from the Ministry of National Defence responsible for the equipment programmes. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Andreas Loverdos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In these unacceptable actions, 64 million euros were lost for Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u20	Please finish, because this is another question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u21	It must be the fault of someone, and with lies it does not come to fruition, the strong parliamentary criticism we make of it in a temperate way, but by demanding decent and equal answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u22	You're welcome. On the question of questions, we have raised the matter several times in the Conference of Presidents and, in fact, we have said that the reasons must be stated in detail why 'the workload', for example, is not a cause for postponement, as we all have a workload. They must be more specific than those of the Ministers. The Conference of Presidents has also taken a decision on this. The President of Parliament, Mr Voutsis, of course, does what he can do by pushing on these issues. So we will address this once again by pressing, because in a different way we cannot achieve this. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to the debate on the sixth under number 143/24-10-2017 in the second cycle of the Independent MEP, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the subject: ‘The laws do not apply to judges? Do they have their own laws?’
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u23	Is my question going to be discussed now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u24	Mr Papagelopoulos, this question had to be debated first. If you want Mr Baxvanakis to answer the other question again, we should change it. Otherwise, the turn was to discuss first yours, and since you were late, we moved on to Mr Baxvanakis. So what do you want? Do you want to move on with you or with Mr Baxvanakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u25	I have no problem with that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u26	Mr. President, didn't you invite me? I'm waiting for an answer. Why do you change it because the Secretariat girls tell you?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u27	Because the Secretariat...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u28	Men Loverdes must not ask for the floor, and because you are in Stepma, he must raise another issue with the Bureau!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u29	No, no. Look, I started out properly, but because the Secretariat...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u30	Okay, so do I. I like the girls at the Secretariat.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u31	...he had an objection, I'm obliged to ask the ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u32	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u33	If you insist, we shall proceed to your question. So here you are, Mr Nicholas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u34	Unless the girls of the Secretariat, because of the excitement of the beauty of my fellow citizen, did the wrong eyes and you did the wrong thing to do that you didn't hear what Andreas Loverdes said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u35	Oh, no. I need to interrupt. Look, I made an observation, but I couldn't take his word away. He told him he was out of question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u36	All right, these are well-known lofty chalks. Now he's come to say other things...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u37	I told him he was out of question. What else can I say? He didn't answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u38	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u39	Here, then, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u40	However, thank you and the ministers very much. Mr President, following the chaos which broke out in the Greek society, where the publications were much - the editors' newspaper said that the judges are above the law or that there are summaries of proceedings, "Republic" said that Mr Sacilariou identified an appeal by his colleague within a month and many such a request I will make - the Minister present, Mr. Papagelopoulos, on 23 October, said: "After the last suspension granted by the President of St.E, on the submission of statements "by way" about the current and retired judges, I am studying and examining how the government will ensure equality and equal treatment of all citizens, so that there are no credits and patriots in the administration of justice." We're just here to hear the way. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, don't put on the time we talked about before. Thank you. It is clear, therefore, that the Minister accepts how some judges consider themselves to be 'patriots' and even though justice must be blind, it happens to be one-eyed. At an unprecedented speed in time, the judges managed to obtain a temporary order not to lodge statements anywhere. In their case, the S.H.E.'s plenary really shook lightning. He convened, judged and cleaned up a decision that concerns no one but the judges. Whoever has a knife eats watermelon and everyone else stays with the skins! I am saddened, therefore, by the fact that there are some who do not understand that court judgments that are inconsistent with the legal sense, such as those concerning Herianna and Pericles, and that of the judges, are asking questions about how to award justice. I am speaking with judges and I know that many of them - I do not even know if they are the majority anymore - are, unfortunately, literally dying in the search and buried under volumes of pleadings, defending the public and social interest with that very life. However, there are others who go through the back doors to the offices of the other authorities, who serve interests and make decisions that “eye out”. At the Lamia Cooperative Bank, for example, they took their counsel after thirteen years. The EUR tens of million scandal that damageed the public and thousands of shareholders was dropped. The same is the case in Halkidiki with the ruthless carabinata circuits. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Politicians, canalarchs, publishers, pimps, national contractors and bankers are currently accountable for hundreds of millions, but justice goes like a turtle. And here, Tsukatos is waiting. Did she vote yesterday? We didn't find out. Others such as Papantoniou, Mandelis, Akis and others, while they were found to have millions, are tried either by turtle step or by prank sentences and are recognized as refreshingly justified with funny excuses. At the same time blind justice puts extermination sentences, I repeat, in Irianna, in Pericles, in the cleanser of the House because he had, he says, a fake high school dismissal. The last name, however, was taken with the fake degrees, and they put her in prison for a few months, because she was with Prime Minister Samara. In the Gaydos funds, however, for an amount of one to eighty in relation to Akis, Chochazopoulou, they put life in life, while Aki twenty years! So I ask you directly: Do we have justice to serve the rich and to hide how some judges get rich, indifferent to the poisonous remarks of society that says "Yannis buys, Yannis drinks"? The citizens therefore have a demand to hear today from the Minister of Justice how the political leadership explains that the decision, which I am passing away to put its thinking on to most points against common sense, has been cleared up in record time and has been published in its expiry of the deadline for the submission of statements from time to time. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] By the way, Mr. Minister, how many judges have you submitted from where you've been and how many not in the last three years? Above all, Mr Minister, do not forget to say here to the Greek Parliament why you have not yet taken the initiative you promised, despite the fact that, on 23 October, you have committed yourself to doing so quickly?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u41	Mr. Nicolopoulos, I believe you've been compensated for over time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u42	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u43	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u44	Until a few days ago I thought it was Taleyyrand who told Napoleon: "It is worse than crime, it is wrong". However, as I read recently in a chronograph by Peter Mantaios in "THEMERIDE OF THE STATES", it is more likely that this phrase would have been said by Antoine Bulle de la Mer, a legal politician, a personal advisor to Napoleon, who had also served as chairman of the French State Council. So the president of the French S.A. could not imagine that after two centuries, his current Greek colleagues, members of the Council of State in Greece, would confirm his classic but surprisingly intelligent phrase. The S.E.D.'s recent decision on the electrical statement of the place you had, in my view, as a simple citizen and not a minister, is both, is also a crime. It is a huge legal error, as I will very soon be presenting to Parliament and to the relevant committees, when the new law on electronic submission is discussed at any time. At the same time, it's a big crime. It's a crime against the prestige of justice. I have recently stated publicly that the Greek people want justice high, very high. And I personally because of my past, even higher, as high as possible. However, is there a Greek who believes that the decision we are discussing today is still to the minimum extent in line with the high prestige that the institutions of justice need to surround? Ladies and gentlemen, the government is determined to implement its commitments to the Greek people for full transparency in public life. We are already working on and very soon we will submit to the House a new law which will solve all the problems that have arisen in the recent decision of the S.H.E. There will be no more compromise on the fight against corruption and on the prevalence, as far as possible, of openness in public life. Finally, as far as Mr Nikolaopoulos' questions are concerned, in the first question how many judges have made a statement from you and how many not in the last three years, I can say that according to the data available to me over the last two years, which the electronic submission applies, in total, about four and a half thousand judges have submitted an electronic statement from where you had five hundred ninety eight in 2016 and six hundred five in 2017. As for when the new joint ministerial decision will be re-issued, I inform Mr Nicolopoulos - he has escaped from it - that it was adopted the next day in a record time by the Ministry. The following publicity of the decision of the Board of Directors was published, a joint ministerial decision was published. Of course the Union of Judges instantly appealed against it. I consider it very important in my dentext to refer to the compliance rates of all the declarations required from where you were. I believe that from these percentages, Mr President, there will be some useful and why not teach-in figures.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Minister. You have the floor, Mr Nicholas, again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u46	Mr President, you realise that the Greeks and Greeks, who have now heard the Minister say that even if the government emerged from the Greek people, whatever the House says here, the judges are a state in the state. Four and a half thousand judges and how many people made a statement? Five hundred and six hundred. And he made, he says, the next day a new ministerial decision. And when they got out, he says? They're back on the move! And they did well. Let's think over here, of the three hundred had done only ten where you had done it! Poor girl! That is why your presence here was very useful, Minister, because I am sure the judges do not live in glass. They'll be asked by their children, the classmates of their children if they're different from us. And because I do not want to be general, Mr President, I would like to remind you that the first minister to go to prison after the repatriation was former judge, former prosecutor! I would like to tell you that the first sentence that Greece ate in the European Court of Justice was in 2003 because a prosecutor imprisoned and sentenced to an exterminating financial penalty for the media and journalist Yiannis Daskas. Today I was told how the anti-corruption stories go - and the court rejected it. Also, a retired judge was the grandmother, who told the police department of our neighborhood, "the economic crisis and the possible bankruptcy of the country forced me to make money out of the banks, I had put it in the closet", denounced theft of 2 million euros by Grandma in cash and jewelry, he said, incalculable value! She wouldn't want to do anyplace, I'm sure. So the question of where you came from is a good one. The answer given today by the government to the Minister responsible is interesting. And true, if there was even strict control over those who are being filed, would there be today Chief of Officer Opposition, who would hide behind you, or be gone and quit? Look. We know very well - and better than me Mr Papagelopoulos - that the lost millions would have been found in the Hippocrates state, where a supreme judiciary took the shot and another man made the forefront today on the Lagard list and sold the money, as well as the 'blacks', would have found that of the judiciary, which, with its front relative, coordinated the settlement of Pentelis and others, as well as those who recently in Mykonos went and bought expensive plots, as well as those who in Halkidiki build villas and circulate in cars like your former predecessors, Minister, where you are sitting. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So let them be recorded in the Minutes, because you were the ones who were and the NDA, I'm sure you know that you know what the tapes of the service are writing about so many of these things and you don't now expect Nicolopoulos from Patras to tell you. But I will testify them to be here in the Minutes if anyone is ashamed. They all have a name, Mr. President. Since, however, they stay without control without tabling evidence, they also stink the other judges, the honest ones. Will you now say "Korah eye turns out"? I don't know. However, when he saw the light of publicity, the love correspondence between a high-ranking judge of the Council of State and a student of the National Judiciary, to whom he taught, “they pushed the island.” But when the pink scandal became the subject of the then and now President of Skopje, Mr. Sakellariou, sent the file with Mr. Randus's love mail to the then Minister of Justice, Mr. Paradisepoulou, and while he drew up a report, which he sent to the disciplinary board, he released him. And now? Now we've read it, and I'll testify to you, because it looks like you may not read - that it turns - the newspaper writes - on its old lanes. He was appointed by Mr Sakellariou, chairman of the committee, who will carry out the examinations for admission to the National School of Judges in a few days' time. However, as the centre-right newspaper wrote, "Dimouratias" - I will testify to you - did not prevent the poor people from commenting on whether candidates become judges will fight whether or not they should appear in the bikini or deep decolette tests! And in the Sunday press, however, there was a similar ethos and content reported by the newspaper 'DOCUMENTO', which was signed: 'The Rados examiner is inspected' and said that Mr. Randos was relieved, after the disciplinary body considered...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u47	Please, Mr. Nicolopoulou, finish. We have gone far beyond time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u48	I shall conclude, Mr President. We're on our own from what you see, I'm done. They could not be tolerated as evidence, because they were - they say - illegally. The judges who checked him disciplinaryly, however, overlooked two things. First of all, in addition to illegal emails, there was the testimony of this lady, who admitted the relationship. Secondly, it was not the subject of personal relations, but if it had given it the matter because of these relationships. In any case, however, the chief superior will be head of the examinations, and in the latter time he seems quite comfortable. We don't know, the paper says, if you're comfortable, they'll be the ones being examined. So we ask and I close, Minister. Prosecutors and ministers are reading newspapers? They live in the world? They live in their own world? Because with so many other things, which are reported here with questions in this House, I think they should, at least, be investigated. For it seems to me that no one has invited the editor or the publisher of the newspaper "PARAPOLITIC" who published on 7 October that Minister through a third person is trying to change five hundred euros in five-and-a-half euros. Really who's bell ringing for? I am therefore tabling all the relevant documents.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u49	Finish, Mr. Nicolopole.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u50	Because there are no answers to questions I've been filing with such evidence for years, at least, now, at least, they've been filed to see them and - who knows? - Someone can be found at some point exploring them. Thank you for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, too. Minister, do you have the floor, but I will also ask you if you can answer it: As is our Constitution, can it have intervention - in everything Mr Nicolopoulos says - the government, the House or anything? Because speaking here, you realize that...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u52	He can send them to the D.A. You're a doctor...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u53	Let the Minister answer that, Mr. Nicolopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u54	So your wife would have told you from CEDEFOP that this is where they are being sent to the prosecutor, that the ministers are sending them to the prosecutor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u55	Please let the Minister answer. The floor is given by the Deputy Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Mr. Dimitris Papagelopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u56	I, Mr President, have before me the question by Mr Nicholas, on other issues and not on what he raised today. I have no objections, of course, if Mr Nicholas asks me with a timely question to answer that question. Today I'm going to confine myself to the opposing person and not to all the other things he mentioned. Of course justice, as we all know, is independent and I think that in recent years it has been doing its job well. Now, of course, I can't tell you right now if he's involved in this post or the other. If you ask me, if you ask me the question, I will address the competent prosecutors and answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u57	I will put them back in the hope this time for your commitment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u58	All the questions, Mr Nicholas, which you have tabled to me, I have answered them and sent them to the competent prosecutor and I have attached the answer if he acts in interrogation, if he makes a preliminary reply. Otherwise, I can't order...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u59	I wish Mr. Contonis would do that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u60	Please, Mr. Nicolopoulos, don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u61	I'm the last one, as former prosecutor, who's going to force a prosecutor to do what I didn't even want them to think to me, that is to impose on a prosecutor what he's going to do! The prosecutor is aware of his duty, he must do so, and if he does not, there are competent institutions to control him. So I close by saying what I did not allow 30 years as prosecutor no one would tell me to tell me what I would do, I will not do it now as a politician to my old colleagues. And I'm coming back to the question. I told you that I would read you a table from which we would have very useful and teaching conclusions. In the Greek Parliament in a total of nine hundred and thirty-nine, they submitted a statement from where there were seven hundred ninety-five, or 84%. In the third asset control unit of the authority on unleashing, to which the judges are subject, in total eight thousand sixty-sixty-sixty-eight, they submitted sixty-sixty thousand forty-eight, or 77% participation. Let's keep this. To the Inspector-General of Public Administration in a total of two thousand-thirty-one, they submitted two thousand-seven-three, or ninety-three-three-three. In the port in a total of eight thousand, seven thousand seven hundred sixteen, or 96%, submitted seven thousand. And in the police out of a total of seventy-three thousand, thirty-one, they submitted sixty-eight thousand, or 92%. There is therefore no doubt that the vast majority of those responsible for an electronic declaration from where they were concerned submitted their statements in due course. This means wide acceptance and response by the Greeks to the government's attempt to hold full transparency in public life at last. Those who react to this effort do so either by opposition at best or because they want to hide something at worst. I - everyone knows - I am untreatedly romantic and optimistic, which is why I want to believe that the reactions to the fight against corruption are due only to an opposition vibrant and not to skeletons in the wardrobes, layers, lockers and offshores of some. In any case, the debate in this House, which will take place very soon in order to vote for the new law, will be revealing, I hope pedagogical, and I sincerely hope that there will be unpleasant surprises for some. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u62	How much was the court rate?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u63	I told you. In this category there are others, it is not just the judges. It's 77% for that, and the amount's reduced.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u64	Because in the four and a half thousand, the five hundred...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u65	You're welcome, Mr. Nicholas. That's not how it's going to be discussed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u66	You're right, but mustn't the Minister answer? There's no math coming out!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u67	I think I've answered that, Mr. President. Can I repeat them?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u68	I don't think that's necessary.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u69	At four and a half, what percentage are the five hundred, Mr President? Is it 77%?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u70	They were paroled. That's why the percentage was small.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u71	But he answered it, Mr. Nicolopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u72	So people can hear it. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u73	Thank you very much. We move to the first with No 244/6-11-2017 topical question by MP Kilkis of the New Democracy Mr Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgiontas to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Urgent need to restore the buildings of the 2nd PAL Kilkis". Please, Mr Georgioda, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr President. Undersecretary, in Kilkis last autumn, we had the misfortune of having an intense seismic activity, which, more than any other problem, also raised problems in the 2nd ESDP building complex, a building in which the students of the ESDP and this afternoon students attend the Kilkis DIK. Unfortunately, this seismic activity showed a problem of static adequacy, which existed in this building. The necessary autopsies were made and the Building Agency of the Municipality of Kilkis, as it was due after the autopsies, prohibited courses, in general, not only in the building that had the many problems, but also in the surroundings and of course banned the use of the second building, because it is close to each other. This has resulted in a great difficulty for students in the first place throughout the period and the need, by way of derogation from the opinion of the building service, finally to use the one building which was considered dangerous. In other words, while we have an opinion that no buildings should be used, one is unfortunately used. Again, however, the problems are not solved and the students of PSA and DIK lack the workshops that are necessary and you understand very well that without workshops, they cannot provide the students with the necessary tools to complete their training. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. It is necessary to find a temporary solution to this issue. We understand very well that the studies and the necessity of intervention, which must be carried out in the building complex, will be delayed, but I would ask your answer first on the provisional issue and then see how the final solution to this issue can be started. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u75	You're welcome. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u76	Mr Colleague, as you rightly said, from the earthquake that took place last year, the building of the 2nd PESAL Kilkis has been hit very seriously and the technical services of the municipality have been banned from using the entire complex. To date, there has been an effort to find spaces for the realization of the courses and today the courses are held in three different buildings, which, as you know, are the OAED building, the building of the Centre for Agricultural Education "Dimitra" and the building for the propat, which is located in the area of the 2nd ESDP. However, these buildings are only the theoretical lessons and, as you rightly said, a professional high school without the practice of laboratory exercises cannot be understood. A few days ago, at the celebration on October 28, on the eve of the festival, in the presence of mayor Kilkis, it was announced that the building of the OAED workshop, where the laboratory will be transferred and where the laboratory will be held from now on. Already, as the secondary education address informs us, the municipality delivered the keys to the school director, while the water and electricity connection has been restored and the building has been cleansed by municipal workshops. Of course, despite the fact that the laboratory exercises will take place, the use of four different buildings for a school's courses is extremely dysfunctional for both the school director and teachers and students. The final solution, as you know, will be given when we can, with the goodness of the TEI, which is based in Kilkis in its newly built building and when the transfer takes place, the building that the TEI uses today will relocate the 2nd PES. We hope that this will be the final solution and that this will be soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u77	Thank you. Mr. Georgiod, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u78	Minister, let me say that we fully agree on the assumptions we have. I am pleased that we have even this concession development for this temporary solution in the particular building you mentioned. But I am obliged to say this, outside of understanding the issue, outside of the good intentions, the Ministry in this excellent case - and I say it is excellent, because we have an issue that has to do with the risk of a building, we are not just talking about better conditions, we are talking about a building in which students cannot stay for another hour - you understand how responsible we have to be towards such a big issue, which is already employing students and their parents and teachers. However, we cannot, when there is an opinion on any activity, use of one of these buildings at the moment. The municipality of Kilkis is the third municipality to an extent in the mainland. It has eighty-four schools and the grant from the Ministry to ensure a decent maintenance of all these schools' buildings was along with the VAT of 110,000 euros annually. You understand very well the great effort made by the municipality. However, in this extraordinary treaty either it has to do with moving TEI where it is at the moment, or it has to do with becoming operational in the building, which you are giving us at the moment to temporarily house the PESA, it is necessary, Minister - these are exceptional circumstances - an economic aid from your Ministry. The necessary studies must be carried out on adequacy, the necessary contractors must be made, I mean for a definitive solution. We have all these matters in the intervening period. I think that the legislator had these exceptional circumstances when he defined them, those which both politically and legally give the obligation and the right to make use of the relevant provisions by the Minister and to make sure that the municipality of Kilkis is given an extraordinary grant, who is actually trying, but you understand how big these issues are, so that we do not have students in Kilkis, in the small Kilkis, who go to four different places so that they can finish their professional training. Please, Minister, but I think this is the time of the Ministry's obligation in accordance with the circumstances, which I described to you as having to be financially strengthened, because that is what is at issue at the end of the day. The intentions are understandable. It's a pleasure to hear the assumptions that we all see throughout Kilkis' society. It will be recognised by the society of Kilkis, at this particular point in time, that the substantial intervention, the strengthening of the Ministry to the Municipality of Kilkis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u79	Please, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor again for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u80	Mr Colleagues, I am pleased that we agree that the need to restore the proper functioning of the school is a common place for all of us. It is not the government's intention to shift responsibility or to charge other bodies, in this case self-government, on matters where all of us must try to help in so far as everyone has responsibility and responsibility. I think that, with the cooperation of the government and self-government - and I think all the local bodies and the Ministry of Education - we are seeking to restore the functioning of the school as quickly as possible in normal conditions. We will look very seriously at the demand made by the school and the municipality through you, because you are really right that emergency solutions are needed. We also stress that the municipality is given assistance from the building infrastructure, in terms of study capacity, specifications and any assistance can be provided to design, studies, until the solution is restored. With this commitment that we will look very seriously, and with the responsibility of the Minister himself, this issue should be added - in confirming what I have said in my prototype - that we hope that soon the TEI will be transformed into its newly built building, and we will also be able to agree with the OAED - which I do not think has any objection - to the conversion of the second ESDP school into the building currently used by the Kilkis TEI. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u81	Mr President, may I speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u82	You know that dialogue is forbidden.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u83	I would like to confirm what the Minister said in his second language, if I may.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u84	Here you go, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u85	Minister, I will address to the Kilkis Municipal Council the request to make a specific request to the Minister, and I will ask you really to see it in the spirit of your current position, to strengthen the Municipality of Kilkis and the schools throughout the region at this difficult time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-two students and students and two educational attendances from the 7th High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I would like to say that the parliamentary control meeting has been completed, where Members ask the ministers on various issues and get answers to resolve the issues. That is why we are seeing a few Members in the Chamber because they come to ask specific questions and get some answers. We will shortly be entering the legislative work. We're gonna have a little break, and we're gonna continue in a little while.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u87	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and the whole draft law of the Ministry of Finance's "Agreements on the purchase of games and other provisions". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 9 November 2017 to discuss the draft law at one or at least two meetings, one on the principle, articles and amendments. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u88	So the House agrees. The rapporteur for SYRIZA, Mr Pavlides, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u89	Mr. President, will you excuse me, will we finish tonight?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u90	If there are registered speakers, it will continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u91	Tomorrow morning or the afternoon, why do we have committees in the morning?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u92	Tomorrow morning at 10:00.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u93	We have a Committee on Defence and Foreign Affairs at 11 a.m., Mr President, and we have a matter. Can't he go tomorrow afternoon?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u94	It has been decided by the Conference of Presidents. We can't change it. Mr. Paulides, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with this bill as a starting point, we are starting to complete a comprehensive regulatory framework that is currently in place in the field of toys, the well-known VLTs machines, and in future our next stages are control and supervision in electronic gambling, online betting and the situation in the casinos sector, in a single regulatory intervention at all three levels. So speaking of this need for control and supervision, the first essential thing is to look at what the current situation is today, in which we are coming to take legislative action. And public consultation has cleared too many aspects of this grey landscape about betting, illegal gambling as a whole. Firstly, it is a market in which 80,000 to 100,000 illegal machinery operates, according to studies by the Committee on the Control and Supervision of Games and Universities. It is a market of 5,000,000,000 to 6 million, a turnover that produces a taxable material near 1.5 billion and the losses for the Greek State are of the order of 400,000,000 euros. At the same time, it is a market that increasingly forms a trend towards illegality and gray space. It is no coincidence that - according to statements by the President of the EEPC, Mr Karagorgiou - on the black list of non-legislative providers, dealing with illegal gambling, within one year, the incidents have almost doubled, from 600 to 1,000. That is why the Committee on the Control and Monitoring of Toys has also had to pass on to a positive element, the prohibition on the commercial communication of providers not licensed, namely the exclusion from any advertising campaign, so that an ad hoc intervention can apply rules for providers of advertising companies, in other words, advertising that is not legally licensed. There is a conversation that has developed throughout the past period in Parliament's committees in relation to whether or not to abolish gambling as a whole. I think it is not a process where, as much as these intentions exist, it can easily be with a law to abolish both gambling and dependence. I think that this phenomenon - a morbid social phenomenon - is dealt with by policies of prevention, education, rehab, and especially by control and supervision policies. What is not controlled in an environment of legality and security is simply living in illegality with a prohibition regime. And at the same time this may mean that in the wider circle there are parallel actions that enrich this process concerning protection issues, money laundering, drugs, prostitution and everything else this gray gaming zone has. I think that the toy regulation is primarily the responsibility of the Independent Gaming Authority and the Committee on Gaming Supervisory and Control. And I think the criticism of the Antipoliticism for casinos and for a large network of casinos in each neighborhood and for reducing age limits is, if anything, excessive outside reality. I'll tell you why it's not. Firstly, in relation to this situation, we are amending Articles 39, 40 and 42 of Law 4002/2011, articles relating in substance to the terms of the Greek public contract with the company "OPAP SA" and we are not touching any issues relating to the regulatory framework of the Committee on the Monitoring and Control of Games, such as Article 33, concerning age limits and distances from schools, churches and other spaces. Because it has been heard in the committee debate in Parliament that we are going down the age limits to the seventeen and eighteen years, we are reducing distances and so on and so on, we will be clear. The part concerning the supervisory, regulatory and audit mechanism in this framework does not change. Article 39, on the 2011 Ministerial Bill, Mr. Venizelos, remains as it stands today and is in any case part of the control of the EMCDDA principle. And I would ask all my fellow Members - and I refer to the opposition - to be a little careful in this area. Nor are we experimenting with age limits, which are defined anyway and defined by the Committee on Gambling Surveillance and Control. I'm going through the contents of the draft law in detail. Firstly, there is a drastic intervention in the reduction of machinery. From thirty-five thousand machines we reduce them by 30% to twenty-five thousand VLTs, so-called "fruits". It is a strong intervention that reduces the number of these machines. Secondly, this reduction in machinery also results in a greater reduction in the number of stores hosted by these machines. The previous study - and the OPCW - defined a free market for a thousand five hundred shops, which will clearly host these machines and this market is limited by two thirds, only in five hundred shops. It is therefore a very drastic reduction - more than the reduction of machinery - in the shops that will accommodate these machines. Third and dominant, in my opinion, is the fact that a single monitoring system is being established by the OPAP per machine, per shop and per player. It is very essential that at all times and at all times you can fiscally and supervisoryly check each store hosting these machines and the behaviour of each machine, namely whether it has a bizarre playground in the performances given by the machine, but also by player, considering the player's profile, there is, for example, an obligation to have a player card to be able to play on these machines by stating the number of his identity card - so that you can also have a check on whether there are pending judicial decisions or other prohibitions on the behaviour or the possibility of a player playing on these machines. This I think the identification of the data from the PPP with the player card is an extremely serious insurance link for the player profile. It is one of the most stringent regulatory frameworks available. There are countries in Europe that have been operating in gambling for years without even a regulatory framework, especially the Scandinavian countries, such as Finland or Norway or other countries, such as Austria and other central Europe, which operate in a similar regulatory framework. It is one of the strictest regulatory frameworks in the European environment. Fourthly, it was a very serious debate in the public consultation and by the JITHA, which we invited it to come. We have talked about the policies to be implemented in the area of rehab and prevention by machinery. There was a confession by the representative of the CEDEFOP that in this draft law there are rules and ethics, and we discussed the possibilities of cooperating with the CEDEFOP with the Regulatory Committee, so that there would be a funding from this committee to the CEDEFOP to strengthen programmes for the monitoring, prevention and rehabilitation of players. On the basis of the OPCW representatives' position from the twenty-five thousand machines - the reduced machinery in relation to the thirty-five thousand - almost half of all, that is, ten to twelve thousand machines, will be placed at the OPCW agencies and the rest in shops that will have purely such machines. Approximately half of the OPP agencies' stores will host these machines, around two to three thousand and a half thousand of all four thousand OPP agencies, which will host these machines not in the betting area, but in a separate separator - play room, in which there will be an autonomous and closed space, will not even have a visual image from the public space. And with proper control, based on the player card and age limits will be able in there to play these players in a safe and controlled, legitimate environment. At the same time, industrial relations will be full-time relationships, giving birth to a new labour market of about five thousand new jobs. As I told you before, the strict regulation is in line with international standards and provides the similar guarantees for the protection of players, all restrictions on distance and age are respected on the basis of legislation. We have not hurt any of this, and it is good not to open any debate, which will have no real basis in relation to it, because in committee, things have been heard which are not valid and good in such sensitive issues to be very careful in our public positions and dominatingly within this Parliament. There have also been proposals for an open audit mechanism between the Audit Committee and the Police, so that the Greek Police can make use of the relevant know-how and effectiveness, based on the experience and experience of the Games Supervisory and Control Committee, in order to make these checks more effective. I shall now go into the substance of the articles, anyway it is not much, and I will not get tired, since they are four articles. The first article concerns the replacement of the title of Article 39 of the previous Law, Law 4002/2011, which defines the reduction of VLTs numbers, the corresponding machines, from thirty-five thousand to twenty-five thousand. There will be a VLTs licence for all twenty-five thousand machines. The exclusive rights of establishment, operation and exploitation remain the same as those of the PPP and are not granted to third parties. The total period of validity of the licence from 10 years is eighteen years as a compensation for the drastic reduction of VLTs machines. In Article 2, there is a replacement of the title of Article 40 of Law 4002/2011, which states that the time for the installation and operation of such machines is up to 31-12-2019, with a penalty to remove them from the licence after the expiry of that time-limit without harm to the State, i.e. that until that date they must be installed in the relevant premises. In Article 3, there is a definition of the maximum number of machines in Type II stores, i.e. premises outside PPP agencies that will host these machines, which, from twenty - five machines, the number goes to Fifty and to Type F stores, that is to say, to the PPP agencies, by three defined in the previous Law to fifteen. Thus, this larger concentration in shops or in PPP agencies drastically reduces the number of machinery and shops respectively, so that there is a better supervisory and tax control of these machines. Article 4 provides for the signing of the contract within two months of the publication of the law. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, L.4002/2011 defined more machinery, thirty-five thousand, and more shops, a thousand non-ICP agencies, while this draft law defines fewer machinery, twenty-five thousand, and therefore much less control stores, than a thousand five hundred, just five hundred shops. And I think that the charges of the country's counterpopulation have to be rather self-critical and not a complaint. We drastically reduce machinery, drastically reduce shops, much more and strengthen supervisory mechanisms. I think there's no second conversation about this. At the same time, there is a much smaller market, which means that a market that is completely more controlled and supervised, and at the same time a stronger supervisory mechanism from the OPCW, with a single electronic control platform, as I said before, stores, machinery and player individually. Measures are being introduced and implemented to combat the illicit conduct of illegal games and the transfer of players to a legal market and the aim is to protect the players and the interests of the state. It is ensured that gambling is conducted in a credible and controlled way and that the supervisory and control powers of the state are more effective in this new environment. It strengthens the application of the principles of the game manager and aligns the country's regulatory framework with the best practices in force in Europe. At the same time, the reduction in the total number of machines from thirty-five to twenty-five thousand and the increase in permitted machines per shop leads to a reduction in public access opportunities in gambling and more effective regulation of their organisation and conduct in this market. Secondly, there is a reduction in the locations and the spatial spread of these stores in urban centres, which will contribute to the creation of best supervision and control conditions for the EEPC. At the same time, it is very important that there will be a move of gamblers in a controlled, supervised, safe and legal environment. Finally, it is very important to say that there will also be an increase in income of four thousand five hundred agents and their families, especially in these difficult times. I think the time has come to get into order and rule in the grey area of uncontrolled and illegal gambling and to follow other relevant philosophy bills, which will relate to control and supervision, on-line betting and casinos. A concise position on the important amendments that are coming, dominated by the Ministry of Labour. One is to speed up the payment of the temporary pension to 80% of the pension awarded by imposing an electronic application. It will give an outlet to the truly long period of pension performance in these times. I think that by this process the time limits can be speeded up so that many more of our fellow humans can enjoy one, at least 80%, of significant pension benefits and do not remain all over the world in an environment that is too long. Secondly, it is very important that the amendment on favourable changes to the widow's pension scheme, where first of all a threshold of EUR 380 is introduced for widows or widows for 20 years of insurance and a minimum of EUR 360 if the years are not twenty, but are ten years of insurance and at the same time a corresponding minimum economic size of EUR 380 or EUR 360 for minors and protected children. It is a serious intervention, which fully protects the situation of widowhood and these families. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] There is also an amendment concerning the transfer of casinos. I think it is very important that, in this direction, with the agreements that have been made with workers, this transfer of casinos will be accompanied - I shall end, Mr President, in half a minute - with a strong working environment, with the same working conditions and without any redundancies. As far as jobs are concerned, which may not exist in the new establishment plan, which concerns the people of the terminal or any other post, which will, of course, be abolished, all these people will be able to find a corresponding job on the basis of their qualifications in the new regulation and in the new employment contracts. I think it is a framework, which must and must be accepted by a universal acceptance of Parliament, because for the first time we dare put so serious rules in such an anarchist field. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, too. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Georgadas, has the floor for ten five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a bill, which has a title that shows that there is an intent here to settle matters: 'Agreements on the purchase of toys'. One would expect an integrated legislative initiative to regulate many issues, which indeed exist, which are of concern and which are lacking by the state, once we have decided as a society and as a state to have legal gambling. But here, in the end, we have a fragmentary intervention to resolve a particular small issue, but this also comes incomplete. Minister, at the meeting of committees in the anti-population remarks, you promised that by Christmas you would bring two more bills, one on issues relating to casino operation and the other on the subject of online gambling. That is right, and I imagine you will stick to your position. You also explained your stress to come to this bill now, in view of the Christmas celebrations, to be collected. This is in the crisis of anyone, that there is such a serious issue of legislating in these circumstances. However, I would like to say this so that we can begin to monitor intentions and credibility. In the minutes of the last sitting, on 2 November 2017, you told us: "When this bill comes into plenary, we will have the whole casino framework for consultation." Has that happened? Has he been consulted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u98	Tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u99	Very good. Tomorrow, then, the Minister will bring all the framework for casinos. I got it. Of course, you said - and it is another promise - that when the casino bill is passed and in plenary, there will be the general framework for online toys respectively. We keep this and hopefully so. But the intention, programming, proper work at the Ministry, unfortunately for me so far, at least at VLTs has not been done. I mentioned it last time, and I was accused, and I saw that the majority rapporteur earlier pointed out to me issues that I was supposed to avoid mentioning. But I will not avoid mentioning them and I will tell you why. Today it's like extending to a game. To speak on football terms, we have a football game, an extension is given during the game, but the terms of this game have not yet cleared up, the conditions on which players must participate, with which the state must deal with them. The state must oversee the addiction of players in this, it must protect them, it must filter the whole process and impose rules so that there can be a game whose aim is not only to bring revenue to the state, but it also aims to protect society where it is to protect it. These rules, Minister, have not been in. We're extending to a game that doesn't have rules. And I'll tell you why he doesn't have rules. I read the following to you as follows: "In Decision 225/25-10-2016 of the Committee on Gaming on the substance the strict framework for the protection of players has been abolished, the progress made with previous decisions in this area has been revived." That is what your honourable Member says, Mr Dimitras, in his amendment. Mr Diaras comes in and says the self-evident, namely the regulatory framework, which, based on the Component Law of the Committee on Game Surveillance and Control, had to go through the suffering and preventive control of the Council of State and the adoption of a Presidential Decree on it. Can we have amended him three times and the last time it is clear toward the elastic, in a way that I do not really see any restrictions anymore and that it has not gone through these three times with the two amendments, namely, that they are essentially three regulations and that none of them have gone through the procedure required by the law for sending this decision to the Council of State? This is the Rules of Procedure. He was made by a man. At the moment in all the shops, and in what is to be created and what is to be increased or reduced by VLTs, a man, the chairman of the Committee on the Supervision and Control, has made this regulation. The law, you know, gives him the right to do so, but on his own, by way of derogation and on a temporary basis, until the regulation by means of a Presidential Decree, which is the responsibility of the Ministry, is to send him to the Council of State. How many years do we have a person's regulation? What filter, what condition, what objective process, what scientific knowledge, what data have been exploited and used by any emulsioner, chairman of the committee, to have this regulation? Should we not all be concerned that this whole process should be filtered out, that there should be all the data, that we see the practices that exist in the respective toys in the European Union, that there should be control over legality, compliance with internal legislation and Community law, that the Council of State should ensure preventive control? He promised that within a two-month period - and this is how I interpret it from the Minutes - it was not quite clear - that we will be done with the Rules of Procedure of the Committee on Gambling Supervision and Control - you know that it has not yet become the body of the Committee on Gaming and Control, but that it has taken the regulation - within a two-month period which will end all this, I hope, and here we will be, in order to monitor it - a regulation on toys, which, with the suffering provided by the law, will indeed be the one to protect against addiction, in order to protect against the desire of excessive profit in order to lay down the rules and rules for the operation of stores where such toys will be legally available. That doesn't exist until today. Anyone who continues to overlook the fact that the legal procedure is not followed in this, now that the framework has been stressed and cleared, also has its responsibilities towards society. On the bill, we have a very good account on the part of the government. We had thirty-five thousand machines and twenty-five. Great, we've solved things! Where there were shops with twenty-five, we're doing it with a capacity of fifty machines. Because thirty-five thousand have become twenty-five, on the grounds that the points in which the game is played are limited, so it is easier to control and supervise, it is the very nice account that we can now monitor them. What should we supervise? What are the rules in place, which we must monitor if they are complied with? If you find me here any restrictive rules either in relation to working hours, either in relation to the minimum distances, or in relation to the minimum amount you can bet every day, either in relation to the gift that you can achieve every day, or in relation to the use of alcohol, then you can tell me, understand and agree that, in fact, we have fewer points, we have a good Regulation and because we have a good Rules we can monitor, enforce, safeguard, not only the public interest, but also the interest of everyone who may have become addicted to this game. There's no regulation. As long as there is no Rules of Procedure, we cannot talk about the possibility of better supervision. Things are much simpler than maybe some see them. Clear rules must be in place. We're totally in agreement. They've got to get tough rules on illegal gambling. We are waiting for a regulatory framework, which we will support. The provisions and consequences for anyone who chooses to act in this way must be really hard. There must be a clear framework in relation to the rules, so that we are not exposed to the European Union. Because there are questions as to whether or not the European Union approves both the Rules of Procedure and the bill. These questions I don't raise. They are raised by your own Members in writing, in relation to the competent European Commission and in relation to what is actually happening with the rules contained in the Rules of Procedure. So the account that we made the thirty-five thousand twenty-five is not a record that can find a basis in this whole process. It doesn't matter whether it's a game or two or five. There must be rules. At the moment, unfortunately, the rules have been circumvented. And let's say the other one. This extension takes place on one ground and in the report by DELOITTE, which was presented to us on the last day of the meeting in the committee, the advisability of which we conclude, for which reason we have come to the end in these years, for why the Greek State does not collect a euro from all this process, I have tried to follow it, but unfortunately it has exceeded me. The company has already won a lot in connection with the adoption of the previous regulation, but also with other issues and issues which have been resolved. I really cannot follow the logic and arguments of the DELOITTE report as to why this extension should be granted for these years and without - I repeat - in any way in return. So I expect, Minister, indeed, certain commitments on the whole framework regulation, in relation to what has to do with legal gambling in all its appearances. Please, I would really like this timetable to be respected by the end of the year, so that there is a clear picture, that there are no shadows, that the framework is clear, a framework in which this activity, which we have accepted as a society, with the greatest benefit to the state, but at the same time with the protection of each player. There are some amendments that have been tabled here. I cannot comment on some of them. In my dentistry, I'm going to comment on the rest. The amendment on Parnitha is an amendment to which one can read positive points, but I cannot really understand the rush to come today, when you have said that in a few weeks' time a comprehensive casino bill will come. I therefore think that we cannot come here and have fragmentary arrangements on such serious issues. It should be comprehensive to deal with and view things, with all the data, with all the rules for everyone the same. So I think it's your minimum obligation. I cannot understand the feasibility of this speed. We cannot follow it as long as it is not justified - if you can, explain it - why it is coming now and not in a month. I'll keep an eye on it. Here we are to see it. But at the moment it is surprising that while you have announced that a comprehensive draft law will come to regulate casino issues, we are coming today and we have only one such regulation. I would ask for the explanations, which we will see whether or not we can follow then. The other amendments, which are irrelevant to the bill, concern my second. Overall we find it a bill that came in an adventurous way: it was tabled on the last day the House was about to close again one Friday, it was lost for fifteen days, it was again today, it did not take the floor of your MPs to support it, instead we heard from many of the Members of Parliament about the contents and we have tabled a parliamentary amendment, which actually embraces the arguments of counter-population. There are issues on which you must be put, because we all know that this particular subject is an object which in itself causes reasonable questions and objections, and I think that it is our duty to make it clear. Minister, the argument that this activity generates profits to the Greek public on its own is not an argument justifying any fragmentary regulation, which facilitates situations, solves issues, but without seeing the great picture that you have the obligation to see in relation to the player and in relation to the Greek society in which he is today and in relation to the illegal gambling, which all this activity has ultimately failed to contain, but has developed it more. In this respect, I see no move on the part of the official state to deal with it. You said last time: make proposals to tackle illegal gambling. Did you ever ask for this? Did the Opposition ever ask? It is with great pleasure that we make too many proposals. We have ready proposals. I told you one last time in committee. You didn't tell me whether or not you accepted it. You cannot therefore accuse the Opposition that it did not bring proposals, as if a matter were raised, which was never raised by you. Let us raise the issue of dealing with illegal gambling. Indeed, anyone who pays taxes in the Greek state for an activity that was legally granted to him to exercise it should be protected against unfair competition. That is a rule and we accept it. This does not mean, however, that in the name of unfair competition, because we cannot deal with it in addition with many benefits and rights to the provider of this activity. So we need to find a measure, a means, a way, a legislative framework that safeguards all of our demands, because we all have a responsibility to society and the world on such a big and difficult issue as this is of gambling, lawful and illegal gambling, because both of us are, to give clear answers and to unanimously show the intention of the whole House to deal with them, not distractly, not in the context of legality, the law and not without listening to European directives and without going through the suffering of the superstitious control of the competent judicial bodies when this law imposes on us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty students and students and two educational attendants from the 7th High School of Trikala. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We're moving on with the special speaker of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr. Kefalidou. Please, Mrs. Kefalidou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the draft law: 'Agreements on the purchase of toys'. Of all the discussions that took place in the committee, what emerged with certainty is that in the end the present draft law is the only thing that surely regulates the "OPAP S.A." from a failed business plan that did not come out. During the course of the information by all stakeholders, many and enlightening things have been heard. First of all, we recognize that it is an undeniable need to regulate and control the gaming area. That is what no one can disagree with. But the government has not yet told us what it intends to do with the great issue of electronic gambling. The Minister admits the fragmentation of his legislative initiative, since the bills both for electronic gambling and for casinos are next. Today, if I remember correctly, Minister, you promised that there would be the casino bill in the consultation. There's nothing. Obviously, you also understand that this draft law is only an intention to regulate the need for gambling and, of course, it does not manage to monitor the situation in detail, but also effectively. The main law, which regulates these issues as a whole, is Law 4002/2011, which authorised the issue of a ministerial authorisation decision to issue “OPAI S.A.” in order for there to be thirty-five thousand gaming companies, the great VLTs. Indeed, by the decision of the Ministry of Finance of 0100010/4-11-2011, the Ministry of Finance was granted a licence to install and operate by the “OPAP S.A.” six and a half thousand VLTs through its agencies and eighteen and eighteen thousand VLTs to third-party concessionaires. The validity of the licence issued by the original law was for 10 years. The price for this allocation was fixed, on the basis of the first study by the DELOITTE, at the total amount of EUR 566,000 000, which was paid by the ‘OPAP S.A.’. Based on this price, the value of each machine was estimated at EUR 16,000. This draft law, therefore, actually changes completely the 2012 Community-approved business plan, which took place on the basis of specific assumptions made by the ‘DELOITTE’. Based on this first study, the value of the contract for the thirty - five thousand machinery for ten years had been costed at EUR 566,000. Accordingly, the cost of the twenty - five thousand VLTs for eight years, based on these calculations, would be EUR 323,000. However, in your draft law we are discussing, the value of the eight-year contract is calculated as much as the 10 000 VLTs which are deducted, i.e. the 160,000,000 euros, and that is why it is granted in exchange for the Greek State to "OPAP S.A." the eight-year extension. I think we're all done in here, and we know, we've been taught simple arithmetic. I shall therefore speak to you about the simple method of three, which I imagine everyone remembers. I tell you because this will be useful in the following considerations: Admission one. If we decide to answer the simple question 'how many years the twenty-five thousand VLTs have to be licensed', what would we do? We would say the very simple thing: when we have thirty-five thousand machines, which we had to give 566,000, and that figure we gave for ten years, for the twenty-five thousand VLTs, which we still have the same amount - 566 000,000 - how many years would it take? And 'x=14', ladies and gentlemen, not '18'. So what does that mean? It means that the Greek State gives for the overall reduction of VLTs in this draft law, assuming that it should give something. And I explained above that we're sponsoring the PPP for their bad business plan. So this authorisation should be for fourteen years, which means four years of extension and not eight. So quite simply the Greek state is giving a gift to "OPAP S.A." four years. Admission second: Since the value of each machine is estimated at EUR 16,000 per year, therefore for the additional four years, the twenty-five thousand VLTs would cost an additional EUR 160,000 000. And this should be done by the «OPAP S.A.». But let us move on and see what we have today. So to date, according to Law 4002/2011, of these twenty-five thousand VLTs the "OPAP S.A." should be exploited around 12 thousand. The remaining thirteen thousand would have been acquired by third concessionaires, naturally paying a price, because a tender would have been opened by the ‘OPA S.A.’. Now, with your draft law, the "OPAP S.A." is relieved of the obligation to have concessionary and therefore competitors. It will therefore have the absolute monopoly on the VLTs market. We believe that, with these assumptions, the negotiation that is being conducted for the benefit of the Greek public as well as a study requested on behalf of the Greek State should begin. Of course, all the additional concessions offered by the new law to the "OPAP S.A." should also bring additional direct revenue to the State. To date, the questions we have tabled in this Chamber - the three committees that have been made - have been unanswered. There is an ever-new place, and the scenery is blurred, Minister. One key reason is that we do not have an overall picture of the government's intentions. Ladies and gentlemen, after these calculations and their conclusions, I am tempted to remind you of a little of what was happening in the resolution of No 4002, which was made during the days of our own governance and to remind you of what was the attitude of then counter-population. The New Democracy voted against the law and then voted for its convention. SYRIZA lived on the moon of complaints and fire fighting. Mr. Papadimoulis then said that we are turning all of Greece into a vast casino. He said that for the Greek people to regain what we cut into wages and pensions, we invited people to gamble. Today that wages and pensions are down, what are you doing? Thanks to the "OPAP S.A."? Do you remember how you dealt with the agents? As a mixer. Today you say you want to protect their fair demands. Do you decide: were you mocking them then, or are you mocking them now, or are you mocking them and then right now? You then shouted about the monopolistic policy of "OPAP S.A." and said it gave crumbs to the concessionaires, keeping the lion's share for itself. Then SYRIZA blamed us for a charismatic attitude towards “OPAP S.A.”. Imagine that we had foreseen an obligation to give ten people the right to exploit toy machines. Then the current government was beaten for a 100% public PPP, that is, it was in favour of state gambling. Today that the "OPAP S.A." is not only dominating, but the only sovereign of VLTs, I hear no word. Jerk! SYRIZA planted naphthalene and kept his revolutionary vinegar for an emergency time and has worn a silver suit. We then, if you remember, were the bad guys we thought, and we believe that the state's work is to regulate by clear rules and to control their compliance. You, enthusiastised and prevented by the great idea of existing socialism, wanted the state of the mother of infants, of irresponsible and irresponsible citizens. You've made a hundred and eighty-degree turn. Then you accuse us that these things are not happening anywhere in the world. So you who then asked for the immediate withdrawal of the bill, what are you going to do today? You bring a draft law that runs on L.4002/2011 that you complained about, and you further bring three high-value changes, which have been permanent claims by the CFP for a long time and have been the subject of discussions with the Gaming Commission in order to increase the profitability and profitability of VLTs. Most of them are the eight-year free renewal of the contract for the twenty-five thousand ‘fruits’, the value of which, based on the 2012 contract, amounts to 320 million euros. Logically, its value must be higher, since the "PAP S.A." will no longer compete for the next eighteen years, because it will be the ultimate monopoly on the VLTs market. In addition, the same arrangement exempts it from the obligation to have competitors. You reduce the number of VLTs that it has undertaken to develop from thirty-five thousand to twenty-five thousand and in return for an eight-year extension of the "fruits". With the new regulations, therefore, the implementation of the VLTs project has been speeded up, the "OPAP SA" has been exempted from placing all thirty-five thousand machines in competitions with doubtful competitions - let me say - a success, with the direct consequence of recording losses in its balance sheet and, finally, without competitors we have the "OPAP S.A." as a strong monopoly on the VLTs market. So it acquires an important privilege entirely for free. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you say: I will limit the total number of toy machines from thirty-five thousand to twenty-five thousand. Those who are involved know that these ten thousand machines would never be put into operation, since their investment was judged to be non-profitable and also their licence to install expired in November 2018. So you found a hard way to cover the Greek public's loss of "OPAP S.A." from an inconsistent investment and "all is honey - milk". Because it is true that it sounds very thick, especially in times when pensions and wages have become three-digit numbers, you have also found the nice wrapping: We limit, you say, the number of potential VLTs. And you served us. Thus, the largest gambling company managed to make claims that were vital to increase its profitability, since otherwise it would either have to register losses from the injurious development of VLTs or return them back to the public sector without harm. So now, "OPAP S.A." managed to return it, in exchange for the extension of its contract for eight years, which would cost it at least EUR 300 million. Did he get something public back for all this? Nothing in praise! It is worth wondering that no one in the government seems to complain, does not seem to be reluctant. Isn't that a charismatic attitude toward the "OPAP S.A." by a copied galantomus and - with foreign money - public money? The subject of VLTs is already on the Commission's radar - you know it better than anyone - after complaints by casinos. I would just remind you that last November the Commission warned the Greek side not to proceed with the implementation of the Commission's Rules of Procedure. Instead, the Greek Ministry is moving forward and, as the Minister responsible said, "we take the risk". When drafting this draft law, neither one was found to think and ask for the most important study of the social and public interest that should have been carried out, the study depicting the sizes of addiction, and therefore the damage to society as a whole by gambling, without a loss limit, without a VAT on the player's card, without operating hours, essentially without a time limit for gambling sport. For an activity such as gambling, with such social implications, should not be prerequisites for a welfare state? In committee, Mr. Paros, the president of the board, described this, describing in the darkest colors how much the new world has mostly become addicted to gambling and not only. Anyway, you didn't convince us about the necessity for the Greek state to assist the OPAP because its business plan fell out. That is what we consider to be a serious matter for only the company itself, which rightly wants to defend its interests. However, the Greek Parliament must defend the public interest. These actually provide for the draft law introduced today and I will tell you that the big question is not whether we are positive in its vote. The big question that has been going on for days is how you guys are positive about such a draft law. Of course - to God! - Ladies and gentlemen, I don't expect an answer. It's a rhetoric. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need a minute, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not believe that the official state has any business to do with the gambler or the gambler, we who believe that the state's mission is regulation with strict and clear rules, which defend the public interest, namely the interests of the citizens, and we feel it is unreasonable to control compliance with these rules, those of us who believe in the private initiative, we who have been talking, and believe in the need of the large private investment that our country has, we who did not walk in clouds and recognise the priorities that the country ought to have, and the necessary compromises and reforms that have had to have taken place for years - and if there were no irresponsible attitude of the SYRIZA to be both opposition and government as we believe in the age of citizens and in the responsible attitude that we believe the state should have been most protected towards, in order that we have an unreserved and self-reserved environment - which is certainly not a self-reserved sector of the Union - in which is an unregulated nature of the principle of the principle of the Union - which is an openness of the Union - which is an unreal nature of the Union. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, allow me some time. Thank you. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] We shall therefore vote in principle to ourselves and to ourselves, but without closing the eye on the private interests that bomb the foundations of society as a whole. For you, no one would dare claim the same. The consequence of words and works was not and your comparative advantage never became. You will, of course, tell me - and rightly so - that at the time you were saying these revolutionary revolutionaries that you said 'with bullies and pigs', because you did not have the right hands on the ANELs, because you were still wearing the revolutionary costume and why you were not sweetened by power. Now it's all different! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, too. We're moving on with the special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Mr. Karakosta.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr President. Today's debate and the forthcoming vote of the bill on regulation on the toy market is to amend contractual terms of the 2011 Convention between the Greek State and the “OPAI S.A.”, which was ratified by Law 4002/2011. The main changes are as follows: Firstly, the reduction of the games that will run from thirty-five thousand to twenty-five thousand. Secondly, the increase in the number of toys to be installed in type II stores, from twenty - five to fifty. Thirdly, the increase in the number of toys that will operate in Type F stores, from three to fifteen. Fourthly, the extension of the period of authorisation of machinery by the ‘OPA S.A.’ by eight years. That is how we go from the ten years that have so far been in force with the previous convention, to eighteen years. Fifth, abolish the process of granting games from the “OPAP S.A.” to third-party concessionaires. These are the main amendments made to the relevant OPCW Convention with the Greek State. It was found almost at the first reading of the bill that the government's purpose is to serve investment projects of the shareholders of the ‘OPA S.A.’. It also shows that the extension of the VLTs licence by eight years will not cost anything at all to the “OPAP SA”, since it will be the compensatory measure in relation to the reduction of the machinery from thirty-five thousand to twenty-five thousand. However, no accounting study has been presented to us so that we know with accurate financial information what consequences this reduction entails for the OPCW and then for the Greek State. In a spirit of openness and discriminatory political will, within the framework of a consultation and cooperation between the government and the contractors, you will proceed to the vote. Throughout this process, it is particularly important that the role played by the Committee on Gambling Supervision and Control is played, firstly, secondly, by a company to provide advisory support for the management of businesses - and the reason is for "DELOITTE" - and thirdly, the management of "OPAP S.A.". From the actions of these three bodies and from the data we have checked, we draw the safe conclusion that today's bill has been dictated to serve the investment needs of the «OPA S.A.». This finding is neither excessive nor demagogic on our part, since at the hearing of the non-parliamentary bodies in the committee it was denounced by the former chairman of the Audit Committee: during a debate in the relevant committee of the Cyprus draft law, the same subject as the current one, it was revealed that the text of the draft law had been drafted and sent to the Cypriot Government by the "OPA S.A." with the consequence that it was withdrawn. If that Treaty also applies in the Greek case, everyone can draw the obvious conclusions on the unreliability of the Government in the legislative process. In the explanatory memorandum, a prominent position in the submission of the pleas in support of the draft law was the social problem arising from the conduct of gambling, legal or illegal activities. In other words, not much or much, the government has tried to convince us that by dispersing twenty-five thousand gambling machines in the country it is trying to protect citizens from easy access to such activities. This is exactly where the government's deep hypocrisy is found. On the one hand, you say that you want to combat the negative phenomenon of gambling and, on the other, give citizens the opportunity to have easier access to it. This is a legislative initiative which has no logical sequence, with regard to social protection, which could also be associated with forthcoming bills, as published in a media section, on the legalisation of cannabis. It is therefore confirmed that in times of deep economic recession it is emerging negatively and socially harmful, such as gambling, alcoholism, prostitution. The logic of liberation from social taboo by constantly legitimising quasi-hazardous practices and activities demonstrates the lightness with which you treat the basic social values and care for Greek citizens. There is no doubt that these phenomena are not handled from one day to the next, since they are of a very important nature and many of the actors in government function are required to fight them. However, the role of legislative and executive power is fundamental and the right that arises from its operation. With regard to the argument to reduce the illegal gambling to be brought into the market of twenty-five thousand machines with revenue for the state of EUR 300 million - and take note here of a possibility that the Minister has mentioned and for which there is no report - we have to say this: if the Ministry and the competent authorities were prepared and zealous to combat illegal gambling and reduce economic damage, they should legislate appropriately. In other words, they should legislate to collect information about the number of illegal machinery, to tighten up controls, to detect illegal casinos, to immediately cease their operation. So a state protects its citizens from bad texts and not by legalising gambling. Here it is worth mentioning the rules applicable to VLTs. In accordance with the Regulation of the Surveillance and Control Committee, 225/2 Decision 2016, the player is clearly unprotected as no limit of financial loss and loss per batch is set, as well as on a daily basis. In other words, the most discomfort is the discomfort. Let us find another way of making companies profit and another way of meeting the needs of the budget. The crucial question, therefore, is: What will be the financial benefit for "OPAP S.A." from the free eight-year extension of the permit for "shoes" and what will be the benefit of the Greek State? The minister on a location told him that this agreement might be possible for the government to save some cuts in the CSCE. Instead, there are very soon new hard economic measures that will affect Greek taxpayers even more. The Minister will be disproved once again. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] As for the benefit of 'OPAP S.A.', that is clear. It is a monopolistic player in toys and therefore a very important fund manager for a very long time. Who is favoured by this contractual relationship, therefore, is easily understood. The hundreds of millions of euros moving in this area of economic activity are proof of the existence of social and economic pathogens, which are plagued by many societies, but which are particularly affected by Greek society. The acceptance and continued legitimisation of gambling on the part of the current rulings, as well as the establishment of regulatory frameworks with dubious functionality, cannot be acts of a government that respects and protects the citizen, but acts of a government that seeks desperate revenue and of course legislates in favour of private interests. On the contrary, when legislative action results in a reduction and reduction of phenomena caused by intense gambling activity, then only then can we say that there is a positive development for society and the Greek public. The legalisation of gambling and the service of the "OPAP S.A." are obviously issues that you will find in front of you the People's Association - Golden Dawn. Since the first meeting of the competent committee of Parliament, the People's Association - Golden Dawn has taken a clear stand to vote against the bill as a whole, and with regard to the amendments which will be incorporated as articles in the bill under discussion, our parliamentary representative will be placed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Athanasios Bardalis from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr President. With this draft law, the government maintains all the legislation of the previous governments which liberates and legalises gambling, making the necessary adjustments, in order to make this more efficient, both in the business group, i.e. 'OPAP S.A.' and in the state. And the bill may be small, only have four articles on this issue, but its importance for the business group and the urban state is enormous. The government's claim now that the aim is to limit gambling by reducing the number of machines from thirty-five thousand to twenty-five thousand is beyond misleading. The main objective is to attract players from illegal networks to the legal market in order to ensure the profits of both the business group and to obtain State taxes through taxation. After all, as in the debate in the committee on any changes made to the convention, there is the full consensus of the «OPA S.A.». There is indeed a restriction of electronic machinery by ten thousand on Greek territory as a whole and yet, at the same time, there is increasing the machines that a store can host from twenty-five to fifty, and from three to fifteen, as far as the agencies of "OPAP S.A." are concerned. With these changes, however, all you achieve is to ensure a higher profit rate in "OPAP S.A.", since, in essence, the concentration that is being made reduces costs, since shops are also reduced, which are now able to serve more "customers". These shops will mostly grow in urban areas, that is where they will find easier customers. At the same time, due to the reduction in machinery, you are extending the contract for another eight years, and so from ten that it was, it will now apply for eighteen years. But in order to ensure the expected revenues from the “game bus” you have to convince people to play. But the conversion of the country into an endless temple of gambling will have incalculable and disastrous consequences for the people. It cannot be in the name of strengthening public revenues to light up the green light for the widespread dissemination of gambling. You can't sell hope through gambling, because that's what you're doing. You're relying on the unwritten gambling law that mother never loses. And that law is relentless. It's this law that's inflaming the profits of gambling businessmen and that's where you're looking forward to tax revenue. You know that many billions of euros bet each year. But you know that for some it is the fascinating idea of fast, easy profit, risk, hope. For some people, however, under certain circumstances, it develops into a passion, a dependence that destroys their lives. But one always wins: the businesses that trade gambling, which manages the altar of gambling, that is, the local and multinational capital. The legalisation of gambling, ladies and gentlemen, will result in a great deal of profits. On the one hand, the system will monitor consciences, especially of the new generation, when it is anchored under the circumvention of basic popular rights, unemployment, insecurity. On the other hand, the trade of hope through gambling, legal or illegal, is a large capitalist company with profits of many billions of euros a year. But that's the system we live in, that's capitalism. That's the system you're trying to save. But only to those who believe you. Woe to those who will ignore the function of this unwritten law. Woe to those who believe in false hopes and "opportunities" that gives this system. In that case they will pay her very expensive. You also support - and today the SYRIZA rapporteur has also said - the 'OPAP S.A.'. - that five thousand jobs will be created and many other jobs indirectly. And you say this without shame, when the "OPAP S.A." last season proceeded to a voluntary departure programme with which four hundred workers left and those who were left signed individual contracts. He dismissed eight workers within eight weeks for revenge because they protested against various arbitrary behaviours and reclaimed their rights. Through an e-mail to the employees, the company, “OPAP S.A.” is not only announcing new redundancies, but also a transfer from Thessaloniki to Athens. Why? Because, he argues, the volume of work has decreased, thus abolishing many of the existing positions in Athens and Thessaloniki. He abolished recording and checking overtime so he wouldn't pay them. He refuses to sign a collective agreement. It blocks trade union activity, according to complaints from the workers' association and so much more. It is therefore clear that the profitability of this business group also falls on the exploitation of the workers. The work jungle is an essential prerequisite for reducing the profits of the «OPAP S.A.». And since you legalize gambling, it seems strange to you not to tax it. You said to the committee that: 'Yes, we are dealing with a tax deducted from the income of the poor, but there are also casinos lost by the rich. And because casinos lose the rich, this tax is more progressive in a way". That is what you told us in committee, Minister. But you also supported something else, which no one has to do with the reality, that it is worth it. "If we are to cut off pensions or increase taxes, it is much better to raise some money than that." But, if possible. You say indirectly to the workers, the pensioners and the people: "Play as much as you can, because in this way we will have more revenue as a state and return it back to you through increasing wages, pensions and other social benefits". We're talking about a lot of mockery. And it is foolish, because even if we overlook the fact that you are pressing on the poverty of the people and creating false hopes for quick gain, as another chance that the system gives him, in no case will the 300 million euros you intend to get, when your design with the fruits and slots is fully developed, you will not return them to the people. This is not only apparent from the experience of the three years of governance by the SYRIZA - ANEL, but it also seems clear from the preliminary draft budget that you have tabled, where the basic elements of this preliminary draft are, firstly, that workers and people are asked to pay once again and, secondly, that the wealth produced goes to business groups. That's the truth. But from the debate so far it has been clear that the government and all the parties to the opposition are in agreement with the basic. What's that? In that gambling should be legal, you should put rules in this case too, so that it can benefit, as you all say, society. In this, all of you are from the same river bank, despite any differences you have in the issues of the rules that have to enter, the conditions, the number of small casinos that will be created in each neighborhood, the number of slot machines that will be placed in each store. Is it or isn't it? We challenge you once again: must gambling be legitimized or not? That is the main issue. We, as a Communist Party of Greece, are clear and unequivocal. It must not be legitimized gambling. What do you think? In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, with your anti-popular policy, you are devastated the lives of people's layers and you are building slots. If there is a code to the revenues of the state budget that captures as an X-ray the rot, the decline of your system and policy, it is the code to gambling revenues. This means that in Greece, the cut-off wages, the cut-off pensions, the abolished gifts, the liberated redundancies, you put slot machines in place. This is your development policy. This is your vision, except from such a development nothing has to gain but the people have nothing to gain. Instead, he has to lose too much. The big question is the working class, the self-employed of the city and the village, not to stay with their hands crossed. To create the conditions for their struggle to get massive features in conflict with employers and policies that support its interests, which support its profitability. The solution is not in the opportunities that this rotten system gives. It's not gambling and easy profit. Hope lies in the organization, the struggle, the break with the system and its political supports. In my time, I would like to make a few words about an amendment to reduce the excise duty - which is also the respective Minister here - on the value of television advertisements. When I read the amendment, what was easy to remember - and it came to my mind - was the screams of some of SYRIZA Members from this step, even moving the hands that the 'free' is over. 'Whoever wants to have a channel will have to pay'. But come on, that free never ends when it comes to business groups. In this case, the kingdom goes from New Democracy to PASOK and from there to SYRIZA. The free for business groups does not end either with the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK, but with the governments of SYRIZA - ANLE. All we've done is the free guys who go up to this Step and play the capital hunters and protectors of the poor. They must end the people. What are you doing, Minister, with this amendment? You tell the canals: "Okay, you'll pay something to get permission, we'll do our piece, but don't worry, here's us. You will get it back through your effectively exemption from the special tax on the value of television advertisements." And pay attention, ladies and gentlemen, to get the canalarchs permission, they will pay over EUR 230 million. What they will pay, with an amendment tabled by the government between so many other amendments, will now be paid in ten years on instalments. According to the State Accounting Office, through the reduction of taxation, canalarchs a year will earn 20 million euros. Multiple it for ten years. They'll get 200m euros back. I would remind you that they will pay for the 230m euros licence. The tax exemption will substantially get EUR 200 million back. Well, is it or isn't it 'with one hand we take them from the canalarchs, and with the other we give them back'? It turns out, once again, that in the big capital bazaars you are doing well. You are rightly congratulated, Minister, and the government as a whole. Finally, I listened with caution to all the rapporteurs and the special speakers of all the other parties, New Democracy, Democratic Alliance, etc. They have not said anything about this amendment, absolute silence. I wonder why. Didn't you have time? Is it not very important to you that this amendment is not important? Do you agree? If so, say it. It will be interesting for the people to know your position on the government's present. We, ladies and gentlemen, will vote against both the bill and all the ministerial amendments. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Dimitrios Kammenos speaks for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u107	Thank you very much, Mr President. As we have explained in committees, it is a very important bill, because some time in Greek society and especially in financially narrowing ones, we must put a class in terms of black money that is circulating and the innumerable stores of mainly electronic gambling that are hidden or hidden behind internet offices or anywhere else in "holes" in the province and in Athens and disperse the money, what is expected or what exists, that is left of the Greek citizen and have lost property. This bill will bring this legislative initiative a class, an absolute control over all the lengths and backs of the ground and also electronically, with the system that controls pay and where and who is playing. Sometime we'll see the personal ID on the profits and everything else has a financial transaction with these shops. We have succeeded in reducing the total number of gaming machines, at the same time reducing shops. That increases control. It's so simple, it's common sense. Instead of being scattered thousands of shops across the territory, it would be better to be less in a specific space with specific specifications so that the state and any authority can control them. "OPAP S.A." is prohibited to transfer and grant to third party concessionaires with or without consideration the right to install and exploit all the gaming machines. The adoption and implementation of measures to combat the illicit conduct of gambling and the transfer of players from illegal to legal proceedings. The illegal procedure has a wide range of scope, and that is what we should combat. That's what we do with this bill. It must be done in a credible and controlled way. That's what this bill does. Of course there is, as I said, an effectiveness in supervising and controlling all the competent authorities, whether they are the police or the tax authorities. There must be a responsible game, we must protect minors, we must protect the population groups which must not play gambling, and we are doing so because there is now a control, as I have explained above. Of course, we must align ourselves with the Community framework. From that point on, I heard a lot of counter-problems from the Opposition. We must say here that when the permits of the "OPAP S.A." were granted. - We all remember as a citizen, most of you were in Parliament, perhaps - how they were given, who were concerned and what was thoughtful. I think that when you go to clear up a landscape, get it right, right now, there is no competition, so since there is this oligopoly you have to do your best to draw revenue for the public, to bring order, to carry control, to bring supervision, to protect the population groups that you need to protect, and at the same time, the revenues and costs you have, what you have for the next ten years or eighteen years or as the contract is extended with 'OPAP SA', to put them into the budget and the Minister of Finance, so that we may have a permanent expected revenue that is possibly by increasing the income of each player, the growth of the economy and increasing, this permanent revenue to bring a balance in a budget that may have on the other side a social or other expenditure that we have to make as a state. If we do not organise all these costs, we will have the costs, but we will not have the revenue. What's the big deal? That we must come and I think that we are very close to bringing the e-James bill, which is very important to control it throughout its range in the territory and at the same time to protect the legitimate license holders or agents of the "OPAP S.A." or any other of the illegals. Very briefly, because I have said that we are voting on the principle but also on the amendments, the bill is the important part that we have in our amendments was a very important extension of the time of voluntary disclosure of income which has brought much revenue to the Greek public. We have about 5 billion, if I am not mistaken, of the total income from the covered and confirmed revenues of about 600 million, which we did not have. We've got it. So this helps to the surpluses and any other calculation of revenue and expenditure wants the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to do. As far as the regulations on insurance are concerned, we are clearly in favour of this because there are situations and problems which have come to light and there have been many injustices both with regard to the issue of widowhood and the issue of pensions and as these have to be calculated through the mechanisms. I think there is nothing anyone could disagree with. Even if some do not understand politically, they say 'no' to everything. Some amendments could probably be voted on because they have a very basic social impact. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Marios Georgiadis from the Central Association has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the gaming sector could in itself be a huge source of revenue for the Greek state. And we don't mean to be a vast casino, but to attract to our country tourism aimed at gambling. However, this sector has also been a product of international and non-transparentity in our country and, instead of winning the Greek state, it has lost huge sums in the past. Let me remind you that you, as SYRIZA government, have stacked the debts of the OIE, the horse racing, amounting to EUR 208,3 million, based on the adaptation of Greek legislation to the Directive 2013/50 of the European Parliament. I am presenting in the Minutes an article on this subject. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Gambling is a relevant monopoly, since “OPAP S.A.” even after sale, even after entering the market, holds the vast market share. A characteristic and the current provision in the bill of Article 39(6) which prohibits the transfer or concession to third parties of the right of establishment and exploitation of the games. The game, that is, in our country between the state and the "OPAP S.A.", is a suffocatingly closed market, which leaves room for opacity and unfair practices. Even with "OPAP S.A.", however, you were in the knives, because your Government had initially frozen an investment in the VLTs toy machines and "OPAP S.A." even called for the colossal sum of EUR 1 billion from the State to the European Courts. Fortunately, under pressure from the European Union, but also from common sense, we have overcome this initial obstacle and saved the worst. I present in the minutes a statement from the ‘OPAP S.A.’. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Today, among other things, taxation is extremely beneficial to the Greek State. The participation of the Greek State by 35% in mixed profits is the highest in Europe, if not on a global scale. For example, in Lithuania it stands at 20%, in Romania at 16% in Bulgaria at 20%, while in Great Britain the rate has been set at 15%. In fact, small countries such as Malta live from this activity almost exclusively and have attracted international colosses with political incentives and rewarding benefits at the level of taxation. These small countries, however, have five times the growth rate of our own, and even today, we are trying here with patches and amateurs to create a sensible and functional legislation that will allow investors both jobs and tax revenues and contributions. In general, the bill provides for an increase in the number of VLT-type machines that can be installed in sandy spaces up to fifty per shop. There is also a maximum increase in the number of such machines per company ‘OPAP S.A.’ in 15 per shop. You are claiming that fewer machines will operate in much less parts of the world. So you tell us that there will be a smaller exposure to gambling for users and easier control, without any financial damage being caused to the public. I am tabling a relevant article from those. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Honestly, it is not understandable that you invoke the logic. Public control with a simple software and the internet can be easily done regardless of number of VLTs machines. I mean, I want you to explain to us how you intend to do control. You're going to a local OPAP store, will a local curator go and cut with the eye, see if the machines work properly? In this way, if you did that, it would make sense what you say "less machinery, less work" than a reduction in the number of machines. Also, the humanitarian reason you are invoking to reduce gambling, if anything is hypocritical. If you don't want to be gambling, ladies and gentlemen, you're just forbidden. A little pregnant can't be. The addicted man in gambling doesn't care how many machines there are or where he's going to go to shop. Whatever obstacles you put on him, if he wants to play, he'll figure out the way. So you're slowly caught by the sensations about it. You also claim through your statements, Minister, that with the current bill you are putting a strict surveillance framework in place and that is how you achieve a key blow to illegal gambling. I am tabling a relevant article on your statements. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above article, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] How exactly do you achieve this? We'd like you to tell us. Is this arbitrary conclusion from which it arises? So, because you've adapted some VLTs machine numbers, will the illegal gambling stop? It would really be a reasonable leap, but only for micro-policy it seems appropriate and useful to us. The current gambling legislation is simply, as I have said before, ineffective and incomplete. For example, I would like to mention the laughter of existing legislation on toys on the Internet. Online games are a rapidly growing sector in the world, which is blossoming in all the countries of the Western world, except of course here, Greece. We here today are banning net-capacity online toys - I am not talking about luck - even with an incentive of a product or a gift of a service. According to the applicable law, L.4002/2011 the game of competence, technical or entertainment games, that is, giving the player the economic benefit of any form, for example a financial consideration or a gift, is considered lucky. If anyone is organizing a online chess tournament today, with a prize of a handful, for example, this is considered illegal, because the prize entails some kind of financial benefit, so it is considered illegal and is explicitly forbidden. So right now the Greek state thinks playing chess is the same thing as playing roulette or blackjack. And while all that's been messed up by previous governments, you're coming now and you're excluding the TV from these rules. Even today, television games and competitions are being carried out through a high-charge line, and you continue and allow them. Legislation of two stations, that is. With television we understand, because you want to have them well, that we allow canalarchs to conduct television toys. On the Internet, where we could bring substantial growth, tax revenue and jobs, we ban it by a cloak. On television to date, it is legally accepted that these contracts are peculiar to the advertising of products without being subject to the category of gambling. The committee responsible for their regulation is the National Broadcasting Council and not the Committee on Gambling Surveillance and Control. I don't think there's any more clear proof than that. Keep the TV window for your favourite canals open to continue the grievance through these TV games. Unfortunately, the previous governments have started this, but you do so and you do nothing about it. The biggest issue is that Greece is governed by a rosphetological and interrelated legislation that serves the interest of every government, including yours. What do we propose for them? It's just, understandable and self-evident. Firstly, single gaming capacity legislation for all SMEs, the internet and the natural world. Second, separation of games to games of competence, games of luck and mixed games. Such models of separation exist in all countries and in the Western world's legislation, such as, for example, the United States, from where we could draw specific information and see how they work there. Thus, the chess will no longer be considered like Roulette, and it will not be criminalised to conduct pure-capacity games. Thirdly, the liberalisation of the market so that it does not become another closed profession, with opaque, intertwined rules. The State must regulate and not be strong in the free market. Fourth, lower and uniform rates of taxation for foreign capital. If you do the above simple things, a large part of the budget's tax revenue will be from gambling but also from skill games and tourism. If you follow what you have been doing lately, i.e. taxing and authoritarian policy, only a recession and a ban on the market will you bring and it is understood that you are going to do nothing about illegal gambling. You'll just perpetuate him because taxation is too high. It is your duty to technically deal with things and, if you cannot, ask the experts for help, to show you how you can do it. Do not let your ideas lure us into economic and development extinction, as you have done in the last two years at least. In conclusion, Mr President, I am not going to mention all the amendments at the moment. Our parliamentary representative will also be present. I'm probably referring to them in my dentistry, since I see how many you're going to testify and then. I would just like to make a reference to the amendment we have tabled on the tritec equation with polytecs. We would like to know if you intend to accept it and in this way help the social group in practice. As far as the draft law is concerned, we have reservations and will be put to the vote when it is held. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague, George Amyras, from the river, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is an undeniable fact that illegal gambling existed, there is very probably also in the future. Let us be realistic about this. The fact is that the Greek public is losing revenue from this development of illegal gambling. There are many side effects in Greek society from the absence in this "black" area of illegal gambling. So there is a participation of minors and we need to see this. We also need to see the immediate and pressing need to regulate the scope of gambling as a whole, not only to ensure the evasive revenues of the public, which I mentioned above, but, above all, to protect users, who in illegal gambling play without a limit: without a limit of money, without an age-limit, with irreparable damage and risks to the future of their psychological health and, of course, to protect their financial situation. An organization that has experience in gambling for user help, the independent organization 'Choose Help' - 'Select help' or 'Select Help' - just to say, based in London, has produced a report and says that the first of the three reasons for the direct addiction of players is the ease of access to fruits, slots, in all of them. The other two - focusing only on gambling - are the simplicity and speed of action. So we need to look very seriously and globally at the issue, but we also need to see the other side of the financial cost. We have, in other words, the report by the Committee on Gambling Control and Supervision for 2015, which is truly shocking. Every day in 2014 the Greek police were closed by an illegal club. In 2014, four hundred eighty-eighty violations were recorded. A thousand five hundred thirteen people were arrested and 160,000 euros were seized. During the period 2005-2014 eighteen thousand forty-nine violations were detected, twenty-eighteen thousand ninety-seven people were arrested and some 5,500,000 euros were seized. Only in one day, on December 17, 2016 -- to come to the most recent data -- the authorities made twenty-three interventions and interventions in a mini casino and internet cafe from Kos to Ptolemaida. Only that day - imagine - they had arrested seventy - five people and had seized almost two hundred computers. So we see that illegal gambling is blossoming. We see that a society organized, the organized state spends a lot of money on the control mechanism, police intervention, the judicial system and we are in the same position. The reduction of the fines you saw and the sums seized during the period 2015-2016 - which were reduced - the principle itself places them on capital control. So now let's go see that fruits are being played online in coffee. It's a common secret. By pressing a key, the computer turns from a technical game device to a lucky and vice versa. In the mini casinos, in the well-known fruit shops, in clubs quite protected, in luxurious spaces with security systems we have inside fruitfruits. This is the real dark para-state, in its non-traditional sense. The illegal purchase of this bet is estimated at about EUR 1 billion. The revenues of the Greek State that escaped could be up to EUR 300 million. So how do we fit in the draft law? Although we have said so many times in the previous committees, I would like to say that we believe that it is a positive first move for the disposal and inappropriate play, without terms of such gambling. We shall vote in favour of the principle. For the articles, we will then tell you in my denture about how we will be placed. But I also wanted to say two things about the amendments. We are positive about extending the voluntary disclosure deadline of taxable material. In relation to the amendment brought by Mr Pappas to reduce from 20% to 5% of the excise duty on advertising, I would suggest that such reductions should take place everywhere, not just for television. And the newspapers are having a huge problem of survival. If you reduce taxes respectively to the other means, we will vote in favour. But there must be a level playing field for all instruments. Also in the amendment to the temporary pension submitted electronically, we are positive. The rest I'll tell you in my dentistry. I expect to hear the Minister, Mr Pappas, particularly on the subject of the amendment I have tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u112	Ladies and gentlemen, before I give the floor to the Minister, I will make a statement on the development of the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, we have completed the speeches of the rapporteurs and of the special speakers. On the basis of the Members registered, and given that the parliamentary representatives and the ministers, etc., will speak, we have made a calculation that we still want six and a half to seven hours. Because we're going and tomorrow, we're going to find out that we can close today's sitting around 22:00 and everything we have in the rest of the meeting to go on tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u113	When can we go?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u114	Tomorrow at 10:00. If we go all the time, we'll be there at 3:00.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u115	Can we compact it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u116	How? Sixteen colleagues are registered. I don't think they want to talk. They are both Ministers and Parliamentary Representatives. There's no way we're going earlier than 2:30, 3:00. That is why - I think - we have to agree that sometime at 21.30 p.m. we will stop and go tomorrow for the rest. Do you agree, ladies and gentlemen?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u117	The House therefore agreed. The Minister has the floor, Mr Nikolaos Pappas, to present his amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the past few days there has been a debate that has been very critical to the rescue of the media workers' fund. As you know, the Government has taken a very important initiative, making a strong effort to ensure the definitive salvation of the EDEAP, which depends on thousands of our fellow citizens. The government entered a process of consultation with the institutions, in a negotiation in which it explained what was at stake, and finally managed to convince it. It was a very important success, while some felt that this case was lost, a proposal supported by all the wings of the House. We have brought an amendment which was voted in favour of most of Parliament's parties, and we welcome that. The Ministry of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information participated in the consultation on the rescue of the fund, discussing several times with representatives of employees in the press as well as with media ownership, and undertook to contribute to this process, in all its responsibilities. That is why we are bringing the amendment to reduce advertising tax from 20% to 5%. I would say that this is not a question of easy criticism and we will be explained. The amendment comes after the voting procedure for the EDEAP was completed, which the perspective of the solution was embraced by the whole of the journalist world. It comes after the legislation was ratified by Parliament and by a large majority. Above all - and here there is no room for doubt and second thoughts, there is no room for misinterpretation - it will apply to stations which will now be licensed from the competition of the National Broadcasting Council, and that is why 1 April of next year is being implemented as the date of application. With the latter regulations, which have been passed, after the extensive consultation we had with the National Broadcasting Council, you understand and know that the House has voted that three months after the forthcoming licensing, there will be no pan-Hellenic television stations operating without a licence. What, then, is the great picture from which we should not be disqualified when we have an honest dialogue? That the State will have additional revenues, which will arise first of all from the price for licences, the levy on turnover, established in the context of the rescue of the EDEAP, and the increased employers' contributions, which will result from the increase in employment in the pan-Hellenic television stations, to which now, ladies and gentlemen, some one thousand of our eight fellow citizens are working. At the end of the licence, two thousand eight hundred, i.e. four hundred per channel, will be working on seven channels. What is the central, large equation, which does not take into account the additional burdens incurred in saving the EDPS? That pan-Hellenic stations, pan-Hellenic channels will pay 24.5 million a year for the price of licences and the reduction of advertising tax, according to the report of the General Accounting Office of the State, are 15 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u119	It's 20 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u120	It's 20 million. For 2018, which is the key to the completion of the programme, precisely because it has been in force since 1 April, it is 15 million. It's 20 million after. Of course - I would say that the wings of charitable people here cannot bypass this - there will be increased revenues and from employers' contributions, there will be an increase in employment in a winter industry. I think that the balance is too positive for both the state and the workers. Because we will go into clear words and with the property of the channels, with which we have never chewed our words. We did not hesitate to sign the paper that spoke about charging the advertising tax in 2015 and said that this tax would be reduced only when the licensing process was completed, simply, purely and unmistakable. I want to make three points. If you will allow me, Mr President, I will need two more minutes from the five you have given me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u121	Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u122	Thank you. For the first time, workers in the online media pass on the bright side of the news moon. This is thanks to the establishment of the Online Media Register, which now numbers over a thousand websites, as well as to the decision of the Journalists' Union to include in its procedures and employees on the Internet. It is a decision which has been late and is a decision - and I would like to say it emphatically - which has not been taken by previous administrations of the author associations, although these administrations were prepared to stone it when it attempted to put order on the television scene. Secondly, during the debate and with the property of the channels too many requests have been made on their behalf, including to withdraw the ERT from advertising, to charge the EUR 3 satellite platforms per subscriber, around 36 million a year, attributed to private television stations, to abolish the contribution of 1.5% to cinema, to reduce the minimum number of workers from four hundred to three hundred, to remove all restrictions on the origin of capital, to zero the advertising tax. These, as you can see, could not have been and will not be accepted. Thirdly, the special advertising tax we are debating now can be regarded by many as a heavy and excessive tax. I am the first to say this from this point of view, ladies and gentlemen, that tax burdens are high and it is not good to have arrangements that make it necessary for television stations to enter. When they go in, pressures on the banks start by circumventing banking rules, pressure on the civilian staff for other favors, overcompression of labour costs and, of course, collapse, downsizing the quality of programmes. That's the reality. The desire, therefore, of the state and indeed of this government, which has made enormous efforts towards the gods and demons to regulate this landscape, is to have viable television stations, and in this context we are moving. I will not therefore disagree with the claim that the tax is heavy, but with the very serious note that it was voted in 2010, it was not charged and was never collected by 2015, because he was also postponed every 31 December for the following year and was collected - oh of the miracle! - from 2015 onwards, with the result that the public receive EUR 90 million, which would never have been collected. Very simple things. This money would never have been collected if there were no political determination and the political will to go ahead with this initiative. I think that some regrettable people will now look at developments, because this tax has been used as an unsuccessful, resultant, judging a lever of pressure on television stations to get political support. For us, on the contrary, it is an obligation. So let's go to channels with permits from the PSE, with four hundred jobs, with employers' contributions and a viable fund. Finally, and because the issue has also been raised by the river representative: as with the regulations on the EDEAP, he opens up a question of balancing burdens on television stations, he opens up for all the media, which will be obliged of this new burden which has been set. The government is very well aware of the problems of the press, which - let us be honest - existed before the huge economic crisis. In the next few weeks, then, we will open up a systematic, compact and open dialogue with all interested parties, beyond television stations. We will open this dialogue, because we know that the press area is going through difficulties and we will open it up in an effort to see what other measures can be taken so that the support of the journalists' fund does not stumble in the media's adequate financial difficulties. I want to be clear here. As there is this cost balancing measure for pan-Hellenic stations, there must be corresponding measures to balance costs in pay-TV, radio, newspapers and magazines. There have been corresponding efforts in France. They have also been in other countries of the European Union. We have codified the measures that exist. At the moment we are working on what all these measures could mean, which the international experience is recording in relation to the Greek reality. In the next few days, a systematic and short days, I would say, dialogue with media ownership will begin, to see how we conclude this transition to a landscape that also supports sustainability. Our intervention, ladies and gentlemen, is not budgetaryly neutral. It is an intervention that will benefit the public. As I have explained, the price for licences exceeds, and in the report by the General Accounting Office of the State, the relief resulting from the reduction in income tax. However, it is not politically neutral, because it regulates the landscape with the licensing of television stations, and it contributes to the effort to save the EDEAP, but also ensures a thousand jobs, more than is currently available on the pan-Hellenic channels. I would therefore like to invite you to support the passage of the press into a new phase, characterised by regulation, employment, insurance and fair taxation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u124	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u125	What would you like, Mr. Comrade?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u126	Mr President, I do not want to invoke the Rules of Procedure now. Because the Minister spoke, I would like to take the floor on what he said for two minutes, as I have in the Rules of Procedure. I won't be long.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u127	Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u128	Minister, I don't have time to answer the quotes. Besides, you and Mr. Katrugalos have made a law every and every two months you change it. You have introduced a policy on your work. We will probably answer you if we consider it appropriate tomorrow. We are now going to take this measure. When the Ministry of Labour a few days ago brought the regulation for the EDEAP here, by changing the law of Katrugalos for the 20th time - I think - we told him that putting 2% tax on the turnover is a matter if you can do so. He did. We also told him that you had a Mario-Rombol study on the EDEAP, which tells you that by the measure you're doing, you're not coming out and you'll be back in a while. The Undersecretary next door told you that we have this study, but we don't bring it, we have it, and my point is whether it comes out or not the fund comes out. That's what he called it, that's what he said. At the same time, we have proposed that all the media should avoid redundancies or horizontal cuts, that there should be some measures and that has been refused. He refused it by silence, I do not remember exactly, he said 'Why, no?', however, did not proceed with some equivalent aid. The same night, in order to avoid, of course, the media whistling, you say that for the channels it is the conversion of 20% to 5%. And in our communication, which we did yesterday - Mr Amyras has developed it today and tomorrow, I will say in more words, because I do not have much time - we have told you that these equivalent measures for categories of information, namely media, which are mainly affected by the crisis, and these are mainly newspapers, but also radios and sites, you will have to find the equivalents and in a single regulation to bring them to the House, otherwise Mr Amyras says - as we say - we will not vote in favour, we will say'representers'. You are now saying, and this is a little tempting about the opposition, that you are opening up a dialogue, and you will bring forth the rest. What prevented you, after you rushed to do this 5% tax reduction, from going to other weights? They have no such tax and the rest of the media to make a horizontal reduction, you have to go to VAT, you have to go somewhere else, to some other weight. What prevents you from making a single arrangement now? What do you want? Shall we say yes and leave all the issues in the future dialogue?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u129	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u130	Mr President, in 15 seconds I shall conclude. As for the balance sheet you are doing, the 20 million that you will lose from this measure, with what you will receive from the licence, with the past, you cannot trust you in that. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Christos Katsotis, has asked for the floor. Mr Kattotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Mr President. I shall begin with the position of the Minister of the Media, who has justified the amendment to reduce from 20% to 5% as a result of the agreement reached on the ERCEA, which has been mentioned for a long time. The JRC took up its position on this amendment that you brought here and disagreed, of course. And with the previous regime, we disagreed, with what was in place for journalists, for the EDEAP, but we disagreed with what you are now shaping. We have referred to this amendment in the previous law that passed. We have not voted, because the core of the regulation is precisely the capitalisation system, it is precisely the predetermined contributions and not the benefits. It is because there is no guarantee of the state of insurance for journalists' expectations, as this is, of course, the core of the insurance system passed by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, and we will be referring here below to the amendments tabled by the Government, on temporary pensions and widow's pensions. So, Minister, you cannot justify an amendment here as a result of such an agreement. In other words, it is not a question of introducing an employer's contribution, as you say. You are giving it back with this amendment that you are bringing today. So let's see what criteria the JRC determines its attitude to the draft law. Based on what he's coming to serve. With this criterion we will be placed in the amendments to the draft law, in which our rapporteur, Sakis Vardalis, has sufficiently developed our positions. The JRC's position on gambling is well known. We are expressing our universal opposition to any form of gambling. The government with this bill makes the referee into the conflicting interests of investors in gambling. It seeks deals and a distribution of the pie. It facilitates easy access, attracting new clients who want, gambling addiction. Governments, formerly and now, support such activities and have a great responsibility. We are monitoring the competition of the gambling business groups, monitoring the Government's choices, which continues to meet their demands and allegedly invokes measures to protect the public interest. We have been demanding for today in this debate the main, which is to meet the demands of workers, to maintain jobs with full employment and insurance rights. The government's amendment to transfer Parnitha's casino actually contains no guarantee of almost a thousand workers. It is not about the specific workers who are currently in existence, but about the existing jobs, that is, the number of nine hundred ninety, a thousand, those who are going to be. There is absolutely no reference in the working relationships, in the rights that these workers have, as provided for by the operational collective labour agreement, which are in no way guaranteed, as well as in what working relationships they will continue to work. You have not taken into account the concern expressed by workers in terms of pay and work. We shall submit to the Minutes and agreement made by the workers themselves with the operation, but which has not been taken into account by the government at all. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Katsotis, presents for the minutes this practical agreement, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Already, through this amendment, a portion of the workers, such as that part of the terminal, remain on the substance of the air, since, yes, a five-year commitment is made by the company to maintain the terminal, but nothing specific is said about workers, on what terms will they be working this five-year period or what will be done with them after this period of time. The three hundred new jobs provided for in the amendment will be carried out, as noted in the relevant article, since the volume of work and economic sizes, i.e. the profitability of the company, permits it. We are not talking, of course, about the labour regime with which they will work. You have given everything to the employer, the possibility of hiring with flexible forms of work and crazed rights, to overthrow acquired rights of already workers, who experience the work jungle with flexible working relationships, with contractors, with employee rental, part time, one day contracts. BSE, the SETE and the other representatives of business groups, according to their latest meetings, require not only the permanentisation of overturns but also the introduction of other flexible forms of work, such as zero-time contracts and those of the employer to increase the exploitation of workers. In addition, the government introduced the settlement of doctors' working time in public health structures for up to sixty hours per week, covering large gaps by intensifying work, with negative consequences for the health of doctors and the quality of health services. In this and in a worse direction, the situation with the workers will also move if they do not conflict with their unity with the fight against their conquests and the claim of their losses. In support of what we claim, we recall that the privatisation in 2003 created some positions on the basis of the concession agreement at the Parnitha casino at the time. However, these were with reduced rights in relation to old - less offshore, lower basic wages and tips. The company has entered into a contract with a cleaning plant since 2009 and has not been extended to the casino premises alone to replace workers with workshops. Since 2011, the company has been applying rotational work. Since 2012, in view of the fact that OPCW machines will be licensed, the company has attacked workers' rights, exploiting all the legislative framework from the previous governments, which you, of course, have maintained and constantly enriched. Of course OPAP did the same. At the same time, with the tolerance of all governments, no contractual obligation has been fulfilled since the privatisation of 2003. They didn't care about a safe building after the 1999 earthquake, which is well known. It is foreseen in the bill investment of 100-150m euros in the new area. These, if they are spent, will soon be taken back from the workers, their squeeze, and from the pillaging of customers. We stress that whatever rights they have left are because the casino workers themselves have fought hard struggles against the anti-terror choices of governments and owners. This is the way to go. We will not vote for this amendment, and we call for the effective safeguarding of workers with full rights. As far as the other amendments, temporary pensions and widow's pensions are concerned, Mr.4387/2016, who has prevailed as the Katrugalos law, does not get any improvements. The workers, the pension movement demand that it be overturned and they claim exclusively social security system with the characteristics given by the hard struggles of the working class, which were behind the possibilities, claim that pensions should be restored, as should the thirteenth and fourteenth pensions, which have been paid with their sweat and blood for many years by the insured. The attack on the insurance goes on. The struggle must become a mass, universal one, because the conversion of insurance from social responsibility into individual one is the main direction of the European Union and in this direction the PASOK and New Democracy governments have legislated and the SYRIZA - ANEL Government continues, as we described it. Thus, the Government moves to the main core of these upturns, which is the introduction of the predefined contributions and not benefits - as I said in the amendment to the EESC - the abolition of the State's guarantee for pensions, with the guarantee limited to the so-called national pension of EUR 345 to EUR 384, and the exemption of employers from insurance on the grounds of the separation of so-called labour costs into wage and non-wage. The delay in the award of definitive pensions is the result of these adjustments to the law adopted by the Government with the known tragic consequences for the slaughter of pensions and benefits in general and the abolition of death and disability pensions. The situation with the award of the subsidiary and the one-off is even more tragic at the time when the ban on the participation and guarantee of the State is envisaged. The temporary pension up to now was 50% of the average last year's wage. Now you make it 80% of the final pension, as provided for by Law No.4387, there will be a pension wage from all the insurance lives of the insured person, which is very low than was the case before. In some cases 80% adopted will be less than 50%. Communications, however, sounds much better at 80% than at 50%. But the question arises: Since you can calculate the definitive pension within two months, why do you give 80% of this amount and not give the full amount of the final pension? That's what you say. You claim that in two months you will be able to calculate the definitive pension. In short, you admit that, apart from the large sums, you are retaining the planned cut-off amounts of pensions as indirect borrowing. You do not invoke a lack of staff, because you claim that you can count 80% of the definitive in two months on existing workers, whom you voluntarily have to work on weekends with the promise of a licence. Those who do not submit an electronic application shall not be excluded. That is unacceptable. Responsible statement of law 1599 which cannot be e-mail. Why can't they apply for a temporary pension not electronically, in the guise, do they not have the option? In the case of successive insurance, attestations are also requested from the other body, which is found neither to be electronic. For lower death pensions we demand the immediate abolition of Article 12 of L.4387/2016 and the reintroduction of the rules applicable to death pensions. Only the abolition of this law can restore this unfair choice that you have made for death pensions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It is unacceptable to maintain age limits established for widow’s pensions, as is the lower limits, which are well below those applied before Law No4387/2016. That is why we call for it to be reinstated to 70% of the pension received or intended for death without any interruption then for the widow or widow. So is pension if the beneficiary is only a child. The 70% rate is increased if there are more than one beneficiary. The family is deceased to be entitled to a pension which the deceased receives or is to receive irrespective of his insurance years. A pension must be entitled to incapacity before the twenty-fourth year of age, in which case the incapacity must occur before or after the death of the parent. A child who will be incapable after twenty-four shall also be entitled to a pension. We call for a pension threshold to be EUR 486 as for all pensioners. The surviving husband constantly receives the pension of the deceased regardless of age. In the case of entitlements to minors as an adult age, be considered as 31 December of the year preceding the eighteenth and not the previous day of birth for any insurance right or right of the child or its parents, as is applicable to the public. The provision you make for orphans from both parents is obviously only mentioned when one parent’s pension is due to take the EUR 384. When both parents are entitled to a pension, why don't you give it to her? Give the pension, i.e. the EUR 384 for both parents. We say that the pension requirement will be restored because of death until May 12, 2016, with a thousand five hundred days of work, of which three hundred in five years prior to the death of the insured person. With this, we will not vote on the two amendments because they do not address the problem. They simply give the lowest, the EUR 360 and the age limits remain. As far as temporary pensions are concerned, since you can in two months know what final pension is, and not the provisional pension.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, twenty-three students and students and three school attendants from the 3rd Municipal School of Pylea Thessaloniki. The House welcomes you guys. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Eleni Alonitou has the floor now from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u134	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with today's bill: "Confidence on the purchase of toys and other provisions" the issue of gambling and the way in which the state is approaching the issue is being addressed is on the table. First of all, we have to find that the matter exists either with the state or not. Gambling and betting contain five dangers by nature. First, gambling addiction, in which some people are more prone than others. This addiction in his extreme events can be destructive to the addict. Secondly, deceiving those who bet on fraudulent gambling organizers. Thirdly, the creation of an area for the development of organised crime, which, starting from gambling, can be extended elsewhere. Fourthly, the creation of tax-free revenues and, fifthly, when the object of betting is sports organisations, the alteration of the outcome of sports games. Internationally, there have been three approaches to gambling: the total ban, absolute liberalisation and regulation under state control. The total ban works as a subsidy for illegal gambling, but without it being abolished. Absolute liberation exacerbates the problem of addiction. So the state-controlled regulation has been judged to be the most effective approach. The current bill, therefore, "Structuring arrangements for the purchase of games and other provisions", which moves to the logic of the state-controlled gambling arrangement, amends provisions of Law 4002/2011 concerning the licensing of toys by the PPP. These amendments aim to increase the level of control exercised by the State in the operation of the toy industry by limiting and the number of toys by thirty-five thousand to twenty-five thousand and the number of shops operated by them. We achieve the latter by increasing the number of players that can operate in each shop, so that the number of shops is lower and thus easier to control. In other words, a smaller market is being created in order to have better supervision. In order to compensate for the reduction in the income of the OPCW by limiting the number of gaming industries, the period of authorisation is extended from 10 years to eighteen. Ladies and gentlemen, at the moment, it is estimated that there are tens of thousands of illegal gaming companies in the country, which operate undeclared, duty-free, operating without any control on whether the game is set up or what percentage of the receipts are yielding profits to players and who, of course, operate without any care to avoid the addiction of players. In these machines, hundreds of millions of euros are played, from which the state receives nothing. Now, in the position of these illegal machines, machinery will be introduced, technically, fiscally and functionally, with an emphasis on functional and fiscal honesty and to avoid the addiction of players. It seeks these controlled and guaranteed machines to absorb the existing demand, which is currently being channelled into the illegal bet, so that the players too can protect the state's revenues. In times of internet and online betting we are not allowed to leave this area with a privileged area of illegality and we will not leave it. We want to channel the existing demand for gambling to the legitimate, controlled and taxed activities of the OPCW, but without, on the way, provoking an increase in the overall domestic demand for gambling betting. It is, however, a impression that we are invoking the opposition because we are making it easier to make an investment. I fear that you have believed your stories that the government is contrary to investment and you are surprised when the facts do not confirm you. Finally, I would like to refer even to the provisions of the legislation on widow's pensions. This is a very sensitive issue, since the recent changes in pension scheme legislation have been found to be unfair to widows and, in particular, to widow mothers, who have devoted a life to raising children, are at risk of being unretired if their husband dies outside certain age limits. This issue also has demographic implications, since it is like the state saying to mothers that their social offer does not matter. Today's bill deals with this serious issue, but only partly deals with it, placing a threshold on the pensions due to the husband's death. The problem with age limits, however, remains, Minister, and should be dealt with in the immediate future, so that at least mothers are not punished if they have not worked in their lives, but have stayed at home by raising children. With this remark, I believe that the bill is generally satisfactory and I am voting in favour of it in principle and on the articles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Ilias Panayotaros, Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, has the floor for twelve minutes, and the Minister will then speak. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Mr President. Amidst the ongoing mass targeting of the Greek people, despite the attempt to counteract the conflict - in addition, all the figures and figures show the tragicity of the situations - you are bringing a bill, which is rather afflicting the overwhelming majority of the Greek people. And the opposite of poorness is what? The fruits, which, of course, five above, five down, do not think are improving the economic situation of Greek citizens at all. Perhaps some years ago, in the years of fictitious prosperity, in which many played gambling - illegal, legal, fruitfruits and everything else - it was also worth putting a class. The moment the entire Greek society is falling apart and most of the people have no food to eat, it's probably kind of ironic on your part. And really, you who have failed even in the lottery of evidence, as you were saying, that you have not managed to make a single lottery for the consistent, as you say, taxpayers, to get the 1000 euro taxpayers - you have failed to do so - do you think you will be able to put order on such a serious issue as gambling, can you try to eliminate illegal gambling and settle legal gambling? The places that you used to go and the places you used to sell, as you were saying, the OPAP - now it's all good - that apart from the place you had for casinos. And all of a sudden, since you had voted to make a second casino within Attica, you are right now bringing it in, but you are bringing this half, and you are bringing an amendment to the relocation of Parnitha's casino. You're giving them that right. Yes, they must have it, because, if there has to be a casino, it is that of Parnitha and if you were consistent in your reasons, you wouldn't vote for the utilization, as you say, of the Greek, which is anything but usage, but you would upgrade not only Parnitha, but this wonderful hotel, which has been affected by the earthquake and remains at the moment on the substance of a forappy, a ruin. You would surely have had high levels of tourists from abroad, who would spend their money at the "Mon Parnes" Hotel, if it were working and at the casino, because it is not a question of getting what is left to Greek citizens, most of whom are now living or below the limit or the poverty line, and are simply struggling to take them for a walk. I would like to make one mention, although it is not at all part of this bill, of what is happening in another casino in the Loutraki casino. We see the company's manners in order to get rid of the casino right now, because it's injurious, and to keep the hotel going very well. As far as we know - we have also asked and are waiting for the answer - when this contract was concluded, he said that there should be a five-star hotel, at the same time operating a casino. Successful owners first built a casino, bleeding the citizens not only of Corinthia Prefecture, but also of the neighbouring counties and when they had a coarse money as revenue, they also decided to build the hotel. What Koskotas had done, who gave him the Bank of Crete and paid for it with the bank's money. And now that times are difficult and it doesn't work out for the casino - and that should worry you in general, because you're showing a great deal of interest for the second casino in Attica - they want to get rid of the injurious casino and keep the hotel. Parnitha's casino is included in an amendment, but you do not solve all the problems. As we said before, we agree to secure the employment rights of all those who have been working there for many years and not to sacrifice them to the young - within many introductorys - 'investments' that you are going to bring to the Greek when they are made. I would like to make a reference to the amendments. In Amendment No 1341 and in Amendment No 213 on the reduction of the rate of excise duty on advertising, we are against. Paragraph 12 of Article 5 of L.3845/2010 is hereby amended. While the 2010 Act imposed on advertisers or advertisers a tax rate of 20%, the amendment reduces the rate to 5%. The regulation concerns advertising in media which has recently been licensed by the National Broadcasting Council. In other words, it concerns the new channels and therefore the service of specific interests. The assessment resulting from the report of the General Accounting Office of the State is important. The reduction in the State budget's revenues from the application of this provision will amount to EUR 20 million. That is why we are voting against this amendment. And very nicely to reduce the tax rate to 5%! Truly, why don't you do it to other categories of professions, so as to relieve many free professionals in various sectors, who constantly see the factors growing? For the amendment with a general number 1330 and a special number 212 we say'residents'. The coup d'état is trying to balance the tragic inequalities and, at the same time, to remove the injustices caused by the application of the Katrugalos law, which undoubtedly contributed decisively to further poverty in the middle class. You also admitted that this is your plan, to pooren all the Greeks, so that after the benefits, piles and tails you can make them feel and obligated to give them a sandwich, a dish of food, after you have taken everything from them. This amendment is in the mood to correct the wrong texts. On substance, it legislates the introduction of the amount of EUR 384 in pensions with a 20-year insurance threshold. This amendment deals solely with applications submitted electronically and primarily with the granting of a provisional pension. What we support is that, with the EUR 384 crumbs you give to the beneficiaries, you are simply turning the pill into a so-called social policy. You are not saying, however, that even these greedy increases are in agreement with your troika colleagues and on the substance of them are being adopted with their permission. Moreover, you are maintaining the bureaucratic regime which is affecting citizens, as well as certain conditions for the time-limits as referred to in paragraph 3 of the proposed provision, not to say here, what you said before 2015, for a minimum pension to be paid to EUR 751, etc., etc., etc., and so on. With regard to Amendment No 1329 and special number 211, we are thinking of the popular expression 'to burn you, Giannis, to grind you with oil'. The fact is that with L.4387/2016, many social groups and especially the weakest were faced with a drastic reduction in their earnings. In the case of widow's pensions, the legislation of the above law has been dissatisfied. This sets the pension threshold at EUR 360 for a 15-year insurance and step by step the threshold is set at EUR 384 for twenty-year insurance years or more. The intention is to regulate the relevant provisions more favourably, but it is acknowledged that these increased amounts are not sufficient to improve the standard of living of the beneficiaries as a minimum. The words 'between the two bad as not the best' apply to this amendment. We disagree with such amendments, policies - rather - practices and we will say'residents' in this particular amendment, as I said before. Amendment No 1327/209 is an amendment to the proposal for a regulation on the procedure and the establishment of an extension for the voluntary disclosure of the taxable material for a further period. We agree with that. Anything that is to the benefit of taxpayers is positive, although other things should be done. However, we will say 'yes'. Amendment No 1328/210 refers to the provisions on ‘Greek Parnitha S.A. Casino’. The transfer of the casino from Parnitha to another area in Attica, as we said, has not yet been finalised. We note, however, from the previous provisions, that the Government is attempting to use the investment plans of the shareholders of the EKRD SA as well as to exploit the real estate it holds due to the relocation for unknown reasons. A positive provision for safeguarding the labour rights of officials in EKRD S.A. Of course, there is still insecurity and reflection, since at every transitional stage any investment projects that are directly affected are workers. Impressively, the transfer of real estate from the ETAD S.A. to the ETAD S.A. is a cult for the issuance of the relevant licence. Please explain to us what is the purpose of this arrangement. Furthermore, we consider it prerequisite to suggest possible casino relocation sites, as so far there is a certain design and specific intentions, see Greek case. We shall vote 'yes'. We will document this tomorrow, which we will also take our final decision on this amendment, under the condition that labour rights are guaranteed. In any case, Mr President, we reiterate that in these very difficult times that we continue and experience as a Greek people, talking about fruits and casinos in every neighborhood, it was certainly not in our thoughts or - we are sure - in the thought of all Greeks that it has to do with growth in any way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Mr. Panayotare. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr President. I have some legislative improvements to testify. Most are completely procedural. It is about the fact that pensions have also entered, so they have to go forward and then the numbering has changed. The two basics are the further extension to voluntary disclosure, the so-called 'VDI' and another to deal with Parnitha's casino, which is increasing the amount that the company has to give for five years, from EUR 1 million a year to EUR 1.5 million, for reasons I will explain in my basic speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u139	Minister, tonight will be your main speech?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u140	Now, now. Of course, if I take the floor tomorrow, to answer some questions that have not been answered, we can see. Ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about gambling, we have tax issues - what we are taxing because and how - and how - issues relating to addiction and issues relating to market regulation. These are the three basics. Allow me to say something about all three, starting with taxation, namely how we need to tax it and how we get these revenues. But let me give you a little parenthesis about the 'Paradise Papers'. There has been a lot of discussion in the last few days about tax evasion and money laundering. In my opinion, all this is important and we need to see the illegality and accountable to those who have committed illegality. But that's not the basic thing. The main thing that comes out of the "Paradise Papers", is that forty, forty years after we entered the period of neoliberalism, the rich, the elites built a legal system in which the rich could be exempted and not form part of the taxable income. When Mr Mitsotakis blames me and Mr Juliarakis for saying that we cynically confessed that we broke the middle layers - we never said that we had a fight but that we had a hard time and we did not say that we did so deliberately, we did it because we had other priorities - here there is a cynicism issue yet it is not the illegal one. It is not because forty, forty years after the Migration you did nothing about tax evasion and we had to deal with it, but it is the subject of the 'Paradise Papers'. So you want to have a debate in the House on taxation? But you must come ready to answer because for thirty years you have done nothing about these "Heavens". Why haven't you raised this for thirty years? What was your position, if you burn for the middle classes, when you had to face this scandal, not the criminal but moral, that we can exclude the rich in a legal way? In fact, I do not exclude the centre-left, because on Clinton, Schröder and Blair this trend has been established and this framework has been lawfully established, so that the taxable income can be closed down. One of the problems of social democracy is that which you have to deal with, if you are to take part in a social democracy, which is facing the inequality of the middle classes, which is not compatible with this framework that has been built over the last thirty years. So, after that reference, I shall refer to the 'VLTs' tax. Look, in economic theory, when we talk about taxes, the beginning of almost all economists - an economist called it Pigkos, and he was the most famous economist in Cambridge in the Messopolitan War - is, in fact, that the state should tax badly - I will explain what I mean by 'bad' - and subsidise well. What did he mean by the words 'bads'? He meant all these activities, which have negative externalities. What does it mean to have negative externality? It means you're making things bad for society you don't pay for. The most classic example is infection. A business that pollutes the environment must have, as Pigkos says, more tax. The subsidy is in these activities that create positive externalities. It therefore creates positive externalities for the training of workers. Why? Because it is not only about the worker himself or the worker but about and makes the productivity of the whole economy. So that should be subsidised. So we all agree that gambling has many bad consequences for the economy. It's completely in the mind of Pigus. We come and tax something that is addictive, which creates social problems to limit it - because we tax it - and also have income from evil. Then you can subsidise well, as I have explained, with the place Pigkos has. For addiction must be done in Greek society, as I think in all Western societies, a very serious debate. It cannot be done in the way that we have done so, not here in Parliament, in general in our society throughout Europe. We know there are many substances that create addiction. It's drugs, cigarettes, alcohol, toys, gambling. So we need to see, as a society, what we need to ban them, what we need to limit them and what we need to be more flexible. But the idea that the JRC has that you can simply ban gambling, has no historical support anywhere in the Soviet Union, even as there was no ban on alcohol in America in the Middle War. As you can see, alcoholism has increased. We have to deal with this. But you can't because you don't like something, just do it. This is not how you create a serious debate in society about various addictions and how you deal with them. You're doing this illegally and you're creating more problems. The logical consequence of what you say is to ban alcohol. Where does it appear that the social consequences of gambling are worse than alcohol? That's not what the studies say. Alcohol has more negative effects than gambling. I do not know what your programme will be in the next elections, but if you put a ban on alcohol, we will certainly get many votes from you. I don't recommend it to you. So let's have a serious conversation about addiction and see how we deal with them as a package. Now let's go to regulation. One issue was raised by both the PASOK representative and others, is the monopoly. I have to tell you that in gambling as in other games, competition is not always in the game. It's between toys or between toys. Of the things that have always made me look left, it's why the NBA, basketball in America, or the NFL, American football, are so socialist. It seems to me almost a socialist principle that the group that is late chooses from the colleges first to strengthen. It seems socialist enough that there's a roof on what he can pay for wages. That forces you or you get a superstar and you give a lot of money and have some others, because you can't get over the restriction or have a lot of good ones. Why is this in the NBA? Because at NBA the competition is among the games. The NBA actually competes with hockey, football, baseball. It's not competition inside. This applies not only to sports games but to gambling. What you say is that here we create a monopoly, it applies within the game, but it does not apply to games. That is why, as I have said, we have promised and I hope that tomorrow we will have the casino bill in the consultation. I have also promised that when we vote on the casino bill in general, there will be the online toy bill, the internet bet and the internet games in consultation. Let's go to other regulation issues. We say that there are fewer machines and there will be fewer shops and that the question arises again from Mrs Kefalidou, but also from others, 'and why is it that this should be the extension of the contract for eight years?' I have to tell you it's much more complicated than the math you presented to us. It's not only three variables when you make this extension. It's a lot of other variables like national income. So it's complicated. Anyway, we had a finding that said between eight and fourteen, we chose eight, and you seem to be supporting the previous situation. But this fact has not even been seen by you. The right thing is, of course, we haven't even seen it. The previous finding, which said about how long the contract is, you haven't seen it either. So not to say he didn't say it was arbitrary. It was based on a study that you may judge and tell us your opinion. As for Mr Georgiodda, who tells us that there must be the President-in-Office's decree, I must first tell you that I have explained to you in committee how the establishment plan will be done and then there will be the regulation to go to the Council of State. But when he goes to the Council of State, the judges will not deal with the regulation. It does not, in other words, affect the decision of the Committee on Gaming, if you can play this game, for example, or if the restriction is for twenty-four hours, for ten days or something else. It affects the way in which the Committee on the Rules of Procedure is making the regulations. Besides, casinos have been operating since 1950, without that. As you can see, I am in a difficult position to discuss, because I really have to criticise how the Committee on Games has done its job. Again, this is where we have to decide on a balance. If we do the regulatory framework very strict, then as you can see, it will, in fact, be the position of the JRC that it will be banned and there will only be illegal and the JRC will say that there is no gambling and we will all be happy...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u141	The JRC doesn't say that. But it says and you've been told in committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u142	We'll make the police in every neighborhood, and there won't be any illegal gambling. On the other hand, if we do so very lightly, that is, if it is very favourable, then as you can see whether it is illegal or legal, we do not face the social consequences that we want to face, nor can we put any more measures, which will then come after the debate that has taken place in the committee with social actors, who said that we need to do more training to deal with it. So I say to you that, in our view, this regulation of the committee is the gold incision, that is, neither too strict nor too light. But it is not true that there is no restriction. There are restrictions that are larger than Mr Giannakopoulos's committee and there are restrictions that are the same. For example, in this regulation there is a mandatory daily loss limit. So you decide to say that here today I want to lose up to 100 euros. It wasn't compulsory for Mr. Giannakopoulos. There was a chance you could do it. Now there's the "day stop" that's inside the law. You press a button and you say 'end for today'. That's not what it was either. Mr Georgioda, you say that you see no regulation, no regulation that the hours spent in shops are, in fact, the same as Mr Giannakopoulos's regulation. However, it is for 15 days to be twenty-four days. So they're comparable sizes. I do not know if you have a study that says that the restrictions that exist in this regulation are more literate than they exist in Britain, Sweden and Italy. I'm not convinced of that at all. So we need to be a little careful. It is not our regulation, it is an independent authority, and obviously if we want to tax gambling, because in the sense of Pigus it is something that creates bad externalities, and if we do not think it is possible to ban it, then it seems to me that we have a good average solution for how we deal with it. As regards the amendment to Parnitha, it also regulates economic and spatial issues. Our rapporteur has explained what this new investment is pushing for. Economics are what the company has to pay for five years in Parnitha. To respond to various Members who said that this is unfair to the Municipality of Acharnon, I will say that this is why we have increased it, with the legislative improvement I have told you, from EUR 1 million every year for five years to EUR 1.5 million every year for five years. I think that's what this is all about. For the workers and the contracts, I raise my hands for what you have said. There's a contract that covers the workers and even says about those who don't work on the terminal, where they're going to work. What exactly are you asking for? Intervening in this contract? But the contract exists between the company and the workers. We are not coming here to legislate. I'm not saying I get the praises or that I did something good to tell me good. I don't expect that anyway. But, as you say, with the battle that the workers have fought, this contract has been created. This contract exists. I don't understand why there's a problem we have to deal with in this law. So I think it is a bill that is balanced, a bill that tries to regulate the VLTs. It is a bill that will bring great revenue for the State in 2018 and even more in 2019 and 2020. It helps. I think it will create the conditions to reduce illegal gambling. It is not obvious that we have the perfect solution. The Committee on Games has every right to monitor its regulations and to make improved proposals. Its proposals are not written in the stone. Other bills are coming that will create the framework for all casinos. Here comes the bill that will regulate the internet bet. I think there will be competition - as I said - between games and not within every game. It is therefore a bill that all sides of Parliament can support without being too anxious. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, eight students and students and two teachers from the Esperanos High School of Acharnon. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy Mr Nikolaos Dendias has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u144	Mr President, thank you. I have asked for the floor before, as usual, that it is right for me to place myself on the speech of the appropriate rapporteur, the Finance Minister's Legislative Legislation. In the time that the Minister was speaking, however, we were informed that the Prime Minister of the country is sending a letter on television to the Greek people and, indeed, on a question relating to financial benefits, that is to say, an issue on which the Minister, Mr Tsakalots, is in fact responsible. Mr President, first of all I have to say that this in my ears is unprecedented. It is unprecedented, and it refers to other kinds of civilizations. The country's dominance is the Presiding Parliamentary Republic. So, convening Parliament, and indeed on a matter of responsibility for this ministry, the Prime Minister's making an order on economic issues, ignoring it, is obviously not ignored by the relevant Minister of Finance, but is not empowered to tell us what the Prime Minister is saying outside the Chamber - and we do not know what it is about, but to put up for casinos or for Parnitha or for anything else. Mr President, I am not going to speak. I will expect to know what the Prime Minister of the country said and to be placed tomorrow. I would like to say, however, to the Minister of Finance - in fact, to the government by this - who is here, and I am sure that neither he is happy nor I envy his position at the moment, that the Prime Minister is emptied of the national Parliament as a whole and informing the Greek people directly, without Parliament knowing anything, even ignoring the meeting, leads us to another logic of other times, of the direct relationship between the ruler and the people. These are not things within the framework of the European acquis and the European concept of democracy. It's wrong. It is a serious mistake, and I expect the Minister of Finance tomorrow to explain to the national Parliament what forced the Prime Minister of the country to place himself at 21.00 hours, at the time Parliament met, without even informing Parliament of what this is about - I say again - the Minister who was his Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr. Dendia.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u146	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u147	Would you like to make an explanation, Minister? Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u148	Mr President, I think Mr Denktash has a slight tendency to exaggerate. I won't say it otherwise. The dividend announced by the Prime Minister is not just a matter of the Ministry of Finance. You will see, when you study it, that it also has issues for pensions, it has issues that relate to the competence of the Ministry of Energy. You will see that there are other issues. It is therefore a supremely ministerial thing, for which there will be an amendment, and we will have time to discuss it. We don't want to surprise you. We know that you are too mediocre and you will want to read all the details. But from there until we say that we're changing the city because the Prime Minister made a announcement as we discuss the gaming bill, maybe I was very humble and maybe it's a little bit more than just a little bit too little to be exaggerated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u149	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u150	Do you now want to make a comment on this matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u151	I want to make one comment. The toughest measures have come in this House and have been proposed by a Minister of Finance, with a prologue of neoliberalism, socialism, the left, the right and other unrelated issues with the substance of the measures it imposes. And condemning austerity, like austerity is a measure. Austerity is a situation resulting from measures. We have aalum, too, that I don't know if it's a civil problem. I know that it is a gamble politician against both the economy and the Greek people. It's at the expense of the Greek people because you've governed the place for three years. "Destroy your house, give you a tent to sit." That's what you are. In any case, Mr President, tomorrow on what has been said, on the Minister's recommendation, on all the political issues, rather than the amendments or the legislative improvements, as you have done to present your criticism, we will make an overall position. It is one thing, however, given that, Minister. Don't have any doubts. These are words that are exchanged. One thing is the truth. You'll find her in the canopy!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u152	Mr Spyridon-Adonis Georgiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u153	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, you will allow me to ask a question on a purely your point of order from the Prime Minister, from which I have heard a piece coming here. The Prime Minister said, ladies and gentlemen, that this dividend is being distributed due to the over-performance of the Greek economy. That was, Minister, the exact phrase: 'Due to the over-performance of the Greek economy'! When you as Minister of Finance introduced last year the budget for 2017 predicted 2.7% growth. Then, in the middle of time, you revised to 1.8%. Now, do your new forecasts get it to 1.7%? Others say about 1.6%? Some people talk about 1.5 percent? However, in any event, it will be less than initially foreseen. We have to agree on that. Mr. Tsipras is a real magician. Only a magician can come out and say to the Greek people "we were over-performing", when he has fallen out of at least 1% of the budget he has voted in Parliament. How can you, at the same time, be 1% down and that's a little over-performance at the same time? Such a liar has never been born on the planet before! There's no man. He's out of every sense. I would, however, very much like you, who are not such - and I believe you - to explain to us how, at the same time, you have fallen out of your prediction and at the same time being over-performance? How are both of them? Let me see those terrible finances you've learned in England. Mr. Drizza, I'm coming to you now. Mr Dendias asked: 'But why does Mr Tsipras suddenly come and make this statement of the dividend today at 21.00 p.m.'? It's obvious who's in charge. Mr. Loverdos says. This little piece of paper you deposited was the fault of it, Mr. Loverdo. I shall refer to you, Mr Dritsa, for the following two reasons. Firstly, because - without any sign of irony - I consider you to be extremely honest. I don't think all men are honest, nor those who are in here. You're one of the honest men. Secondly, because you once had a lot to do with defense. Some people said you'd also become a Minister of National Defence. I guess it was Kammenos who took your chair. That's what happens in politics. Did you see that paper that Mr. Loverdos submitted? You were on a show the other day, defending Kammenos and saying that everything was done well and he was a representative of Saudi Arabia and that. So I'm reading you, because you might not have seen it. If that's not for a special court, I don't know what's in this House. But you will also vote for the special court for Kammenos. You can't vote for it. In paragraph 7, he says: "With the IG5" - they inform the Minister before signing - "the Greek Embassy in Riyadh has told us that Saudi soldiers have declared their full ignorance of the activity of Mr Papadopoulos and expressed the desire for talks of gonerment to goenderment".
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u154	Is Saudi soldiers the government? What do you think? You're reading lies?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u155	When the Greek embassy of Riyadh tells you what, ma'am? Do you know what "Greek embassy of Riyadh" will say? He will say that the officials of the Saudi army went to the embassy, in other words, he, representing the Hellenic Republic, told him that "we do not know any Papadopoulos" and then the officers who sign the agreement - Mr Manda, do not smile at all - state in detail how Mr Kammenos ordered them to proceed with the signing of the agreement. Although there is this briefing, he had Mr. Kyriakidis go with a military aircraft in Thessaloniki to sign the agreement at the airport. I beg your pardon, these if we see them in a movie, say: 'These are not done'. In a movie and we don't believe it, not having happened in our homeland in truth and for the sake of the chair, Mr. Dritsa, and the rest of you smile! Because if this had been done by a previous government minister, you would rightly be here first and yelling. But the chair is sweet. For me, good for you! You're offending the Left an hour ago. That's good. Greece will find it in front of it as a positive one. A left man will never dare, because of you, to rise to speak again of morality, honesty and integrity in the future. It's the only good thing you give home. Of course, because I see Mr Nikolaopoulos, who often calls - and there in the Committee on Health when you call me, I will come and explain to you about the CEDEFOP, why you do not understand that - what, Mr Nicolopoulos, do you say about all this here? You who are chasing the scandals as Hercules Poirot, I've never heard you say anything here. This is where the soldiers are signinating and informing the hierarchy, the Minister, that he does not represent Saudi Arabia, and he orders that the agreement be signed at the airport of Thessaloniki, do not lose the cellar, and so far we have not taken a single euro! What's Nicolopoulos doing, the cleansing open preacher? So we can get to know each other slowly here. Now let's go a little bit to the bill. Minister, things with the bill are very simple. I shall say a few words, Mr President. Things with the bill are very simple. You have explained here why this agreement on gambling and changing their numbers and increasing the years must be made, and Mr Georganizing the objections of the New Democracy and all that. Here's the political question, gentlemen of SYRIZA, is one. When the Samara government brought the sale of the OPAP to the shape that it has today... Mr. Chakatus, please pay attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u156	Always.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u157	And first, Tsakalotos himself, I remember you - I'm not saying about the flawless memory of Zoe Konstantopoulou, she had come here, Mr. President, and said she'll take us all to a special court - but all the rest of the others who were behind yelling: "Outwork!" You say now: “What is it to us that you have sold it?” Yes, sir. Let's assume you're really saying that. If you didn't want this sale, and you were loaded by the previous ones, what better chance now if the company loses money, as it claims, from gambling you not to make today's arrangement, the company will continue to lose its money and be forced an hour before she goes? What's the point if you don't want this company in Greece to make sure the company wins money?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u158	There are contracts, procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u159	Contracts don't say change their number. No, Minister, the contracts do not say either to change their number or to increase them in the years. That is what you are voting on today. Leave that to me. So, what is it that proves? It turns out the previous ones didn't charge you the sale of the OPCW. You want to sell the OPAP. And now you have to tell us, if you want to sell it, why would you shout when the Samara government proceeded? What's changed? I am going to the last one on Mr Pappas' amendment to reduce the special TV tax by 15%, from 20% to 5%. What are you, Pharisee hypocrites? There is no one we live in Greece. The TV specialist agreed with the troika the government of George Papandreou. He didn't apply him. Samara government's here. It didn't apply him. Well, she didn't apply him.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u160	Why? He didn't apply a law, and you say good?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u161	Don't be in a hurry. I'll finish. As you know, with your own votes too many times in this Parliament you have suspended the application of laws you personally are shouting. You guys yelling because you think people don't know what you're doing in here. Don't bring you fifteen laws that you've voted to suspend. But let's go to today. After you were invoking us that we were organs of the canals, interconnecting, and we did not put the tax and we said "Children, this tax badly agreed by Papandreou, it was wrong because this tax burdens the channels and goes to the consumer and harms the economy, so we didn't apply it", you intertwined us, you intertwined us. Aren't you telling me, today that the tax you've put on and advertised as your great success, you're cutting it off, because from 20% you're leaving a 5% to rip-off, now you're not intertwined? So, now who are you legislating for exactly? You, Vettas you're looking at me now and you're smiling about who you're legislating for? Don't you legislate about the channels? Now you're not intertwined! You guys are good people now! Now you're doing it for your mother's soul, you guys are good, we were intertwined! I'm saying that for only one reason. I'm saying that this tax should never have entered. And it's right...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u162	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u163	Why, did something change? You're going to have a competition. The tax is being abolished now and retroactively. So, what are you doing today? You are entitled to the Samara government, which did not put this tax - because this tax should not have entered - but you do not come to the House now, "children, apologise for what we were squeezing at you, apologise for all this "slash" we were flying. Because if the mud you were flying to us then, now that you have taxed and taxed, it is in duplicate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u164	We did the contest.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u165	Your contest has been cancelled. The Council of State...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u166	However, there is no dialogue, Mr Georgiadis. There's no dialogue. We're already in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u167	The competition's off.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u168	It's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u169	The tax is abolished retroactively, sir. So you know what you're voting for. You don't abolish the tax when the contest takes place. You're retroactively abolishing the tax.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u170	Now it's going to be the contest...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u171	Leave that to me. If New Democracy did that, first you yelling, you'd say it's complicated. All I'm saying is that you're welcome to take off the tax, which shouldn't have come in, but the Greek people should know how much liars and hypocrites you are on this subject too! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u173	Mr President, please speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u174	Mr. Drizzas has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u175	Mr President, I am not used to asking for the floor on personal grounds. There are usually abuses in requests for a Member of Parliament to speak on staff. I avoid it, but here it is ad hoc, because it has been mentioned three - four times by Mr Georgiadis to me. I sincerely thank him for his statement before Parliament that it honors my honesty. I collect it as the honesty of all SYRIZA members, but in any case he addressed me. I do not understand, of course, how such a statement can be linked by completing that it has no place of irony. If I had an adequate answer - I do not ask - I would forgive the next one. Indeed, I demeaned when I heard Mr Georgian rhetoric about the fact that the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance are not telling the truth about over-performance. Because at that time, listening to such arguments, it was very normal for me to think "that is, Alexis Tsipras, the Prime Minister of Greece, Euclids Tsakalotos, from their pocket will give this money or where else could they find it if there were no over-performance?" And that's why I demeaned. From there on, everything else has been answered by both the Minister, Mr Papapas and the others. I believe - and I conclude with this - that we are not using Parliament to produce three-minutes and five-minutes on television windows. Because I think this does not strengthen Parliament, on the contrary it strengthens a public debate which leads to a complete deadlock on every issue at the expense of Greek society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, Mr. Dritsa.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u177	Mr President, I would ask you to speak as a parliamentary representative for a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u178	Here, Mr. Mada, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u179	I want a little placement to explain, 'cause I'll talk tomorrow too. I would like to say, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that it is the panic on the part of specific opposition parties that have been placed against the dilemma of the Prime Minister of the country, so that the interpretations they have given are not just excessive. I will study them a second time in the Minutes before my speech tomorrow. But in the first hearing there really is a voice left. One explanation, namely, is that almost the civilization is being destroyed and the other explanation is that the answer will be given to the poll. In the interpretations of Mr Georgiadis, I do not want to talk at all about it. Because these are not just excesses, but more than that, which I do not want at this time to capture in any way. I would like, however, - and I am ending with this - to say that he is a very bad consultant and embarrassment and anxiety. As for those who seek and have a cloak with chairs, let them look elsewhere and not for the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u180	Thank you, Mr. Mada. Mr Cavalellas has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u181	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin my speech with a brief reference to the main features of the draft law being passed, so that I can then refer to the reasons why we first have a positive one - and we have noted some of our positions - the bill. Why do we treat it positively? Perhaps he will put things in order for the benefit of the Greek public who is losing money at the moment because of the fact that it has not been institutionalised, there has been no modern regulation on gambling. I would therefore like to express my dissatisfaction at the continuation of the government's constant practice. I am talking about a large number of amendments which are miraculously coming at the last minute so that we cannot study, except for the amendment on Parnitha's casino. And by the way, perhaps the transfer of the casino to the border of the Municipality of Acharnon should be considered. It would have been much more - let's say - fair. The legislation we are debating today first of all provides for the reduction from thirty-five thousand to twenty-five thousand of the number of toys which can operate on Greek territory. Furthermore, there is no possibility for the PPP to grant the right to install and operate games to concessionaires. They extend by eight years the period of validity of the operating licence for gaming companies from the OPCW. They introduce express legislative power to sign a new contract between the Greek State and the company “OPAP S.A.” to specialise the terms and conditions of the exercise of the right of the “OPAP S.A.” in the installation and exploitation of the games. Furthermore, they provide for an increase of twenty-five to fifty the number of toys in the store, which can be placed in open spaces and from three to fifteen of the number of toys that the PPP can install in its agencies. As we stressed in the committee debate, the bill is moving in the right direction in an attempt to contribute to the service of the public interest and not to black money and illegal gambling. It aims, therefore, to strengthen the protection of players of machine analogues. We'll talk about this, of course. It attempts to simplify the EEPC's audit competence. This is claimed by the Government that it will come from the total reduction of the games from thirty-five thousand to twenty-five thousand that will be put into operation by the company "OPAP SA" throughout the Greek territory, as well as from the increase in the number of games that are allowed to be installed in purely type 2 stores in no more than fifty of the existing wall of twenty-five and in the press shops of the company "OPAP S.A.", i.e. in fifteen shops per shop from the limit of three currently in force. So this bill is intended - and it must have this objective - to help reduce gambling addiction and uncontrolled money smuggling, and also to commit criminal behaviour, which occurs and is related to gambling. It can also help to channel players into the legally designated and controlled areas, which of course have the necessary certification, and help prevent illegal providers from evading money from Greece abroad. It tends towards better organization of the gaming market and helps to combat dirty money laundering and tax evasion again for the benefit of the public. There's too much positive. We hope on this point that this effort by the government can also limit the phenomenon of illegal machinery which, as has been said, has reached and exceeded EUR 1.3 billion. We also consider it fair, since the OPCW has already paid him the total amount of EUR 560 million in order to obtain the right to operate thirty-five thousand machinery in accordance with the contract signed with the Greek public contract, to provide him with a sufficient amount of money to compensate for this loss of revenue of the company. After the reduction of machinery, of course, there is one proposal from ten to eighteen years to increase the period of validity of the licence. [[At this point, the President-in-Office takes over the Vice-President of Parliament, Ms. MARios GEORGIADIS.]] However, I should also make some reservations about the general context of the operation of the toy market set by the EUPM Regulation in November 2016. We've raised some issues like having a player ID. I guess it was accepted by the government as far as I understand it. To have an electronic identity for the player so we can know how he plays. Also consider the maximum loss position in accordance with the tax declaration. A distance of one another could be set, say, two hundred meters, not to create a platter. 'Cause when there's a place where all the sick get together there. Alcohols must not be served in the playground. There's also an inscription to help communicate with the addict, with some experts. To sum up, therefore, I would like to say that we are positive. Our debt, of the Central Association, is to preserve and protect the Greek family. To this end, our party has tabled an amendment for the integration of the three-tier and tenant families into Law 1910/1944. Our proposal also concerns other categories, such as cases of disabled war, victims of war, widows of a third family, cases of death of one or more of the three children and aims to extend the status of a multinational family and of the related benefits to third families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u182	Thank you very much Mr Cavadela. The reason for this is the independent Member, Mr Nicholas, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u183	Mr President, I do not think the President-in-Office has noticed that I, too, asked for staff, as he gave the others, to give me the two minutes. So please for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u184	If you lifted my hand, I'd give him to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u185	I raised it several times, but I didn't want to make a point.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u186	You'll have the tolerance, don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u187	Although well-known Adonis said what he said, I feel the need from the Step so that I can give an explanation and an answer. You know, he's a mushroom, so he doesn't know what's in this party. So, ladies and gentlemen, when Costas Karamanlis made me a Scandal secretary, an information and documentation secretary, I guess I'd say that for all the years he was the Head of the New Democracy - he said: "Please, please, no monkey scandal." It'll be real the scandals we'll show up. It'll be real. You will not do errands for people just to create impressions!” Be well! Be well, Kosta, wherever you are, because today, following his mandate, Mr. Alfouzouzu's lawsuits, which he had done at my expense, fell down on me. Because he told the Committee of Inquiry, when we were looking into the media loans, "I'm going to sue you!" And he did. And today I was informed by Mr. Majurans that the decision came out and the lawsuit went down. The same happened with Mr Bobola, because what I have scandalized was true and indeed. Eighteen months in prison first and twelve! Father and son Bobollas! The same thing happened with Mr. Nearmenas! Do you remember him on the board of inquiry? The DWO made him $75 million! So it was really scandals. That's the difference, Mr. Georgiadis. But how would you know that? It's okay. But it's not the only thing that makes me surprised and sad. It was what we watched today. Who would now expect this from the Central Right People's Party? To sound from Nikos Dendia - you'll tell me, a college boy is Nikos, but it's okay, he's elected - that he's sad, because the Prime Minister announced some social benefits. Instead of saying that they're little, they're crumbs, we want more, we'll give more, they say, we'll take you and what's left, and the scene that someone said. Oh, my God, if that's possible! Have they lost the measure? Nobody's talking to them? They don't understand what the point is? So much bitter today? Why, he says, did the Prime Minister say in favour of the weak and the poor? The Citizenship is being destroyed. And there sounded like something even more awesome. Listen, Mr. Georganta, you're from the right-hand Kilkis. Does the Prime Minister have an unmediated relationship with the people? Whoa! Leaders shouldn't, he says. And it's like that. Because in Patras, who came yesterday, he had a bottle of alcohol in his pocket to clean his hands out of the germs. There's no photograph of civilians. He told them: “I with the polo? The leader? You are obliged to serve me and I do you a favor. I do not now have much - much with the people.' And he goes out every day and went out here today. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to say about the embarrassment and guilty attitude of the Opposition to the debate...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u188	Are we going to say anything about the government? Did you say anything?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u189	The government is saying, Mr Georgioda, what is wrong. You know what's wrong with you? You and for the right, say it's wrong and that's why no one takes you seriously. Understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u190	We're voting already!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u191	So, a few days ago in committee, Mr Georgiodakis also listened, because he was the rapporteur, what happens in Greece with the illegal "fruits" that operate throughout the country. We have all heard, and those who say 'yes' today, say 'yes' in the first place, but we will not vote on the articles, that there are hundreds of thousands of illegal 'fruits', who are raving 1.5 billion a year, and that the state is losing 400 million euros! Who's got the illegal stuff? The fruit traders in the vegetable market? Oh, no! Media strangers! It's really unbelievable! And what do they want? To continue this illegality freely. Have you seen the data from the Toy Control Committee? It says that from 2005 to 2015 we had more than eighteen thousand confirmed gambling violations, that more than 5 million euros were seized and twenty-nine thousand arrests were made. Can I say it again? Twenty-nine thousand people were arrested. You know that's how the Tripoli population is? This is, then, the wild beast of lawlessness of illegal gambling. Do you know what Mrs. Bakoyannis, Mr. Mitsotakis' sister, said? He said: "Ah, if this is passed, Greece will become an endless casino." But where do you live? And if these do not reach you, please remember the saliva caused by Mace Triantafylopoulos' emissions, those TV shows for the infamous and infamous "fruits". So, today, clearly, with our vote, will we say 'yes' to the illegal or legal, illegal or uncontrolled gaming industries? Oh, that's the dilemma, everything else is like that, because they think people don't understand. Here, therefore, the Greeks and Greeks, who went to the polls yesterday, must listen to the Chief at PASOK and the other small groups following it, that it is thirty-five thousand electronic machines and that the PASOK Government, Mr Vangelis Venizelos, gave them. Today - what hypocrisy, my God! - votes yes, he says, in principle, but not on articles. How does that explain, what can I tell you? Mr Giannakopoulos - I see that only Katerina is here, old ONNEDISs of 1974 - was in the executive office of ONNED. He is the subsequent Secretary General of Vangelis Venizelos who took him to the Ministries, Secretary General of PASOK, that is, not by accident, right hand. He was appointed by the PASOK Chairman of the Committee on Gambling Control. The Commission came to the committee yesterday and said that it was all well burned up what they were doing here today. Mr. Giannakopoulos of PASOK said so. They didn't hear him? They heard him. Now, what is it? The government or the opposition self? I don't know, it's your business. Untie it. A lot has been said, then, at the meeting that took place and the knives to be called to the committee and Antonis Stergiotis, this man the Leventis, the President of the EEPC, appointed by Varoufakis. Do you know why he appointed him? So listen, you, the enemies of Varoufakis because he appointed this man and what dirty work they had agreed to do. Mr. Varoufakis says it in his book. In his book he confessed to thinking to abolish the license granted to the OPAP. But because it could not be because the OPAP would have appealed to the courts, which it would have earned, and that would cost the state a lot of money that was not there, which is why it planned to change the regulation. He had found the right man for the right place, Antonis Sergiotis, the casino man, for those who don't know about it. And what did Mr. Stergiotis do? That is exactly what, just after his appointment, he passed the new regulation. And then what happened? The OPCW dragged the government into the courts for hundreds of millions of euros and allowed the illegals to perpetuate and load the country with a judicial adventure and revenue losses.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u192	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u193	I shall conclude, Mr President. I would like to repeat what I said to the committee in front of Mr Stergiotis, that in the next few days I have filed press reports to see his personal responsibilities, his real responsibilities and, of course, Mr Varoufakis's book. Ladies and gentlemen, why did the next President, Mr Karagorou, have to take over immediately? To close companies recommended by the competent authorities to Mr Stergiotis that they are illegally playing and should be closed. Why didn't he close them? How much money was played in these companies until they got close? How much money did the state lose from them? How many millions illegally did the national bets win? Who's got a screw? The answers will be given to the findings of the Financial Prosecutors and the relevant public prosecutors that will be issued around this great scandal. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to look at what the representatives of the OPCW, who came to Parliament and spoke to us, have said. The smokers, now in the new Imitasion New Democracy, do not know that the agencies of the Pro-WHO are the polling centres, where the heart of many ordinary people beats that it is a entertainment centre. So these four and a half thousand small and medium-sized, honest businessmen came and asked us to vote 'yes' the day before yesterday in committee. They said: "We have bleeded financially, because we have installed one, two, three, four machines." And I wonder, do you turn your back on them?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u194	Mr. Nicholas, we've already reached eleven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u195	For who? Do you turn the back on them for whom to take the wish? Who are you working for? What's the interest? If you're not with the propeller of your neighborhood, who are you with? With the national bet driver, who is a national contractor, who is also a national garbageman, who is all those, but who has recently had the fate of Stavros Psychres as well? I read today that his house in Saint Dionysius is being auctioned, and the interested parties can go see it in order to hit it, since nothing is going on, Mr Georgioda, with this government.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u196	Mr. Nicolopoulou, finish it up. You've exhausted my tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u197	So that, ladies and gentlemen, is the bet of all of us on the right to the left. That's the bet of all of us. We in this, of course, will not deny our positive vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u198	Thank you, Mr. Nicholas. Mr Mardas has the floor from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group. Come on, Mr. Colleague, you have the floor for seven minutes. Until you get to Stepma, let me inform you that there are four Members left and we will be closing this evening's sitting. So, logically, in the next half hour, I want to think we'll be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u199	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as I had said in committee, I wish we could live in a world where there would be neither cigarettes nor casinos, nor LOBT or anything. I don't care about any of this, and I wouldn't miss anything. But do you know what would happen in our country if we banned everything? First of all, if I made such a suggestion, you'd take me out of here. On the other hand, we would give a rich tourism to all countries outside Greece, as is done in everything that is forbidden. Unfortunately, in this open market we live in, some things, some passions, we have to follow them. The question in the whole case is that these passions do not create many distortions. A distortion is taxation. So when we ban something, that leads to illegality. The most characteristic example is the smuggling in the United States, which led to the blooming of industries outside the framework of the law. Therefore, what remains is the best possible regulation of such activities. I have not dealt with this matter - either the casino or the PDO - but I began to deal with the moment when a while ago a PASOK spokesman had come out and we had browned that we are smoking the country - we, as SYRIZA, are smoking the country! - having thirty-five thousand gaming machines or VLTs or "fruits" as we call it. Of course, that suggestion was interesting. So I searched and found that the 2011 Act was hampering the country with thirty-five thousand VLTs. Any change leading to the reduction of this number was something positive. From there on, because of the interesting debate in the Committees, some technical analyses have been heard and this shows an improvement in the dialogue within this particular subject. Of course, these technical analyses can be said to be incomplete and have not received many variables in mind. And when we do a technical analysis, it is good to get as many variables as possible to get more accurate results. At the same time, it was heard again by a representative of PASOK that the new regulation had a smell of corruption. And that was an interesting place. In the next few days, Mr. Cargargorios took all the documentary and filed it to the prosecutor. Of course, I wondered, was there a regulation that could change or corruption odour have a regulation, which an corner store sells at a relatively low price, where only one interested party is present? Under certain conditions, and according to Greek legislation, this competition should be cancelled at that time. So, which one did he have a smell of corruption? Observation of corruption, I repeat, has had a regulation that can change or a price which has given many advantages in terms of its repayment to the person concerned who bought it? I would remind you that at that time it was 30 million the whole price and would be deprived by the profits of the OPCW over the next decade, 3 million a year. So if this contract is considered a contract that is profitable to the Greek State, we would like to hear what was not profitable to the Greek State. As far as the regulation is concerned, as you all know, there is a scientific dialogue on how the state should behave against gambling. It is not just like that, as it is presented in the House, and it is much more complex and we must have in mind what I have said before, the ban. In other words, if something is imported that seems to be a very good regulation, as a regulation, the question is whether or not what is imported is causing a prohibition movement or not. If it's causing it, it's not good. Otherwise, it can be applied. I come to a final point relating to Mr Steriotis's regulation. Some issues have been touched by the previous speaker, I will not touch them. I will simply refer to an issue that I raised in committee, but I did not have the answer I expected and remained open. Mr. Stergiotis, as he rightly pointed out, was a person who came from casinos. He knows this work very well and from there on, he created a regulation which led us to the London courts and the compensation was EUR 1.2 billion, because this regulation was in breach of the terms of the contract signed by the PASOK with the contractor. The question I have put was as simple as that. That regulation brought about a balance between casinos and the OPCW or created such a climate in favour of casinos and the detriment of the OPCW? This is an important question. Because if we create a regulation that works in favour of one group and at the expense of another, then this regulation can tell you that it is not vague of many questions and questions. And that question has not been answered. In conclusion, I would like to say that a monopoly is much better controlled than an oligopolistic market. The OPCW can be controlled because it is a monopoly and we see it. The games that are being developed in an oligopoly cannot be seen and these games are, which train too many governments either in the field of public procurement or in the context of various other transactions, carried out in an economy and these games are pediting governments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u200	Thank you, Mr Marda, actually in time. The reason for this is the independent Member, Mr Theodora, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u201	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a draft bill entitled 'A regulation on the market in toys', but it is an entirely fragmentary attempt to regulate minimum issues which have arisen in connection with OPCW. That is to say, the whole matter focuses only on the issue of gaming machines, while the Minister has pledged that other bills relating to to toys are immediately followed. If, then, there was a serious willingness to discuss and resolve all the issues, we should today, Minister, have a comprehensive bill, which speaks of gaming machines, electronic gambling, the big issue of illegal gambling and casinos. First of all, I am going to refer to today's bill. Law 4002/2011 regulates the number of toy machines that would exist on Greek territory and how they were managed by the «OPA S.A.». With today's bill, the total number of machines is reduced by ten thousand and from thirty-five thousand to twenty-five thousand machines all over Greece. Let me remind you that the «OPAP S.A.» had purchased the right to use and inhabit these games for 16,000 euros each. I mean, in total, he deposited 566,000,000 euros. Now, given that the number of machines available is reduced, the Government is now making it necessary to cover this amount to increase the time that the licence will be valid. In other words, since 10 years you have been giving the eighteen years to the OPAP SA. A substantial conclusion comes out of this arrangement. It's that nothing and never can have a stability in Greece. No investment is made without always having an invisible risk of changing a legal framework, just the next day, because the 2011 law is being circumvented. And now I ask you, Minister: Is this 2011 law in favour of whom? For the Greek State or for the benefit of the “OPAP S.A.”? Of course, it is in favour of 'OPAP S.A.'. We have, of course, to say the relevant report on DELOITTE. But we are here to check all versions and discuss socially, politically and not just economicly. The government argues that through the reduction in the number of toy machines and also the number of shops with such machines there will be a better control of the state in these areas. Indeed, this is a side, if we look at the issue, because undeniably, illegal gambling is a huge wound in our country. The issue of illegal gambling has been widening in recent years. At the time of the appalling economic crisis, overtaxation and the appalling reduction in pensions and salaries, it is inconceivable that the figure, which relates to the amounts moved to illegal gambling, is inconceivable. People may find a way out, waiting for hope to win, because hope usually dies lately. But he's dying. We are talking about 6 billion euros, an astronomical sum. It is a matter of urgency that we check and limit it as much as possible. I know, in fact, that the efforts of the Greek police are too great. A few days ago there were new arrests in a mini casino set up here in Attica. However, these measures are not enough, because every illegal club identified immediately shuts down and grows two more. Looks like Lernaia Hydra. Cut a head and grow two new ones. Unfortunately, in times of poverty and economic decline, there is always an increase in gambling. Therefore, the Government today, more than ever, must decisively strike these illegal shops and, above all, be ruthless to any ‘enterprise’ repeatedly commit the same offence. Even greater is the issue of electronic gambling, which is almost uncontrolled. However, the big problem with all these phenomena is not the revenues lost by the state, the state budget, but the terrible addiction that some of our fellow citizens have. As a result of this, it is about creating family, social problems and great insanity, because there is domestic violence, and then the other one, who is like the drug addict, to find the money to play gambling, can also do felony acts, steal, kill, and I don't know what else he can do. Another very important point is that often players are minors and adolescents, who are particularly prone to such games and which we must protect at all costs. Also, let us not forget that with this bill, the Minister tabled the amendment with a general number of 1328 and a special 210 for the transfer of Parnitha's casino. The transfer of the casino from Parnitha to another location within Attica is something that has been under discussion for a long time. But once again the amendment comes isolated from the general context of the operation of casinos and their licensing. At the same time, there are many main issues, such as the conditions for participation of the shareholders of the NRP. You say they will be appointed in the future by ministerial decision. That leaves gaps. Finally, I would like to address the amendment with a general number of 1330 and a specialist of 212. Finally, it is self-evident, that is, those who expect the official version of their pension to make an electronic application and receive a temporary pension of 80% on the final. However, they do not receive the equivalent of the subsidiary, Minister. And subsidiary's been paying for so many years. They must also receive the corresponding amount there, not just from their normal pension. I do not know whether the change comes from a check of the institutions or was absolutely necessary. Did the institutions impose it? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] For a moment, Mr President, I would like you to be indifferent. To date, the poverty to which those who have waited for them for years to be granted pensions is primarily poor culture in this country, because our level of civilisation is not only seen by our museums or by our cultural events, but by the way we treat our older citizens who need state support and do not have a course. I would also like to refer to the amendment tabled by my colleague Mrs Papacostas on the pension of a widow, which I support and I think improves the tragic situation, which is now there for widows because of Article 12 - death pension - of L.4387/2007. As a whole, today's bill does not contain serious problematic provisions. However, once again, it does not solve the problem of gambling and toys as a whole and only depends on balls, which will be able to offer little help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u202	Thank you, Mrs. Big Housekeeper. Mr Michelovanakis has the floor from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group. I should like to inform you, until my colleague comes to Vima, that Mrs Papakostas and Mr Carras are left to close this evening's sitting. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u203	Thank you, Mr President. Firstly, this bill concerns an economy near 6 billion, i.e. an uncontrolled income of 1.5 billion in a market of sixty to eighty thousand illegal machinery. What do we do for all this? Firstly, we reduce the VLTs machinery that will run from thirty-five thousand to twenty-five thousand. Secondly, we are increasing the number of machinery to be installed in sandy areas from twenty-five to fifty machines. And if one estimates that it takes three square meters per machine, all agencies in the OPCW may not absorb all the machinery. Thirdly, we increase the machinery in each OSH agency from three to fifteen. Fourthly, there is a abolition of concessions from the OPAP to concessionaires. Fifth, the licence of the OPCW is increased from 10 to eighteen years as a compensatory measure and the remaining 560 million, which was the 2011 contract. Sixth, there is an authorisation arrangement for signing a contract between the Greek State and the PPA for the conditions of operation of the machinery. End date for unsettled machines on 31 December 2019. Seven, there's an electronic card that now needs the police ID. Eighth, the declared limit of participation, both in cash and in time now. The centres outside the OPCW were a thousand five hundred and the four thousand OPCW agencies. We're counting on the new stores to be about five hundred. The Independent Gaming Control Authority and the Regulatory Authority will work. There will be better supervision than the tax authority. The previous contract was for sixteen and a half thousand OPCW machines and eight and a half thousand machines outside the OPCW. Now it's all twenty-five thousand. I am closing - because it is and I will not go far enough - by saying that this bill will bring less gambling exposure, certainly more effective control, less damage to the public and clear protection to the citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u204	Thank you, Mr Michelovannakis, for the briefness and economy of time. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to the House, in accordance with Rule 86 of the Constitution and Article 3126/2003 'Prime responsibility of Ministers', as is the case on 10-11-2012, a criminal case for the former Minister of Finance, Mr. Ioannis Varoufakis. Mrs Papakostas has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u205	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a bill - and I have tabled an amendment which I would like to support, as my previous colleagues have said - in a suffocating political atmosphere, where there is no oxygen at all, despite the fact that the Greek people, the Greek society, looking forward to the Greek Parliament, can distinguish this qualitative difference in political speech and on the part of the government and on the part of all parties in the counter-population. Instead, what we are experiencing this time is a terrible polarization, acidity, upwards. This situation needs to be exterminated so that the country can work smoothly. We see an atmosphere which I think is not worthy of in the political world, which needs to understand as a whole, but in particular of the government. We must all realise that diversions, political communication, all are elements of the not without political play. What must not, however, be the case - and I note it as a general point - is also a political assumption that I have adopted in any case during the period of crisis that we are experiencing in our country - because it is also a matter of decline, is that we cannot agree on issues for which the Greek people and the Greek society want our synergy and instead of which the next ones - that is to say, the current ones - are engaged in conflicts with the past, attempting to clear up the errors, acts and omissions of the current government in relation to the errors, acts and omissions of the past governments, and that we should go on to see that we have said the most important task or achieved a critical blow to the soft backwards of our political opponent and of course the problems being hidden below the carpet. I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that this is what we are doing. This story "I told you", "what did you do then", "what do I do today", "I do it today a little better than you," "why didn't you do it so many years ago?" "why do you rule, why don't you do the right thing?" He's not coming out. It is a vicious circle, which produces terrible consequences that do not help in any direction, and much more in solving the problems of the Greek people. Settings to buy games. Of course everything that comes from the illegal side of the law, from darkness to light is certainly moving towards regulation in a rule of law, which must regulate its issues on the benefit of society - in this case it must regulate the game market, since this is the subject of the bill - and it must regulate it in dialogue, in consultation with the interested parties. We have seen interested parties claim that the provisions are positive. I, too, claim that simply being positive some provisions or more positive than those previously in force, that does not respond to the substance of the problem. What is the point of the problem? Let us not try, let us not attempt, ladies and gentlemen, because the Greek people know. He may be afflicted, he may be poor, he may be our obligation to pay social dividends, because he has received severe cuts. The middle-class is not just burdened, but consistent taxpayers - and I have tabled a specific question on this - are overtaxed. This is contrary to any concept of constitutional requirements for proportionality, tax capacity, recompense and, of course, where we had the poor, we also have poor people from the middle class. So it is an obligation of the state and it should not be a trophy, the social dividend in the hands of anyone at all. It is the state's duty to perform, because these come from the backwardness and backwardness of the Greek people who bleeding. When previous governments gave this social surplus, then you were across the street. Today that you're giving it up, you're in favor. This attitude does not help, believe me, to create a relationship of trust between society and the political system of the country. I would therefore like to tell you that the arrangements for the purchase of toys, apart from the fact that there may be some improvements, should take into account the following. We cannot discuss investment when we talk about gambling, because the difference between investment and gambling is that investment is the reasonably anticipated profit, while gambling is "if this does not come out, it is gambling". Jogos always had - to use this expression, since it has been used - from the pesees up to today to the casinos. The question is to see the cost, a cost-benefit theory, a study which says that on the one hand, of course, I regulate an illegal market - and this has to happen and this has already happened from previous governments on the best - but we must also take the moral dimension of democracy, which says that this also brings addiction. Ethnicism, you know, during almost a year that I was responsible for together with other colleagues in the Ministry of Health, except for creating a psychopathology and creating consequences for the personality of people who are addicted to gambling, costs the Greek state as well. There should therefore also be a cost-benefit theory in relation to these issues, in addition to the ethical dimension of democracy, which must be legislated for the benefit and its moral policy in a rule of law and not just for profit. I accept, of course, that in a society which is an open market, the country should not fall short of other countries. It must also have the advantage of other countries taking such markets and exploiting them for the benefit of the whole of society. Before closing, Mr President, I would like to say that an issue which has been discussed, but which has not been resolved, is the issue of widow's pensions. There has therefore been an amendment which has created an even greater problem than that which was called upon to solve because of the multitude, the multiplier of age limits. In fact, this kind of regulation brings double inequality to the detriment of pensioners from widows and women, because, on the one hand, with the new provision of the Katrugalos Act, as we say, they have suffered cuts, like all pensioners. On the other hand, with the removal of fixed age, for example, it was the age limit and other conditions, there are also a second inequality that cuts down the already demolished widow's pensions twice. So I'm going to be beg very much. I have tabled Amendment 1342/214, where I propose that the very problematic points of Article 12 of the Katrugalo Law, namely No.4387/2016, should be corrected. In particular, I propose that this complex age limit should not apply, which was introduced by the Katorugalou Act and despite the pension that the surviving spouse should be entitled regardless of age. I also propose that the surviving spouse - it is planned for the amendment - should receive 70% of the pension and for his children to be distributed the remaining 30%. I also propose that the old arrangement, which was more solid and more correct, should have been made three years before the death of the husband or wife and not five years, as it is now. Finally, by closing - and perhaps some may say - we will resolve any attempts to restore spouses, who or who have been married only to inherit the pension of the deceased - I tell you that they are avoided by the arrangement which provides for a gradual reduction in pension if the difference is more than ten years. Mr President, I should like to conclude by saying that we do not legislate smoothly, nor do we legislate in easy time. That is why Parliament should set an example to Greek society that it can be lifted to the level of circumstances not by leasing or undermining, not by smuggling or deporting, but by working consciously, along with the elected government - which it is every time - to solve the problems of Greek society. Then, gentlemen, we will have done a very important job when citizens feel they can trust the political world again. Then, really, we will have accomplished our mission. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u206	Thank you, Mrs. Papakosta.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u207	Mr President, could I have the floor, because I would like to answer Mrs Papacosta now and not tomorrow?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u208	Here, Minister, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u209	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be very brief. Obviously, there is a misunderstanding in our amendment. That is why I will not accept the one that Mrs Papacosta has put forward and proposed. The misunderstanding is that it has not been understood, although I mentioned it to the committee in which I tabled our amendment, that we are in fact almost doubling the pension for widows, as a threshold of course. Let me tell you that I asked my colleagues and made a list of old-changing widow's pension threshold in the individual insurance funds before they joined the ECA. While we now have EUR 384 for the widow or the widow - whether a man or a woman is the same - and EUR 384 for children, i.e. EUR 768 for the minimum, 20 years, was, of course, in the former IKA 438 euros, in OSH 378 euros, in TEBE 341 euros, in OGA 73 euros. I think that the comparison is overwhelming. This proposal we are making, the amendment we are introducing really improves - almost double - the minimum pension. In fifteen years it is EUR 460, because it is reduced for each year from twenty and ends up being the minimum of EUR 360, twice or more, as is the case with death pensions. We're improving everything else. In other words, the pension is paid to children who are studying or prolonging the payment of this pension when they have not been able to enter school with their first test, i.e. children who are trying to join higher education institutions or TEI. This payment is continuing. There are too many positives and I would not like to develop them any more. I developed them in the debate. There are also records of the relevant developments in the Minutes. That is why, Mrs Papacosta, we will not accept your proposal. We will also not accept it because, as I have said, in the next period and before 2019, we must - and we will do so - find measures to fill that time gap that does not fill in the 55th year of age. We will take such measures to support these cases, because no one should be left unprotected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u210	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u211	Mr President, may I speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u212	Mrs Papakostas, it is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure. But I will give you the floor for a very brief speech. Here you go, Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u213	Thank you very much. I mean, Minister, you're just filling in, you're not correcting. Watch out. There is no correction, because this supplement does not change anything for pensioners with more years of insurance. That's the first gap. I don't know if you'll set it up later. The second thing I would like to say to you, the major one that has not been touched by the amendment with which you are supplementing and not correcting, is the age limit. That's the big problem. The pension rate received by the surviving spouse has also not been reached. There was no change in the period during which a couple had to be married in order to apply the right to a widow's pension. See it again and here we are to legislate. Do not rush, however, to say that you are correcting, because you fill in and keep the matters that I have put to you. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u214	Thank you, Mrs. Papakosta.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u215	Mr President, I just want to make one comment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u216	Minister, you have begun the dialogue now and are not provided for in the procedure. I shouldn't have given you the floor at first. Be brief, so that we can finish the meeting. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u217	I stress the importance of the provision on a very sensitive subject, which we are really concerned about dealing with with with the sensitivity that Mrs Papakostas has put into it. We don't argue here. But I explained why I am not accepting it. That's the least. It does not mean that if the pension is higher there is no higher pension paid to widows. Maybe it's bigger. This is the minimum, if it is less the pension the deaths receiver receives. That's all this is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u218	Good, Minister. It's clear. Come on, Mr. Carras, let's have the meeting together. You have the floor for seven minutes. You have the tolerance, of course, since you are last.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u219	Mr President, when I was announced that I would be the last speaker, in view of the image of the Chamber and the fatigue of the colleagues who had to leave, I thought that my speech should, since we are talking about toys, be so gambled. In other words, I should like to refer to issues which do not in themselves relate to the bill, but which would give another dimension to the debate on toys. Sadly, however, this is blocking me now. There is the reversal of the draft law in which pension issues take precedence. I'm doing a little parentheses. If Mrs Papacosta allows me to fill in this. Apart from the pesos, I can remind you of the ancient ankle game. I'm closing the parentheses. So I'm coming back. If pension issues are raised, I would like to say this. I have followed very closely and have followed the debate on so-called widow's pensions from the very beginning. I have not been convinced all along since May 2016 what the reason for these age restrictions is. If there were any other criteria, such as economic, social, I could discuss it. But with a vertical age limitation, I am not convinced who is and whether this is the reason for such a financial burden and that it is no longer possible to satisfy a request. I do not only connect it with the economic aspect, which the government is trying to improve as much as possible. The enjoyment, anyway, has an ending point. We don't have a change. In order to avoid the straightforward response of the Minister, he says: 'We are studying it, we will see it later'. Would it not be appropriate for it to have been studied and seen now when we had a huge protest all over Greece? I do not want to make a statement because they have demonstrated the complete dignity with which they are moving on to their demands. Should we not therefore strengthen it in the context of the country's demographic problem? I also connect it to demographics, lack of births. When deaths are more than the births in Greece of the crisis, my mind goes to another point, that widow’s pensions will also be an incentive, because, unfortunately, those who, during their working life, usually lose their lives, will think very much about what they will leave behind, especially if they operate in dangerous occupations, such as mining professions - the Skouries are up-to-date at this time - and the professions such as drivers, port workers. Look at it in this direction. From a legal point of view, I still saw Mrs Papacosta's amendment, and I must say that I consider it to be creating a step forward. I do not think it is the financial costs that cannot be eliminated by age criteria, but unfortunately we have not yet heard of this. At least - it may be my own weakness - I have never heard what the cost is and why these cuts should be made. Of course, on the other hand, we have provisions in the same Toys Act. There is also a second issue that should concern us. Yes, we all know that there has been a Memorandum of Understanding since 2010 to increase the revenues of the Greek State from games, because this would also reflect the obligations on loans. We all know the competition between electronic gambling, between the toys. We're all talking about tax evasion, tax evasion done by bet companies. But it is not balanced, at least in this bill - even if in his explanatory statement he is trying to give a pretext to the moral aspect of the issue - the moral potential to soften or defuse dependency, addiction to toys. When close to my home there are gaming machines and I have nothing else to do, I will go and go back to the end of six seconds. You will allow me an example and I would like to say it, although I did not want to include it in my speech. I was in a village where I was resting. Sunday morning, at 9:00, I came down to the church in the village square. The church had two ladies old and outside five others complaining against the OPAP agent, who had delayed opening his store and wanted Sunday morning definitely to go play KINO, GZOKER, and I don't know what else these games are called. If that's the image of Greece, I'm sorry. And I have to say something else. During judgment periods there we are driving. We're getting into gambling as a matter of urgency. It will increase the number of those who will seek profit from a lottery, the profit from a lucky game. And I must remind you this: I have not yet heard any measures on the clubs in Athens. And I have to say this, that there are clubs in Athens, which I don't know what veil covers them, and that's where I'm going to use the expression I've heard from the same club player - slaughtering the players every night. All this together if we sum up, Mr President... I also hear a musical conflict, like a piano light, which prescribes the end of the speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u220	No, it's a mistake from the computer. Keep going, Mr. Carras.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u221	Let's just leave it to play, Mr. President. The debate is taking place today, I said it all along.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u222	Then music.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u223	So I think that all this should be a full set-up, because, as I said, the crisis, which is economic, will also lead to addictions. Finally, I want to say something else about casinos. Of course, the government has said that it will bring in a single bill. I don't see it yet. I see a change in the current legal regime for Parnitha Casino, which says the company will compensate - and why not indemnify, since from the high mountains we download it down the plain? - with a series of too many legal games. I will not repeat what the Scientific Service of the Parliament has identified in relation to the placement, in relation to the problems relating to the regulatory plan of Athens and the wider area, because these will be found in front of the route. What I mean to say is this: I was one of those I had stalked, although I had voted in the sense of investment, the Greek Convention. I said something, that it has too many imperfections, that it does not guarantee the state, that it guarantees the investor more. And we're seeing something else today. To overcome some obstacles that have arisen - it is not here to talk about - we leave, we release, we prepare the world for the fact that there will be another casino in Greek. This casino in Greek is inside the city's web and we don't know how those who have the six second nature will behave or whether we'll try to attract high income players or casinos - as you want to tell them - who when they come to play their money or win another series of regionals, who are also approaching crime. But don't get into this conversation. It's a question of criminal law and forensics. And just to say this: Two, three casinos are now in Attica. Is that a need? Are there going to be restrictions on casinos that will work so that they won't be free to enter each other? The provisions of the European Union, which leave the country to legislate in connection with the regulation of toys, will be taken into account, but they protect first of all those who do not want to play games. And we should not take the view that it cannot be the one who is eighteen or twenty-one years old or who has to be an addict to say. Don't open by our door, small casinos, because then we'll have other consequences. Mr President, thank you for your tolerance too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u224	Thank you, Mr. Carras. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-13-S1-commons.u225	With the consent of the House at 22.27' the meeting for tomorrow, Tuesday 14 November 2017 at 10.00, on the subject of Parliament's work: legislative work, continuation of the debate and vote of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance "Retirement regulations of Law.4387/2016, arrangements for the purchase of games, for the Greek Casino of Parnitha S.A. and other provisions".
