ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 8-11-2017, the minutes of its meeting of Wednesday 8 November 2017 (morning), with regard to the vote on the whole draft law: ‘Strengthening the Enhanced Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States and the Republic of Kazakhstan, of the one part, and the Republic of Kazakhstan, of the other part’.]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK The only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development: "Activation of outdoor commercial activities, modernisation of the chamber legislation and other provisions". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 1 November 2017 to discuss the draft law at one or two meetings. I propose that the draft law should be uniform in principle, articles and amendments. I appreciate, on the basis of how many Members have spoken in committee, that nine Members have spoken, at best, in the House - that the second sitting will not be required. We have calculated the times of the Parliamentary Representatives, the Minister and all the colleagues who are enrolled and are counting on finishing tonight, around 21: 00, so that we have much more hours tomorrow for the health bill, which will begin this morning. For anyone who wants to register, as soon as Mr Simorellis comes up in Step, the electronic record will be opened and as soon as Mr Yiakoumatos comes down from Step, he will be closed. And after we see how many people they're registered, we're having a talk again about the time we can finish tonight or one in a million need to continue tomorrow. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u2	The House therefore agreed. We are starting with the general rapporteur of SYRIZA Mr Christos Simorellis. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we finally had the luck of falling on the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, where the Prime Minister spoke a moment ago. It turns out that, at the end of the day, when the bills that come and go to Parliament are bills which, in some ways, are being promoted by all the parties, there is not that interest, there is no exacerbation, they are all inclined and, apparently, few Members are watching or are in plenary today.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u4	A few good ones, Mr. Simorellis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u5	Of course, it is. But to think that today comes a bill - a bill - I would say it - concerning outdoor trade, chambers and certain provisions of the Ministry of Economy. In particular, I think the first issue is one of the most basic ones. This bill comes to solve years of problems, diseases, which exist in this area. After all, we are all aware of the people's markets in towns and municipalities, and we know exactly what is going on there, what interests there are and conflicting. Those who have contact with the markets see every day the problems and diseases that exist. This draft law enables us, in fact, to deal with all the issues. In particular, the first issue, rural trade, is about producer, farmer, that is to say, professional sellers, but also about consumers, because we need to know exactly what we are consuming. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today in plenary concerns the regulation of the operation of rural trade and the modernisation of logistics. In addition, it is accompanied by a number of provisions and amendments of the Ministry of Economy, which are discussed in the last articles. Today's plenary comes as a follow-up to committees, in which more than forty bodies were posted and tabled statements on the two very important issues for the Greek economy. The first is to try to include all forms of outdoor trade in a law and to define their conditions of operation, and the second is to reorganise and strengthen the role of chambers in the economic life of the country. We are therefore talking about a bill dealing with a large part of the population, it was created after a thorough dialogue between the Ministry and the social actors, and that justifies the delay in the statement. In order to prevent a criticism that has been heard in the committees by the Committees, the multi-legislative draft we are debating has different areas of competence of the same Ministry, all designed to cure problems and gaps, which, in the majority of them, have emerged from the bodies themselves in the consultation. They are all just as important for the economy and the country, and they express the government's political position, which is also a demand for better public administration, for more effective controls, for the reduction of bureaucracy and for the use of electronic means of governance, which in the past had been exemplified and were left unusable. Let us move on to the first part on the organization of rural trade. The law aspires to make rural trade a stable pillar of development and a key factor in social welfare. In the previous framework of operation, i.e. the well-known Law 4264/2014, several pathogens and gaps were identified by the citizens’ collective bodies and local government. A number of the provisions are essentially reinforced by the producer, who can now be active in both the people and the individual and through cooperatives, and to issue stagnation and planetary trade permits by extending his activity to additional regions. The licensing procedure is also simplified with the requirement for less supporting and bureaucracy. The placement of the sellers in the people will be carried out by molecules based on social criteria and professional conduct. Our aim is to break a regime that has been in place for years in several municipalities with customer relations to ensure a better position. The self-representation of the producer, which can be replaced by his wife and children, is being abolished and is not being constantly absent from the production process, so that he can be on the people's bench. It is another favorable provision that helps the farmer to cope with the difficulties of his profession. In addition, an innovation of the law is that dairy products will be allowed to be sold in popular markets by owners of small undertakings producing cheese products - non-farmers - provided that they do not have a retail shop. The issue and renewal of the authorisation shall be dismantled from the requirement of autopsy in the producer's crops and shall be made on the basis of a responsible producer's declaration and a comparison with the IAEA's data. The producer thus facilitates and achieves decongestion of the administration. As far as the professional seller is concerned, the licences are social and will be issued by the region by 40% to unemployed and 60% to special social groups. The professional will now be able to act in all regional units of the region which publishes licences.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u6	Mr Simorelli, I apologise, but I have to interrupt you for half a minute to make a statement to this House. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, twenty-three students and students and four teachers - their attendants from the 1st Gymnasium of Papagos. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Carry on, Mr. Simorelli, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u7	In order to continue, therefore, according to the model of the People's Markets Commissions in Attica and Thessaloniki, committees with close composition throughout the country, made up of representatives of the administration and of the sellers, are being established. This model is very functional, as local issues will be dealt with by the body that will be aware of local peculiarities. It is also introduced, for the first time, an obligation on the operators of the public markets to draw up rules of operation and a topographic chart for each popular market operating on their administrative limits. Then there is an article on consumer markets, the known markets without intermediaries, as we have known so far. The aim of these markets is to cultivate consumer awareness and develop links of social solidarity. The opportunity is given once a month at the municipality level. Social solidarity with the citizens' initiative played an important role in strengthening citizens in need over the past period. The delimitation of positions in the stationary trade is regulated and short-term permits are provided for unemployed for sale in clipping meals. In addition to the global trade, the conditions for its exercise, the population limits and the principles for granting such licences are laid down. A difference with the existing law concerns the population limits that are being extended. It is intended to streamline the amounts of administrative sanctions to comply with the country's new economic conditions, and there is a rating based on the extent of illegality, in order to avoid incidents that have been observed, to charge high fines for the sale of small quantities. With the information system to be implemented, the state will have full supervision in outdoor trade. All operators, licenses, all organised markets and areas operating there will be recorded. Ladies and gentlemen, the organisational upgrading of rural trade by the Ministry of Economy and Development is a proposal that is comprehensive, realistic and directly applicable. Many issues, which remain unregulated with the current legal framework, such as the system of folk positioning, the spatial validity of permits and the competent administrative body, are now regulated. It's a law with strong social characteristics. The licensing of sellers is granted to vulnerable social groups and account is taken of income criteria. Let us note here that the administrative fines for the beneficiaries of the CRL, the Social Solidarity Income, are reduced from 5,000 to 500 euros and the payment of rural trade to half. In Part II concerning the chambers, the bill aims to re-establish their operating conditions and heal problems that we have encountered in this institution in the past. In detail, the bill recognises six main organisational and operational problems: inability to carry out their advisory role, apparent subscribing, lack of organisation and operation of services, lack of strategy and planning, low availability of funds for logistical purposes and fragmentation of services into functions outside chambers. These are problems recorded during the consultation with the Union of Chambers, workers and social partners. Chambers have a specific role to play. They must act as pillars of the economy as advisors to the state and help their members in their business operation. An innovation of the law in this direction is the institution of the Business Support Centres. These centres will assist in the contact of enterprises with the public services and provide entrepreneurship advisory and use of financial instruments. The representativeness and proportionality of the electoral system shall be strengthened on both the Management Board and the Administrative Committees. The Federal type of election of the Boards is also abolished. and a maximum of two successive terms shall be established for the position of the President. In order to simplify the participation of women entrepreneurship, a gender quota is established in the ballots. Only partial syndicated lists shall be drawn up as each combination must now involve all sections and in this way the interests of different branches shall be balanced. The financial management of chambers with the existing audit provisions is fully aligned. The concept of supervision by the State is clarified in order to enhance transparency. The internal audit procedures and public accountability for their activities are also specified. With this the financial supervision of the Chambers will be open and accessible to the Greek people. Subsidy is dealt with by strengthening staff, without any charge of the state budget and of the budget of the Chambers. For decades we have seen chambers confronting the problem of subsistence with staff engaged in legal persons who had themselves set up local trade associations. In accordance with this law, an AACC competition will be conducted by mobilising the actual service of the existing staff in the Chamber. There's an end to the opaque intakes. At the end of this procedure, the companies of the Chambers will be prohibited from subsidising their employees and from moving employees to general government bodies. The notion of Chamber member shall be clarified. The companies enrolled in the GFCM retain the right to participate in the chambers and at the same time provide opportunities for voluntary registration to companies that are not obliged to register in the GFCM. An important innovation is the institution of the Regional Chambers, which is a regional coordination and advisory body. He submits proposals to the district manager on development issues, participates in the preparation of the Regional Operational Programme and represents the chambers at the Regional Council. This strengthens regional cooperation and creates economies of scale for participation in international exhibitions and better regional planning. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A few more seconds, Mr. President. In addition, Disciplinary Councils, involving both the employees and the administration, are established and for the first time lay down provisions on disciplinary responsibility for the administrations of Chambers and the Central Union of Chambers. The institutional framework for the bilateral chambers is also being modernised in order to become an essential factor in the extroversion of the Greek economy and in the effectiveness of bilateral diplomacy. It is obvious that there is a real modernisation of the institution of the role of chambers. It is a bill that will play a key role in the development and enhancement of entrepreneurship, contrary to the recent past that many crucial issues for the organisation and functioning of the institution have even been regulated by legislative acts. The reform we are planning has been based on extensive dialogue with the curatorial community. In the third part of the bill we have a series of provisions of the Ministry of Economy, with more important the establishment of the SYKEAP, the Coordinating Centre for Market and Management. It is an instrument that will help to combat the illegal trade, which is a key objective of the government. Then, we have mentioned the recruitment of staff of the Hellenic Investment Company and External Trade SA. APAs and provisions for the organisation and functioning of the Private Debt Management Secretariat. Finally, we have articles relating to the staff of the Consumers' Counsellor, the reimbursement of sums unduly paid to the Competition Committee and a number of amendments to previous laws. Finally, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government with substantial reforms, such as the current one, is attempting to create a legal framework in areas where previous governments have left gaps and ambiguities and to institutionalise legislation on memorandum Greece. The Greek economy is constantly improving and we are taking positive steps towards the end of the programme and the end of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u8	The rapporteur-General of the New Democracy, Mr Yakoumatos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a bill with a hundred and ten articles, a bill concerning four different entities: the first is the people's markets, rural trade and, in general, the second is the chambers, the third and main is the trade and industry in the OBI. You know, Minister, with that logic we cannot see how the problems really have and how the House can deal with them. Let's go for the OBI. We have no objections. We shall vote on this amendment on 1313/2017. We would, however, like to see these issues, which are very important, at the Ministry of Industry, having a more broad context to discuss and address the problem with the OBI. Let's go to the first part. These are outdoor commercial activities, involving people's markets, entertainment, Christmas markets, Easter and other forms. You know that thousands of people involved, small and medium-sized waffles producers, traders, thousands involved in this trade and, in general, all of the people are recipients of these services. So the people's markets and the rest are indeed a serious institution. The people's market is the people's market, which goes there to buy good and cheap products. It is an institution, which has about ninety years - if I am not mistaken, started by Preveza - and in this ninety years it is constantly evolving - and not only here - and is modernising. But in Europe too, if you see, you will see that this really goes ahead and is evolving, because the people's markets and other forms of rural trade cover the needs of almost all the social strata. Hundreds of benches in popular, hundreds of bazaars all over Greece. This is a good witness to the consumer, because there is also competition. I will make a request here to the regions about the money they have. They had a fund of 13 million, the People's Markets Agency. They took it to the periphery, Mrs Durou, who, with this money, also gave a voucher of one euro, one million, with their money. This money must go to the folk. We need to modernise them. We have to make them have a cultural, at least, appearance. If you go to Barcelona, Spain, you will see that the market there is really something you see and enjoy. This is a stab bag, you'll let me tell you. So this money must go to exorcism, to modernisation, to the beauty of the people's markets. Of course, it's not just the people's markets. The second part of the bill speaks of the chambers. Chambers are an institution, which has a hundred years' contribution to the retail economy. It's an institution that I supported a few years ago when I was at the Ministry of Trade with great passion. And indeed, they were working and operating properly. Evidence of this, for the Greek Chambers, at a recent conference, which has now been elected President in Europe, the President of the Central Union of Chambers of Chambers was elected as Deputy President in the European Chamber. So you realize that in Europe too we are doing so well. It is a hopeful part of the Greek economy. Minister, they are nine hundred thousands of businesses involved in the chambers. These enterprises support, especially in the province and Athens, the economy, the local, the general, the Greek economy. In other words, they provide high quality services and try to survive with growth and increased competitiveness and extroversion. So the chambers have achieved too much. Example: The reserve management of GFCF. GEMI managed to facilitate operations very much in their daily lives, saving from business and cost and time for them. It is the one-stop shop for investment licences, the development of remote digital signatures, information and support on outwards issues, the systematic - key - organisation of training programs for business executives. Therefore, the chambers are inextricably linked to business development and therefore to national development. Minister, what I want to do most is the third part of the draft law on trade. I'd say that for the mercenary trade, there should be an autonomous bill. And we could indeed, in consultation and with the consent of the parties, see how it can be dealt with. That's not how it's treated. Why am I saying that? Today from the parade trade, according to the OECD, Greece loses 7 to 10 billion a year. I will not tell you about the 2.5 billion lost by the oil smuggling that you would have caught. And see the numbers at the Ministry of Industry and the Ministry yours: In 2014, which I was responsible for, we did twenty-five and a half thousand checks. It's evidence recorded. The first seven months in 2017 you only did two and a half thousand checks. So you realize what's going on. "Get in dogs, algae." You realize where the smuggling goes. That's where you'd catch the 2.5 billion. And you haven't even caught a few million. So we really need to place a great deal of emphasis on the paramilitary trade and be able to build a mechanism that hits it. The OECD says that Greece is among the countries most involved in the trafficking of counterfeit products, and is therefore classified in the first positions of the European Union. In other words, we have a great impact on the economy with the circulated monkey products. Indeed, the OECD says that China is the leading producer of counterfeit products. In nine of the ten categories of products considered with our country it is the seventh economy of imitation origin with the greatest involvement in thousands of cases, such as clothes, glasses, photographic material, etc. So, Minister, it's an autonomous bill. I would tell you to see it again and to be able to do something about the smuggling. First of all, we are voting on the bill in principle with our reservations. But I would like to say that we are looking after you. When the New Democracy - and soon - becomes a government, we will see the plan. How does it work with the regions? Does this institution pay off? And we don't commit. If we keep him, we change him. We will see this in practice how this system works with the regions. I have also made a number of suggestions to the Standing Commission for some minor changes that we consider necessary. In Article 4, can a fellow company, rural, participate, get permission? I mean, he's taking the natural face, the cooperatives take, and I'm the one who in the village has a cowardly company or heterogeneous with agricultural products, I'm not supposed to. Take a look at this, Minister. It's Article 4. Article 17. Why, since everything is sold at the bazaars and at the fairs, do you exclude games? Should we have only "JUMBO"? Why can't he also have games to sell and electrical goods up to 1000 Watts? Look at that, too. It is Article 17, where we have reservations. The license is transferred. And after the licence has been transferred for three years, if the person who has taken the licence is retired or deceived, the licence will be valid for three years for the lawful beneficiary - son, brother or wife - and not to put his papers back on. It's a red tape. Look at that, too. On the day-to-day end: it must take care, as I have said before, of the prefecture of the well-being of the people's markets. I have tried to explain Article 37 very much. I got a dictionary, got Babiniotis's, got everyone to explain it. I couldn't understand it, Minister, nor is it compiling. What do you mean, 'Solidar Markets'? It says the article: 'Solid markets, citizens-consumers' collectives'. We do not understand this article. We know the markets without intermediaries. We are voting against this article completely. About the parks in Article 39. I told you next time: the little girl was killed in Greek. It's a mess. The lone-luffer-park doesn't have a license. It is the e.g. 12/2005 that goes to the Council of State and there is no framework, institutional or legal, so that they can obtain permission. That needs a change. You have the presidential decree. Under what decree, Mr. Minister, will the park be licensed? That's why some things need to be cleared up. It does not specify the Presidential Decree of 2005. Everyone is without permission, not only the parks, but also the other entertainment games. You really need to see this again. As far as criminal sanctions are concerned, you took Roma who sells carpets, pots, panties and you fine him if he doesn't have a license. You're right. But what do you want with imprisonment? Six months' imprisonment is a little tough. Put him on a fine. You're taking him to jail? What's gonna happen? That's tough. It doesn't show left sensitivity to imprisonment. It's cruelty too. The fine, yes, there is. In Article 59 there is a market that works and the municipality says - and well it does - "I repeal the festival in Kalamata". But I have my permission. So it stops and after six months the municipality says "I'm recurring a festivities". The license that applied when the festival was abolished continues to exist in the one who had it. Then we're talking about selfishness in the chambers. You tried - some changes you made - to make a state embrace in the chambers. Chambers are not financed by the Government or by 1 euro. They're autonomous organizations. So there, you are setting strict frameworks and I will tell you what these are. In Article 63, the establishment, abolition and merger of chambers must not be effected solely by a decision of the Minister, but with the agreement of the Central Association of Chambers of Greece. In agreement, not with an opinion, because otherwise I decide and order, I close, I open, I do what I want. It's not selfish. As regards Article 65, Chambers should act by way of derogation from the provisions relating to their property. Why? Acting in accordance with the applicable public law when the State pays and says 'the civil servant will take these expenses off the ground'. But, here it is private, it has nothing to do with it. In Article 67(1), you say ‘...the commercial and industrial distribution of their members...’. What are the trades and what are industrials? Make it clear in the bill which is industrial, commercial, which are services and exports. It's four objects. Clear it up. With regard to the Single Regulation, the Governing Council with a Presidential Decree, Minister, mercy. With a presidential decree, it will take two years and if it goes to the Council of State it will take another three years. To be with a ministerial decision. In order for the Minister to be able to intervene with regard to the rules governing his or her operation. Article 76 is what I told you. Routes and daily compensation, what are moving officials leaving the cliché of the texts. By decision of the Board of Directors, at the expense of paying the Chamber, we put a framework of between 300 and 1000 euros and the president's fees and everything else. You are right to say in Article 80 that there will be recruitment of up to 11 July to those who worked in the Chambers through the ADP. That's right. From there, though, shouldn't those who work eight to nine have molecules? Why are you stopping at four years? The other works eight to nine years. That's where he wants clean-up. You also say that up to thirty thousand members will be a secondman, while over thirty, two. We told you: Do it two and four. I don't understand. More than thirty thousand don't have two seconded or four? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, it is my dentistry. I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u10	Carry on, Mr. Comrade. You will, like Mr. Simorellis, have tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u11	It's okay. I don't share Simorellis. I'll use my dentistry time. In the notice you will make for chambers to be subject to the article and those working under an exclusive contract of work and regularly per month paid remuneration. They can be in, too. I will not talk to you about Article 107 and 108, which we are voting against. You know, we fought in '12 and '14, Minister, to make the online platform for public procurement. It's too bad. We have also created the independent authority - you believe in the independent authorities, then it was Mr Rajkos - and you are now abolishing the agreement. Withdrawal of the assent to a competition...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u12	We changed it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u13	Have you changed it? If you change it, we'll vote for it. You know, it's embarrassing...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u14	The minister's going to testify the legislature. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u15	Mr President, this is very important. Thousands of contests every year. I am pleased, Minister, if you have changed it. I reserve the vocabulary to vote for it, but in agreement only. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr. Yakumato. Before giving the floor to Mr Constantinople, the Minister has the floor for five minutes to present the legislative improvements. They'll testify, they'll be photographed, and they'll share with the colleagues. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u17	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law is an integrated proposal for the regulation of outdoor trade and the chamber of commerce. Unlike the recent past, this bill...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u18	Mr President, will the Minister now speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u19	Minister, I'm sorry. I was told that you would like to present the legislative improvements, not to make your speech, so I gave you the floor for five minutes. Of course, you have the right to intervene and make your central speech, but it is customary to do so after all the speakers speak. In other words, listen to the positions of all the parties and answer the whole question. Now, however, present the legislative improvements so that speakers will consider them later.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u20	Yes, sir. Following the examination of the proposals for counter-population and the relevant bodies, we are moving towards the following legislative improvements, which I am tabling today with the following changes. Firstly, we are expanding the possibility of supplementing the producer. Secondly, we regulate renewable permits for crops of less than one year. Thirdly, we are introducing the opinion of the Committees on the People's Markets for the allocation of the amounts of the daily fee. Fourthly, we are introducing the opinion of the relevant municipality on the expansion of popular markets operating in the Region of Attica and the metropolitan unit of Thessaloniki. Fifthly, we introduce a provision for the supply of mobile phones to the auditors of the people's markets. Six, we're escalating the duration of Christmas markets. Also, in the third part of the bill, we have tabled some realistic legislative improvements, including the deletion of Article 108(1) concerning the requirement of an opinion of the EFSA in order to adopt regulatory administrative acts, as well as improvements to the provisions relating to the public procurement law. So I am making the legislative improvements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u21	I would ask that they be photographed and distributed to my fellow Members. Mr Constantinople has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Today's bill has four axes, open-air trade, chambers, illegal trade, an issue concerning organisations and recruitment, and a third bill with a fifth pillar, which was tabled half an hour ago by the government, if I am not mistaken, concerning various issues, particularly the Ministry of Development, with five, seven, eight articles. I believe that no one has had the opportunity to see it, to read it, and I believe that we will all see it in the seconds. But let us see what the government brings - bearing in mind the changes that the Minister has put forward - what changes in rural trade and what is its logic. The government's logic in rural trade is to tell anyone who wants to be able to do folk. The most characteristic example is the people without mediators who were a gun of the government before the elections, and it proved to be during the process of hearing the bodies that not only go to producers there, but it is completely controlled and it does not create any conditions for quality control or tax control. So, what does the government do? It creates populace everywhere by making these people, producers or sellers, to have an allowance policy, that is to say, no cut for anyone. What does that mean? That means, yes, to those who we have used in previous years to show up on power, 'do what you want', but these producers and sellers who pay daily to the people and produce, we leave them and we are giving them a bonus that they themselves have told you there will be no share. So your logic is - and I understand that the New Democracy is voting for this - that everyone wants to have folk and not to compete, just to have an allowance for these people and, above all, for the producers. Secondly, in relation to the People's Markets Organization, we have accepted and said clearly that what happened with the previous law does not go any further, namely going to the regions. This means that regions are making a policy with the money of those who pay, that is to say producers and sellers. A characteristic example is Mrs Durou, where she campaigned a whole campaign giving 1 euro - quite rightly - and she did not say a single word about the fact that this is not from the periphery, but from the money paid back by people who go to the people. Unfortunately, you do not have the logic of changing this system which will enable the money they already have, to use it accordingly, without even having a majority in this new model. So we cannot vote for something that reduces income. There is a lack of transparency in quality control and tax control. As I have shown you, Minister, and I have tabled to you outside the bazaars and folk churches. Why don't you have the churches have and have folk after you've given everyone? I've filed photos for you. To make folk too, according to your logic, since everyone will make a great folk. So we can't vote for it. The second pillar concerns chambers. Minister, you are the only case where you have been dialogued for two and a half years to bring Chambers legislation and last week I asked you and the Secretary-General and you didn't know how many crosses you would put. You bring legal improvement to second reading where you say that after two and a half years the chambers will be able to know - which in twenty days will be elected - that they will be able to vote with three crosses. Congratulations! It was a very big achievement! Minister, you were just talking about analogy to the chambers. That's not just proportional. This is a majority that has nothing to do with it. I wonder, how are you going to make a simple analogue to local government or parliamentary elections, but in the chambers you want a majority? I told you and I'm telling you again: this is not a rousphetti for SYRIZA. This is a rousfetti grouping of the New Democracy and SYRIZA. You're doing this for them. Otherwise, you'd bring the simple analogue, as you'd committed two and a half years ago. So how can we vote on something - the three crosses - which you bring after two and a half years, after intense discussions and not on the simple analogue, which was your proposal? I wonder what it is that makes you a majority here, but in local government on a simple analogue basis. As regards the rest of the Chambers, you are reducing the number of members of the ballot and women from 1/3 to 1/3 of the total number of candidates. In other words, something you were looking for two and a half years, you did it at second reading. The third issue is the illegal trade. I think this is the ultimate baptism. You've done absolutely nothing. It's not really going to work, and you know it yourself. You just change the names. I wish it would work, but it won't work. The bill - and it makes me a terrible impression that the Qualified Opposition will vote for it - has four topics. I begin with the OBI, where the rapporteur of the New Democracy said he would vote. I wonder what we're voting for in the OBI. What do we vote on this provision, Minister? We vote that everything is going. There is no control over an Agency that was under the supervision of the General Secretariat of Industry and now supervision goes directly to the relevant Minister. For what? Do you know, colleagues of SYRIZA, what OBI means, where the disagreement has been and what makes the government change all this today? Was 2015 prosecuted to the degree of the prosecutor's felony, as was the case with the previous government? That is why I am impressed by what the New Democracy is voting for. It was the only organization that failed to accept any reduction in wages. He was the only organization that failed to accept any reduction in wages, as did all other employees! There is a specific report on this. And that's why he went to court. Didn't you appoint Mr. Macaronas and Mr. Polyzogopoulos, whom you expelled after having gone to the Council of State in 2015? Minister, why don't you bring us to testify to the OBI balance sheets, where aren't there publicly? Why don't you bring them in? Do you accept that there are no reductions in SYRIZA and New Democracy, as there were reductions in all other agencies? Secondly, we are glad that you are changing - it was our request - what you had brought to the bill on public procurement. It's very important that you understood that he can't move on and it's wrong. We go to Article 101, which regulates the staff issues of the "Greek Investment Company and Foreign Trade S.A.", "ENTERPRISE GREECE", ex OPE and "INVEST IN GREECE" by preparing recruitments. What does the layout say? He says there's gonna be dozens of recruits. The interview I told you - the Qualifications will see and the other parties - substantially alter the outcome of the AACC table. And not only that, but the interview is held in retrospectively, there is no objection - the law states that there can be no objection - and the final control of legality, Minister, does not make him the ASP. Based on your law, the board of directors of the company makes him. Will you vote for that, colleagues? Will you vote for it? Special Debt Management Secretariat: A hundred and fifteen new posts are recommended instead of seventy new ones, so thirty-six new recruitments.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u23	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u24	If, Mr Yakumato, you believe that thirty-six new recruitments can be made without an APA, your right to do so. We don't believe in that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u25	It's done with S.H.I.E.L.D.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u26	It can't be done. Take a look at it, please. The Special Debt Management Secretariat...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u27	They're distracted, aren't they?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u28	No, they're not distracted. And I'll tell you why they're not distracted, Mr. Yakumato. Based on the law that the New Democracy has passed, if there is to be secondment or transfers, there is no need to establish organic positions, because they leave one body and go to the other organisation. Therefore, there is no need to set up new organic positions based on the law of Mr. Mitsotakis. Well, since new positions are being introduced...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u29	Transitions are needed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u30	Transitions are another thing. It says here 'new positions are being introduced'. So, based on the law that Mr Mitsotakis has passed, there is no need to introduce new jobs, just to make password transfers. However, the game here is that no one will be asked to go to transfers and secondments and there will be young people, thirty-five, to the Private Debt Management Agency, as was the case with the ninety-five. That's the reality. Article 104 concerns the Consumers' Counsellor. This is the case: it turns scientific staff, which I think the Consumers' Counsel - which is why it is the Consumers' Counsel - is making a driver. I mean, we're turning a postgraduate degree into a driver because someone has to be a driver. Tell me, does the Consumer Counsel need a driver? I'm asking you. Do you need any administrative or extra employees? So we, Minister, are not asking you not to recruit, but to do so on the basis of the rules. It cannot decide and validate the final list of recruits by the Board of Directors rather than by the AACC. There can be no interview after the painting goes to the ASP and then the interview changes the data and does not go to the end. We, of course, disagree with the interview. I don't understand why there has to be. But can an interview change the criteria? How do you accept that? Why can't the final painting go to the ADP and there's a right to object? Why can't there be no right to object? So, ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of the logic that governs all four pillars of the bill, which are about to do with a policy, transparency and a lack of control over the whole process and with the proposals we have put forward where most of you have not accepted them, we will vote against the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u31	I too, Mr. Constantinople. We are moving with our special speaker from Golden Dawn Mr. Ioannis Shahinides. Here, Mr. Shahinides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. You have raised the word'solidarity' in science as co-government. It makes us a terrible impression that there is no draft law, there is no amendment in which this word is not included. But the point is why you are using it. You have been impoverished, impoverished, sold out everything, so that you can have an object on which you can base your leftism, a leftlessness that New Democracy has adopted because it sees that it is selling. So what are you doing? As I said, you have poorly impoverished and impoverished the Greek people and you are coming to legislate, putting the word'solidarity' everywhere. But what's wrong with that? I shall mention it in Articles 19 and 37. What we heard from the institutions was the universal requirement for a re-establishment of the organisation that was abolished in 2014. If you wish, bring with ministerial amendment, Minister, the organization's re-establishment, and we as Golden Dawn promise that we will vote for it rather than with tricks and terminology, after your visit to America - the Prime Minister - and the Americans you have learned with the good and bad officer to table parliamentary amendments, which are not accepted, in order to have an excuse to your constituent public, to say 'We did not want to, but we wanted'. What exactly is going on? I have in my hands the memorandum from the Panhellenic Federation of Farm Markets Associations, which we fully support. What's he saying? The Organizations of the People's Markets of Attica and Thessaloniki were abolished for no reason and cause. These bodies, as they were known, were economically independent of the state budget and did not even charge the Greek taxpayer a euro. In fact, by transferring the responsibilities of the people's markets to the regions, a large volume of additional work has been transferred to them by Law 4264/2014 - that is to say, in the regions which are unable to manage, so that there is additional malfunction on the people's markets and an ineffective one. With regard to the ‘day-to-day remuneration’. The 'daily-right' for eighty years, Minister, has only been done by producers on the days they came to the public markets. The new law obliges them to pay a right, they come to the folk for all the days on the licence and up to 80% every month. However, this does not correspond to the nature of the producer, who faces weather and growing adversities. They must therefore only give entitlement to the days they come. With regard to the daily fee and the reward, there is a mention of the fact that by abolishing the People's Markets Organizations their reserves, which were 16 million for Attica and 5 million euros for Thessaloniki, were transferred to a special account of the regions. However, the work carried out on behalf of the people's markets is inversely proportional to those amounts. There is a proverb to our people, that "at the house of the hanger we are not talking about rope". We have already heard from the PASOK rapporteur a reference to this amount. Why do you not mention the 11 million euros - I told the committees and did not mention it - lost to Mr Venizelos from the PSA people's reserve? Have you really done anything to see what happened with it? It is also stated that in case - and this should be taken very seriously into account, Minister - the sums that remain in the regional accounts and are not available for three years should be returned to those who have paid them, namely the sellers. A proper request is, furthermore, the transfer of the licence referred to in Article 23. In Article 23, there is a provision where it says that the right to transfer the licence exists only in the case of the death of the holder or in the case of a disability of 67%. It is a constant request for people's markets to be able to transfer this licence to the first degree relatives, not as referred to in the same Article in paragraph 3, but fully and fully through. Because it cannot be a man who has invested and built a business, has bought a car to transport his goods to the people's, has made benches, has invested in merchandise, not being able to transfer it to his children. It's incomprehensible. I shall now refer to Rule 19. In this particular article, paragraph (e) is obscured and I will explain why, Minister. There is a provision, which essentially opens the door to permit people's markets to illegal immigrants, because exactly in paragraph (e) there is the diagnosing "or" and states, "persons living in camps or Roma". So, what's going on? Would you like to give, Minister, permission to illegal immigrants? Let's move on to Article 37. There is a different, negative situation here with regard to the proposed provisions, in particular those relating to the licensing of outdoor trade, but also to the introduction of the consumer market institution. So, as I mentioned before - if there was no solidarity and collectiveness, you would have no reason to exist on the Left - which could create outdoor markets, according to the proposed consumer market institution. The aim of these markets is to develop solidarity through the active participation of citizens in voluntary actions and non-profit organisations. Really, so unselfish? How is that possible? Tell me and explain. In fact, we also asked the operators who had come for these markets, and their answer was that these producers do not have access to the people's markets. Why not allow these producers to have access to the people's markets so that they can afford their products at a much lower price - which will also benefit consumers - and in the middle will the solidarityrs, who will have some cost for keeping goods, who will have some costs to rent spaces which will have some costs to move and go to the people's. You are not convinced that there is so much unselfish right now on the left. There is no commercial activity, which cannot be profitable. People who deal with trade make it bio-report. You come in front of solidarity, after you have been poor and impoverished, as I have said repeatedly, the Greek people, you want to impose solidarity on the patterns of Bolshevikism. That's not gonna pass. This market will therefore only be organised on the initiative of citizens - consumers and cooperatives - consumers and social cooperatives and citizens' organisations with legal status. One of the main conditions for operators who will submit a request for a consumer market is their intention not to be profitable, but to aim at solidarity with citizens who face difficulties for their survival regardless of sex, age, nationality, disability, belief, sexual orientation and any form of discrimination. Discrimination even on the folk licenses? The other proposed arrangements include the conditions for granting and renewing authorisations for outdoor trade, glossary or grassroots, and therefore supporting documents certifying the status, especially of producers. People belonging to these special population groups are given the opportunity to become economically active, taking leave of outdoor commercial activities, through a licensing system, which will take account of the main social criteria. With these provisions of the proposed Article 37, you are, in fact, opening up entry to economic activity and illegal immigrants, as I mentioned before, under the cloak of vulnerable groups and reasonings and solidarity citizens. This is where the establishment of the markets is introduced and the operators of the markets are designated. Participants and the way in which these considerations can be carried out will be able to create open markets, as provided for in the proposed provision of the consumer markets, which, as I said before, are the development of consumer consciousness and solidarity. But let us go to Article 19, which I mentioned. It gave me a terrible impression that at the hearing of the bodies, where while calling for two different representatives of the Roma, none of them spoke, because it appears that the text which was read by the chairman of the committee was certainly not written by the Roma, as was the case with the others who were present in the committee. They were represented by the Secretariat of the Ministry of Interior for the Roma. I asked this body whether the permits given to them should be given in proportion to their population, which means that the three hundred thousand Roma, who live and are Greek citizens in Greece, should be in proportion to 2.7%. When this body replied, it explained that the licence only covers ten thousand of the three hundred. So, what should be done proportionately, Minister? To reduce 2.7% and go to 0.02% if there is equality and parity in that country. Sadly, however, you don't work that way. By what provisions of Article 14, which provided for the percentages to be applied in proportion to the licensing of the people's markets, a 15% expressly provided for it to go to the third parties - polytectures, a 5% to the deportees, a 7% to the Roma - and the draft law, which you bring to 19, is a salamification of all of them. In fact, in the first category, which covers 60% of these permits, they have 100% access, Minister, to all the Roma who apply. Do you know why? Because if the molecules work together - you tell me one of the Roma, who is not a breacher, has not been released, is not a tenant, is not a drug user - in proportion to the majority of them, the Roma will have access to these permits. And this is not a fragile team. Lifestyle is their choice, Minister. Sensitive groups are people with disabilities. Sensitive is someone who has been poor and not someone who has made a lifestyle of this poorness, because it systematically avoids taxing the Greek state and having access. In fact, yesterday, there was also a broadcast on Greek television, where they themselves defined themselves as gypsies and not Roma and said, "we live with the benefits." Give the motives to join. But this really is not an attempt to join them. The social exclusion, which you invoke, is clearly their own decision. With regard to Article 110, which was Amendment Nos 1313 and 17, this is where the Certified Patent Adviser is introducing the right to present or submit documents before the OBI. The OBI is provided with the possibility to draw up programme agreements with international organisations, Higher Education Institutions of Greece and abroad or other bodies for the preparation and training of patent advisers. The Organization of Industrial Property, which exists in Greece, aims, on the basis of the Greek Law 1733/1987, to protect the country's technological and economic development by protecting patents for a limited period, as is the case in all civilized and developed countries worldwide. That's a lie and I'll tell you why, Minister. We have been presented with a memorandum from Mr Varrela Georgios, who had set up a company in the name of his sister, Mrs Varrela Georgia, and man writes that by decision of the Ice Bay they have cancelled his patent - which I will submit in the Minutes - under number 1004838. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Sahinides, presents for the minutes the above patent, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] They punished the Greek inventor - the holder of the above diploma with a financial penalty, putting a lock on his business. They gave his patent replicators, fearlessly now, Minister, to continue what they had been banned by nine judges in four trials, which had taken precedence in the country's first instances. The absurdity you know what it is, Minister? That they gave the right to a Turkish company, which had replicated Mr Varrela's patenting, to import the product freely into Greece and not to take into account the decision of the Polymenis First Chamber of Thessaloniki, which effectively prohibited the manufacture and import of the product to Greece. But listen to the absurd and you and your staff, Minister. The reasoning behind the cancellation of the patent was as follows: "Your invention gives you a solution to a technical problem, unresolved for centuries, but is a low inventional activity". [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Thirty seconds, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u33	Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u34	And he notes from below: "Please and I challenge anyone who can, prove and substantiate that there is a rating of inventions in low, medium and high, and that there is this condition in Law 1733/1987, as well as worldwide for patenting." I am tabling the letter from Mr Varrela Georgios, as I state the sworn statement - because it has been sent to us by his sister on the rulings of the courts. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Sahinides, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As I said in my introduction to the beginning, you are trying to legislate, you are trying to present that something you are doing, you have promoted solidarity in the field of science - if not in the whole of science - but the evil is that those who claim to go out and govern the country, they have copyed you, they use solidarity, and we do not know whether they have become more left-wing than you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u35	Nicholas Moraitis, a special speaker from the Communist Party of Greece, will now be given the floor. Then I will give the floor for five minutes to the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development, Mr Haritsis, in order to support an amendment which you have in your hands, because it must be in a meeting at the Maximos Mansion at 15.00. We will continue with Mr. Lazarides, Georgiadis and Amyras. Mr Mauritius, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. And with this bill, SYRIZA - ANEL, and also with the squeeze of other urban parties, aims to disorientate poor, self-employed, unemployed from the major problems they are experiencing. The main thing, however, is that you want to hide the causes that create them, which are not other than the capitalist way of production, where they are the head of profit and not the people's needs. The tools of this policy are the CAP, the agreements between imperialist organisations. Urban parties are demagogic when they talk about the great importance of primary production, the need for productive reconstruction, to overthrow the productive model. You want to create illusions, expectations that can within the "supply" system, which is defined and subject to capitalist gain, to find solutions for the small- and medium-sized farm farmer, for the self-employed, for the people's consumption. With the bill that the government is discussing, it is attempting to rationalise the legislative framework, the terms and rules of operation of non-hazardous outdoor commercial activities. You are aiming at this legislation in collecting the garlic legislation, which has been in force so far. Some improvements are made, such as fine reductions and others, but the reactionary direction does not change, because you maintain all the negative arrangements of previous N.4264/2014. The big words you use in the Report are words of air, namely, that outdoor trade will become a solid pillar of the development of the modern economy, that it will be a prerequisite for social prosperity and progress. Make a good wrapping in the well - known tale of the evangelizing righteous development. Your nerve, however, has no limits. You say all this when the small and medium-sized producers, the workers, the self-employed, the unemployed have been kneeled by your anti-popular policy. They are sinking into tolerance, unemployment, you are leading them to extreme poverty, impoverishment, and then you are giving them a rugged piece through bloody surpluses. So you take them from the poor to give them to the impoverished. You say that you will place order on the market, that you will face up to the distortions of the past, that producers will be able to improve their income, that they will get out of the middle of the middle, and that they will get to the consumption of cheap, healthy food. But what do you not say to poor medium-sized farmers, farmers, fishermen, microprofessionals, self-employed? That their income is crushed within the great cost of production, in the expensive supplies, fertilizers, seeds, feed and machinery, through tax-pays from the first euro, the carpets of ENPIA, ELGA, insurance contributions, expensive agricultural current, expensive agricultural oil, that leaves them no margin of survival and is forced to compress the prices of their products to stand against the products of capitalist rural enterprises. But they're lost by hand. Within this process, the largest funds available to these enterprises will displace small producers, as large capitalist rural units, where productivity is comparatively much larger, have the potential, because of greater production, to buy cheaper agricultural means, to have less costs, while most of the subsidies are received. Thus, they promote their products on better terms. This is objective in today's development path, which supports the great capitalist production and the large unit in agricultural production. In order to do this, however, it is dismantled, poor medium-sized farms, the self-employed. That is what the Prime Minister says, the government officials, where they are in the countryside, at your regional, development conferences, which are overflowing with mocking. You said it in Thessaly, in Epirus, in Crete, in all rural areas. You clearly said that they must become businessmen to survive. You have the recipes for humanising capitalism, for everyone to win, for big capitalist rural businesses and small and medium-sized producers, for big chains of supermarkets and small and self-employed people. This is the dirty work you do, which is why you have the support of the institutions, of the local capital. You're doing very well. What else is the government doing with the bill we're talking about? It seeks to develop illusions that the people's family, whose average income has been devastated over 30% in recent years, which has been forced to cut costs, even from basic nutritional needs of its children, will allegedly be able to find a way out of rationalisation and the development of new forms of outdoor markets. The problem of the people's family is not of a spatial nature or of accessibility to the necessary, but of the totalitarian attack, which the current government itself is firing against it, the constant decline in its income, the robbery of taxation, the working middle-ages that prevail everywhere. It has to do with the expansion and domination of monopolies, which, in the name of ensuring maximum profit, do not account for the needs of the working class and the widest popular strata. They do not account for their needs for access to cheap and quality foods and other types of first need. This cannot be dealt with in the existing conditions of the capitalist economy. Moreover, if the government wants to give a small breath to the problems of the people's family, it must adopt the JRC's proposal to abolish VAT on basic food and public consumption. All this confirms and the elements of the urban state, the European Union, which exist both in IOVE and in ELSTAT and in Eurostat, which clearly demonstrate that large parts of the population do not consume the absolutely essential kinds of basic food, such as milk, meat, fish, fruit, etc. And all this happens in a country that has the productive potential to feed its people. But that is not just the problem. At a time when, especially in food trade, the concentration of the market is rapidly moving from a handful of chains and supermarkets, it is a mockery on the part of the government, which has broken with its policy of producers, professionals, continuing from where the previous governments have stopped, to speak of substantial support for them by improving certain rules of operation. This is all a burden, when over half of the income of the self-employed, producers and professionals is paid to taxes, insurance contributions, for the government to speak about their support through specific legislation. If the government really wants to help here and now, to reinstate individual tax at 12,000 euros, increased by 3,000 euros per child, and to be directly integrated into it by professionals, sellers and any other self-employed, to abolish tolls, oil tax, which has launched production costs and the transport of products for professionals. You have tax-free oil for shipowners, but you do not have the tractors for farmers, for producers' cars, for small merchants, to carry their products. Even more provocative, but also dangerous, is the propaganda of the government, aimed at hundreds of thousands of unemployed and other workers, who are in a bad economic situation, through the proposal to establish consumer markets. It's a big lie. You want to sum up, hide the bourgeois responsibilities for the deadlocks, which are located in these parts of the populace. We call on the working class, the unemployed, the bio-producers and professional sellers to reject the new variant of the government's well-known account of sustainable, fair development, how much more so when she does not have time to convene the congratulations of the settlement and implementation of all kinds of requirements of big capital, in order to ensure profitability in the current conditions of exit from the crisis, but also tomorrow in anaemic growth. As much as some of these legislations deal with some of the existing problems, mainly related to the rules on the operation of existing people's markets or give some temporary breaths, by limiting the amount of fines, these are not enough to deal with the accumulated problems of professionals, producers active in these markets. Now, going to the second part of the bill, concerning the chambers, we have also stressed in the debate on the committees that the chambers have been the strap, the vehicle for the passage of anti-grassroots politicians over the years. They never supported the request of a small professional self-employed. They were only given days and disorientation seminars, and in fact they were a mechanism to promote and support governmental, Euro-Union policy. They slandered the games. They tried every way to fade every voice of resistance. They adopted every idea for the poor payers, tax-gunmen, the paramilitary trade. They called for measures to limit the demonstrations, strikes, adopting the arguments of governments, large-scale industrialists and bankers, that the struggles allegedly deregulation the market and prosecute customers from shops, like customers, the popular strata are not victims of the same barbaric, anti-population policy. The chambers all these years have been practicing, hiding the truth and saying that it is because of the destruction of small and medium-sized enterprises that it is the market distortions and not the capitalist system, where it is the primary profit and where the norm is the big fish eating the small one. The aim of the Chambers was and is to integrate thousands of self-employed persons into urban planning, in their consent to state policy, with expectations that through their participation in chambers they could secure their own interests. You say that the growth of large capital goes hand in hand - together with the interests of small producers, the self-employed. Another proof is that, in the hearing of bodies, where representatives are called, Mr Michalos, who, on the one hand, is supposedly concerned about the proper functioning of the market, his interview and his committees too, stressed that employers' social security contributions should be reduced further, that flexible forms of work should be extended, that there should be an increase in employment. The very same thing was said by the Association of Greek Industrialists. Governments have done this for years, thus losing the insurance funds 1,3 billion euros a year, genuinely taking avalanche forms of employment and having conditions of fame in every workplace. Despite minor changes, such as the introduction of the quota to the participation of women in the management boards, it remains the reactionary nature of the bill, while women are the victims of the barbaric memorial policy and are faced with an endless list of barbaric measures that experience them both in the business and in the home, in their family. And the current government, taking the baton from the previous ones, continues anti-grass policy to the detriment of women. In the name of gender equality, it maintains an unacceptable equalisation of the retirement ages of men and women. We have towels on social costs to support maternity. The third assessment is coming and we will have a further contraction of benefits. We have thousands of children living outside the nurseries, while the education of the children of the people's family is becoming more and more expensive, becoming a mere commodity for it. Anti-grass measures have no stopping. On the substance of the matter, we have abolished Sunday's holidays, the liberalisation of working hours, the closed professions and all that to save warm money for tax exemptions, the subsidies for large capital. All this has brought locks to over two hundred and fifty thousand small businesses and thousands even right now - it is within the limits of bankruptcy and on these ruins the government is coming to talk about fair growth. It must be clean for the small-professionals, for the workers, for the small producers that this development will also be paid for, as they themselves have paid for the crisis, so that the profits of capital remain unstoppable. In the face of these deadlocks, there is a solution and it is the political proposal of the Communist Party of Greece for labour power and the organization of the economy on the basis of popular needs on the ground of the socialised means of production, definitively abolishing capitalist profit. It is the only one who can adequately meet the nutritional needs of the working class and the people's family, to ensure access to cheap and quality products at the same time. By organising the central planning of a respective national distribution network of goods and products, the needs of the people's family can be resolved and met through access to these food products and others. Unemployment, which is inherent in the capitalist way of production itself, can be permanently combated. In this context, the needs of bio-producers, through the development of the respective network of productive cooperatives, which is linked to the central state mechanism, can also face issues of product production and disposal either through the state mechanism or through the disposal of part of the products on the state-owned markets, thereby ensuring a decent income and human working conditions. Similarly, for professionals, a stable job will be provided, directly socialised production and distribution where decent income, stable and human working hours can be provided, access to high-level health services, education, culture and rest. The brink of endless debts and deadlocks, which are constantly reproduced in the current conditions of economic and political sovereignty of monopolies, will be dealt with. We are voting against the bill in principle. We shall be placed in our dentext for the articles and some of the amendments that exist.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, twenty-eight students and students and three educational attendants from the Kaparelli Boeotia Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Haritsis has the floor to analyse the amendment. Tell the general and specific number of the amendment, Mr Minister, to know what you are talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u38	Thank you very much, Mr President. With this amendment, we are introducing rules concerning the smooth operation of the Public Investment Programme into the draft law. In particular, the first provision provides for the possibility and definition of the procedure for the establishment of specific development programmes, specific programmes, at the initiative of the Ministry of Economy. From the current legislative framework for the Public Investment Programme, this provision has so far been lacking. This regulation, therefore, mainly introduces legal certainty. The second provision introduces a number of technical regulations, particularly with regard to the Public Investment Programme and the ESDP. In particular, Article 13 of Law No4314/2014 on the NSRP shall be supplemented, as regards the possibility of nomination of an intermediate management body. As currently foreseen for integrated spatial investment, the same provision should be made for local development measures on the initiative of local communities. Secondly, provision is made for the possibility of defining the managing authority of the Operational Programme for the Development of Human Resources as an intermediate management body and for entrepreneurship programmes to facilitate the management of actions of the European Social Fund. Thirdly, a regulation is introduced which provides that, in the context of the implementation of projects financed, they may be repaid at the cost of either the national or the co-financed part of the Public Investment Programme, depending on the financial possibilities involved. This regulation therefore speeds up the payment of outstanding commitments and commitments already undertaken by the Greek State, and that is, of course, for the benefit of both public and business. Fourthly, the provision, already in place for the evaluation of workers at the NSRP Special Services by introducing the targeting regulation, as is the case for the rest of the public, is complemented in order to proceed with the evaluation process in these Special Services as well. Fifthly, the provision concerning the control system for the Connecting Europe Facility is abolished for reasons of good and proper legislation since there is a specific and complete control framework under European law. Sixth, it is foreseen that the managing authorities of Regional Operational Programmes can now undertake tasks for the implementation of funding arising from the European Union Solidarity Fund in cases of natural disasters. This decentralises the relevant system and financing procedures from the Solidarity Fund and gives the regions or their managing authorities a more important role in these programmes. Seventh, for this provision, the provisions for the recovery of recycled resources from the previous ESRB programming period shall be supplemented. We are talking about tools such as the Entrepreneurship Fund and the Intermediate "Security", so that there is a need for flexibility in order to be burdened either by the national or co-financed part of the Public Investment Programme. Furthermore, with the third provision of this amendment, there is a very important time-consuming problem with due obligations of the public to public limited companies, such as the 'ATTIMERO', the 'ERGOSE', the 'ENGOSTIA', obligations, which have arisen over decades, I would say, since we are talking about projects co-financed, which are already coming from the third Community Support Framework for the period 2000-2006. It is therefore possible, by means of this regulation, to use the resources of the co-financed part of the Public Investment Programme in order to meet these obligations. In this way, the possibility for these bodies to implement projects in the new programming period is also strengthened. An earlier arrangement for subsidising the concessionaire of the concession agreement "Study - Construction - Conservation and Operation of the Project "Korinthos - Tripoli - Kalamata and the Leuktro - Sparta Division" is supplemented by the fourth provision, so that the co-financed section can also be charged. We are talking about obligations resulting from the concession contracts ratified by law in 2007, while the second regulation of this provision allows for the choice of either the national or the co-financed part of the Public Investment Programme for the repayment of any additional work, also resulting from the original concessions in 2007. Finally, the fifth provision of this amendment regulates an outstanding one in relation to the setting up and remuneration of evaluators and advisory committees for the "ICT4GROWTH" action, within the limits allowed, so as to complete the process of repayment of these projects more quickly. Therefore, all of these provisions concern the greater flexibility of the Public Investment Programme, co-financed and national, for the repayment of outstanding public obligations, so that these obligations can be closed as soon as possible, that there are no loose ends and no additional burdens are created for the State, with interest resulting from such late payment procedures and also from the companies involved in these contracts. To conclude, an overall comment will allow me to make: The institutional framework for the Public Investment Programme is based on 1955 legislation. I think that every reasonable man understands that such an institutional framework cannot meet the current conditions. That is why it is a legislative initiative of our Ministry, in the next few months, to move forward with a comprehensive regulation which will reform and modernise the current framework for the Public Investment Programme. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u39	In order for colleagues to know, the amendment tabled by the Minister is the general number 1336 and specialist number 22. We are now moving on to the special speaker of the Independent Greeks, George Lazarides. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law to be discussed and voted is an important draft law consisting of three separate parts: Part I contains an integrated proposal for the functioning of rural trade. Part II focuses on the modernisation of the Chamber of Commerce and Part III contains a number of provisions of the Ministry of Economy to combat counterfeiting, the operation of the Special Secretariat for the Management of Private Debts and other provisions and amendments. We have listened with great interest to the bodies involved in the consultation of the bill to admit that many of the proposals, which were submitted at times, have been included in the draft law. The draft law before us provides for, to a fairly satisfactory extent, regulations and changes which have become necessary for outdoor trade, with the aim of setting rules, not only in the area of the people's markets of stagnation and the world trade, but also in fairs, Sundays, Christmas and Easter markets, and even in mobile cantins. For the first time, therefore, all types of outdoor commercial activity are introduced into single legislation, by recording them in an integrated information system, in which all the data will be recorded, and by establishing a complete electronic recording of commercial actions, and by making the licensing process simpler and control simpler. For the first time, the obligation is introduced for the operators of the people's markets to draw up a rules of operation and a topographic chart for each of the people's markets, which operates on their administrative limits, with reference to the working hours, the regulation, the distribution of seats and the daily fee, which is clearly in the right direction. With regard to licences, there are several socially sensitive and innovative arrangements in the bill. Consumer markets, the so-called'markets without intermediaries', are being established. These markets are allowed to organise consumer associations, social cooperatives, the COMECF, as well as a number of collective vendors, consumers, which are not profitable. It is also allowed to become bankrupt - important - to request the granting of a one-year licence and a place on a popular market for the sale of indisposed items by the holding company. The licence may not be reviewed or converted into a countrywide trade licence. A molecular system for the distribution and placement of sellers is set up at the empty positions of the people's markets. Cooperatives are the priority, and in the event of equal grades, criteria such as the degree of infringibility, the number of members, the history of the licence are considered. A very important provision is that it has 60% of commercial sales licenses in special groups of people. The remaining 40% are granted to unemployed persons. In these cases, too, an income-based moleculation system is applied. In particular, through the draft law, as stated in the explanatory memorandum, it is possible for a significant part of the population, with emphasis on specific groups, to become economically active through outdoor commercial activities. Article 19 states that the persons concerned must be unemployed from there on and after 60% of rural trade permits are granted to the specific categories of the population. In other words, for people with disabilities, from at least 50% of any reason, in multitasks and children, in third countries, in parents - guardians of minors with disabilities and in parents who protect people with mental disability, autism, downward syndrome, brain paralysis, heavy and multiple disabilities and dependency needs, in Greek Roma enrolled in the population of the local authorities of the country, in people who are dependent on addictive substances, in single-parent families protectors, in detained for a long time and the remaining 40% in unemployed. We also see provisions and modifications to the scheme for the licensing of farmers for agricultural products on the people's markets and on the other sides of trade, while a producer's licence can be obtained, apart from professional farmers, agricultural and women's cooperatives, producer groups and organisations. Very important regulation is that self-representation on the people's markets is abolished, since the producer is replaced by the spouse or children. From now on, the producer will be able to make up for his or her spouse or children, if they do not hold a licence for outdoor trade, by simply stating the persons concerned to the competent authority and by submitting a certificate of family status. As far as the Chambers are concerned, this draft law aims to put the terms of the Chambers on a proper footing and to heal a series of malfunctions and problems in this institution. In the first Articles, the purpose of the Chambers, which is to protect and develop trade, industry, crafts, professions and every sector of the economy, which, in accordance with the interests and objectives of the national economy, are to provide as consultants of the State with substantiated opinions and information on each economic issue. The disciplinary boards, which are a proposal and the Central Union of Chambers, with the participation of both employees and administration, are hereby established, and for the first time provisions on the disciplinary responsibility of Chambers and the Central Union of Chambers are laid down. In general, the institutional framework is being modernised in order to make it central to the development of the country's economy. As regards the bill as a whole, for the first time a comprehensive and harmonised framework is established for all the activities of rural trade in order to operate in line with housed trade, for the benefit of the national economy, for the producers or professionals involved in rural trade, but mainly for the benefit of consumers. The Independent Greeks support the new legislative framework. Now, because I have time left, I would like to talk about two amendments that I have tabled. The first amendment is general number 1333, and specific number 20. You know, with Law 4264/2014, the PASOK-New Democracy rule abolished the Laika Markets Organisations in Thessaloniki and Athens and passed them in the administration of the regions. This has resulted in numerous problems. In fact, there was nothing on the people's markets and it was a constant request from those involved in the people's markets that we should return to the former regime. If you wish, with this amendment, we also have a commitment, a promise that we have made to these people that we will abolish Law 4264 and restore the Laeken Market Organisations. People's markets, as long as they acted as organizations and had the self-employed, did not at all burden the state budget. They were self-financed and with this daily fee, this daily right paid by the people's market participants, had the possibility and covered all operating expenses. Not only that, but a very large sum had been raised as a reserve.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u41	Twelve million.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u42	Don't rush, Mr. Comrade. I am, however, pleased, Mr Colleague, that you have truly recognised the mistake you have made both by the New Democracy and by the PASOK.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u43	We were wrong?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u44	Sure. The n. 4264 who voted for him? Who brought him in and voted for him? You voted for him.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u45	Did I say it was wrong?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u46	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u47	We voted for him. But did I say it was wrong?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u48	The New Democracy. Your Vice-President, Mr. Georgiadis, has admitted that many times.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u49	I'm talking about the New Democracy, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u50	And by television he admitted it from everywhere and even, he promised yesterday...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u51	Mr. Lazarides, not dialogue. You will be presenting your amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u52	I'm not having a dialogue, Mr. President. Answer me. He asked a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u53	How do you not do? In front of my eyes, you make him. Are you going to drive me crazy?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u54	Okay. I'm on it. In any case, this was recognised by many as a mistake of the then coexistence and we are now coming with this amendment tabled by the Independent Greeks - I tabled it yesterday as a Member of the Independent Greeks - and we are trying to bring back to the previous regime, because what Mr 4264 promised at the time is going to be the case, in the end, has gone for a walk. There's nothing working on the people's markets. There are no chemical toilets, no monitors especially on Saturdays, to supervise the operation of popular markets. Not even demolition can be done. In fact, I was recently complained by the people's market participants in Thessaloniki that they were invited to make money to write off about how the benches would be placed. If that's possible! People on the people's markets in Thessaloniki vanished and say there must be eight million as a reserve. There's nothing. These can't be found. Eight million should have been in Thessaloniki and twelve in Athens. There aren't any of these. With this amendment, then, we are trying to give a radical solution to this problem of the people's markets. Our proposal is the re-establishment, in the form of public limited companies, where 51% will be owned by the public and 49% by the holders of public purchasing licences. It will be the Minister of Economy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u55	Then why did you sign for yourself and don't sign your party?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u56	Why are you in a hurry, Mr. Yakumato? Previously, the President made an observation. Do you want to have a dialogue? If the President allows it, we shall have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u57	I won't allow it. Mr. Yakumato, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u58	Otherwise you'll be patient, you'll be placed in your dentistry, and I'll answer you again in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u59	Good. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u60	I see your signature, Mr. Comrade. He says it himself, he signs it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u61	I would like time to be retained, Mr President, because you see there are many interventions. We are analyzing in our amendment and what has to do with share capital and so on. The second amendment I tabled today is the general number 1335 and with a special number 21, which exempts businesses, which were included in the 2004 development programmes, namely Law 3299/2004 and Law 3908/2011, from the obligation to pay commissions and charges for the guarantee letters. In these development laws, there was no provision for a businessman to be able to do so, if for reasons of force majeure he did not implement the investment, in this programme where he joined, in these laws, to return the money voluntarily rather than to intervene the state and see that he took some money or in any case took the advance and did not do so. For reasons of force majeure, floods, earthquakes, fires etc - we had many such phenomena - there was no prediction and people could not return the money. A year ago, I had brought an amendment and made it possible for these people to return the money back, without any charge, without any penalty. We are, however, coming now and we are saying that for this money that people have taken to make investments they have lodged a letter of guarantee. For this guarantee letter they were asked to pay commissions and various costs to the banks. However, we say that once this money is returned, that is, the purpose for which the guarantee letter has been issued is not to be implemented, it is unfair that these people should be charged with expenses and various supplies. That is exactly what we are describing in the amendment and we are calling for these people to be exempted. Minister, I also mentioned to the committees and asked for a legislative improvement concerning Mr.4264/2014 in Article 16, where he says: "Natural persons, professionals of the people's markets can hire employees if they have previously been..." etc. I have asked here for an amendment, so that natural persons, professional people's market operators or sellers of outdoor or on-site trade, in accordance with Article 26(2) of the same law, may hire employees. In other words, those involved in rural trade - seasonal and so on. - to be able to hire. Some extra jobs are created and we make it easier for sellers, but we also give jobs to some people, even seasonal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u62	Mr Marios Georgiadis is called on the part of the Union of Centres.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u63	Will the Minister accept your amendment, Mr Lazarides?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u64	When the Minister speaks, we will give him some more time to answer the amendments as well. Here, Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u65	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I should like to comment on the way in which this government makes legislation. It is unacceptable and there is no cohesion in all the legislation. As previous speakers have said, there are five different issues which could be a separate draft law. In addition, this procedure is confusing by the legislature, it is contemptuous and that shows arrogance on your part. That means that you do not care what you bring, no matter what you bring, because you know that you will vote with a hundred fifty and half a Member. You don't even need a hundred and fifty three. Here we see arrangements on very different issues and regardless of each other. For example, the outdoor commercial activities and the procedures of the Chambers, how much more of what concerns the amendment to the Industrial Property Organisation, which could easily come to a separate draft law alone. It does not mean that there are a number of issues that are relevant and related to the same Ministry, that you have to bring them two - two - three - three, 'with the kilo', as we speak of people's markets. As a matter of fact, each goodwill could ask why the SYRIZA - ANEL government does not fully regulate one - one issue at a time. I don't personally understand what's preventing her from happening. In this way, more serious work would be done, more attention would be paid to their retirement - because we also have issues here, and I will mention them shortly - and, above all, the negative impression of the production of legislative work 'with the kilo' would not be given. To say that there is no time, and at least in this particular case, it is not right. To be clear. And that is why we can take an example of the draft law which has been posted in the "Public Consultation" since 7 February, so we are talking for exactly nine months. In addition, how difficult it is, Minister, the authors of the draft laws - for each ministry, not only for your own - to be diligently diligent and to avoid writing in the leg and body of mistakes. And, of course, I don't say that by chance. On this point, the Ministry gave me again, given that during the last two meetings, you tabled ten whole pages with ninety-two legislative improvements, and here today another twenty-five pages. The mistakes you have made are based on legislative improvements. In the committee, too, Minister, you told us that the draft law came after an exhaustive two-year consultation with all the stakeholders. In the explanatory memorandum, there is a reference to the fact that in the previous laws, the relevant arrangements were made by means of fragmentary provisions, and the current draft is allegedly an integrated proposal. We all imagine what would happen if there were no such exhaustive consultation and if it were not the concrete plan, and how hundreds of errors would have been in the relevant CVT, which would have been published. Fortunately, of course, there were the competent Vice-Presidents and the representatives of the bodies who, obviously, did a better job and in good time, pointed out any inaccuracies there were and proceeded to legislative improvements. And all of this, in a draft law of great interest, and this is something that is seen from the three hundred and sixty-four comments posted, by the number of bodies invited and, above all, by what was expressed by their representatives during their hearing. Either way, the government claims that it is an integrated effort, for the first time after many years, to control and rationalise rural trade. It is true, of course, that the previous N.4624/2014 had already made several of the necessary changes in the context of rural trade and despite their institutionalisation, but, in fact, trade has not been combated at all and has not even been reduced, leaving it to function as a real brake on the activity of legal enterprises and on increasing public revenue. In addition, we consider positive the intention of establishing a complete and organised register on an electronic platform of all commercial actions in accordance with Article 58. However, the inclusion in the definition of the people's markets, for the first time, and of industrial goods, as provided for in Article 2(9), is considered negative by us because, firstly, it contributes to the growth of the coastal economy and, secondly, it alters the main task of the people's markets, which are no other than the disposal of land and sea products or traditional products. In addition, to ensure the procedures for a number of issues, such as licensing, common placement areas and at the same time to work effectively, it is also necessary, but also a very difficult task to achieve which we are not sure all the provisions of this draft law contribute. We believe it is a setback - to mention another example - to remove from the original draft of the provision, which allowed outdoor trade only in public areas. This is because it goes without saying that by exercising outdoor trade in private places, control by the competent authorities is likely to be hampered and problems are likely to arise in other sectors of the economy. The need for continuous control, of course, does not mean that there must be a body of control mechanisms - eight, please, the number - together with the Independent Authority of Public Revenues and the Directorate for Institutional Regulations and Markets and Services, as provided for in Article 51. In fact, several of these services are subordinated. In this respect, it is not enough for the Market and Trade Coordinating Centre to be able to form mixed tiles and successfully coordinate control. Substantial support is required with appropriate management. I am not talking about recruitment, but about transfers of excess personnel from other bodies. The trade and marketing of primary and secondary production products gives the opportunity, particularly in the special groups, to become economically active in this difficult period of memoranda. I would therefore like to mention one of these special groups, the sensitive social group of the Roma, since one of the aims of this law, obviously, is to combat the unemployment of the Roma and their smoother integration into the Greek society. In order to help this effort, therefore, we call on the Minister to accept the amendment we tabled, with a general number of 1332 and a special 19, in which we call for the change to the low population line in the municipalities, which exists in this bill, above which three thousand people are not allowed to trade on a travel guide. We are asking for 15 to be done so that the possibility can be increased in more municipalities. The argument is simple, because according to the law of Kallikraris - Law No.3852/2010 - with the merger of the neighbouring municipalities, of the three hundred twenty-five municipalities, which exist in Greek territory, have not left more than ten to fifteen in Greece, with such a small number of inhabitants. As a result, there is a substantial geographical limitation on the exercise of the world trade, while, with our proposal, the benefiting municipalities are increasing by about thirty. In addition, we are proposing to delete the administrative fines imposed to the Greek Roma to date, let alone for the imprisonment mentioned by Mr Yakoumatos, who has been involved in on-line trade. Those fines, in addition to the fact that, in all likelihood, they will never be collected, are detrimental to the proper exercise of that category of citizens and prevent them from being incorporated into the social fabric. So we believe that they will have a sufficient incentive, which will give a second chance to these members and will help them significantly in the whole process of a new beginning, within the institutional framework at all times. Another issue, which, in our assessment, is likely to create many problems - it has also been raised by colleagues and also by representatives of operators - is that, in theory, the creation of inexperienced public markets in various categories is permitted, so that there are additional difficulties in quality and tax control. The most important consequence is that the conditions for guaranteeing, even in the basic part, some of the participants are not finally created. We are also positively faced with the provision of Article 86 for the setting-up of a chamber of regional chambers at each regional seat. On the other hand, with Article 102, once again, it is attempting to make state structures, which in this case is the Private Debt Management Secretariat. From a description of the individual parts, which will be all of them, we understand that organic positions are increasing. The worst thing, however, is that there is no recruitment criterion or even that the procedure in question will come through APA, allowing us to consider it well, that the recruitments will be carried out by SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u66	Mr. Georgiade, excuse me, an announcement for ten seconds. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-three students and students and four teachers from the 15th Lamia Municipal School. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u67	We now go to Amendment No 1313 and special No 17 for the Industrial Property Agency. Of course we agree with modernising our national legislation and harmonising it with the corresponding European legislation. But the way in which it is implemented finds us opposing. This is a very big matter. We know that you are very serious about the European Union, but it cannot suddenly come in the form of an amendment and not even have time for proper reading and study. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, I have to say that, in substance, as a Centro Association, for all the reasons I have mentioned above, we will remain in the'representations' in principle and on the whole, because we think there will be a great deal of problems in implementing this draft law and you will probably need amendments in the future to correct these issues. With regard to the articles, our parliamentary representative will also be mentioned in detail. Of course, there is some positive one, which we will also support and do during the vote at the end of the sitting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u68	We close with Mr. George Amyras from the river, and then the Minister will take the floor. Here, Mr. Amyras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u69	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as has been said in committee meetings in the past few days, rural trade legislation clearly needed a renewal, a change, a development forward. We had the basic legislature in 1995, too far for a sector that is constantly evolving and changing. Since then a number of presidential decrees, joint ministerial decisions, etc. have been passed. They have created a pluralism regime more than solved some issues. Law 4624/2014, which a good colleague from the ANLL crumbled. I'd say that's an equatorial logic. And to a certain extent, you're stepping in with the 2014 law and some of the arrangements that it brought back then were very positive. In other words, the use of personal licenses for the first time, the placement, the activation of the Greek police in control. These are, therefore, issues that we cannot constantly delete and be equal to anything that anyone has done, just because we have another party identity. We are talking here as non-party beings, as real citizens, active citizens. Now what do we say? We in Potami say that we certainly need legality, we need transparent licensing procedures, respect for the rules of placement and adequate control of compliance with the rules of competition to deal with the paramilitary problem, which is now permanently wounded at the edge or at no time and at the core of healthy entrepreneurship and the economy, and resources and capabilities from the Greeks. We, of course, have some reservations about the application of the provisions of this draft law, because by laws we have filled, their implementation is what is missing. Clearly, the implementation of the law moves to the adoption of future joint ministerial decisions and simple ministerial decisions does not make me very optimistic about the speed with which this law will be implemented. We think that the forecast rate of 30% of the sampling checks is positive. We must inspire a culture of legal control, both to the commander and to the administration. I would also like to add a proposal here in relation to the criteria for granting the licence. Apart from the unemployed and the income criteria, I feel that new producers of quality local organic products should also be allowed to sell these products on the benches. We must push young farmers and the unemployed, but we must strengthen them in the direction of innovation. Consumer consciousness is, of course, an extremely important factor in this whole matter of the circuit, in the good sense of the interconnection of producers, processors, sellers and, of course, consumers. When consumers learn to see and appreciate the best quality at the best price, they will know where to look for them. On this occasion, however, I wanted to raise a more general issue, the issue as I told you about innovation, primary production and come to make a small comparison between Greece, the Netherlands and Israel. The Netherlands has forty - five million acres. Israel has six million acres of crops and Greece has thirty - seven million acres of crops. Now note the capacity difference in the value of production per acre. In the Netherlands, which, as I said to you, has forty-five million crops, they are produced in value and cause EUR 1,700 per acre. The Dutch are therefore making 1,700 euros per acre. The Israelis EUR 1,190 per acre, with just six million acres of production. And Greece, with thirty-seven million acres, just - look at - 190 euros per acre. In other words, we are nine to one, Dutch to the Greeks. Why? Because in the Netherlands, a market policy is being pursued in Israel, and we here in Greece have the well-known policy of purpose. It is not a matter of rural tradition, but it is a matter of purely will and businessmen and the political system, to facilitate innovation in the primary sector. I put aside the fact that real development is, of course, coming with exports, that it does not come with surpluses of what I mean - by factually - or delays in pensions. The first exporting country of the European Union is the Netherlands. Who? The Netherlands, which is as large as the Peloponnese and second on the planet. These must be our goals, and that is where we must move. In the positive terms of the draft law, I will put the electronic database on the licences granted. It shall facilitate control and promote transparency in the relevant market. Now, in Article 12, I have the question about the timetable. What is the prediction of adopting the decision to set up three-member committees? Also for Article 12. When will this decision be taken so that the people's markets can continue to function in the medium term from one regime to the next? Now, there are some, I'd say, contradictory chatter in Article 28. I am referring to the Committees on the People's Markets. There is a confusion of competence. In Article 28 (l), 'Presponsible is the Committees of the People's Markets on the recommendation of the relevant services'. Otherwise in Article 23, the region shall authorize the planetary seller or the municipality to sellers of fixed trade. Also, in Article 28 (V), the People's Market Committees have powers, among other things, to deliver an opinion on the transfer of licences, and, as I have said, in the same article in just a few minutes before, they decide themselves on the transfer of licences without agreement. What's that thing? One decision, one opinion, one decision by the municipality, elsewhere the region. Isn't that a little complicated and unambiguous? I'll come to the chambers. Well, there were and there are many chambers that are bankrupt, not only financially, but obviously also from work content. They can't respond to their role. I find it positive that there is a possibility of abolishing the chambers. I am of course concerned that this can only be done by ministerial decision. In fact, we're talking about 2021 afterward. Why? Soon we'll have the elections in the chambers for the period '18-21. This is therefore covered. The establishment of a chamber of chambers at the headquarters of each region, of course, is in agreement. On the issues of electoral procedure, it is necessary to remain in force the ban provided for in the previous Chamber of Deputies - so to speak - as a pensioner's participation in the chamber elections. And I come to Articles 101, 104 and 107 and 108, of course you have thankfully corrected 108. For the Greek investment company and for external trade, in Article 101, the interview here seems really curious to me as to the fact that it does not anticipate an objection against the rating of the interview. I am in favour of Article 101, as well as Article 104, on the issues of the Consumers' Counsellor. I think it is extremely important to increase the number of employees. And because I have heard Mr Constantinople raise a number of questions, I would like you to answer them, Mr Minister, so that I can finally place myself in Rule 104. But if things are the way I read them, we'll say no. Article 108, which said that regulatory acts regulating public procurement matters, namely ministerial decisions, circulars, etc., would only require the simpleness and not the agreement of the single independent public procurement authority, was wrong. Fortunately, you corrected it. I told you first of all, I think, by the committees and told you to change it. I now come to a more specific subject, which also gives us political debates, in Article 57 on criminal sanctions. Anyone who testifies, for example, that the products, while they are not their own production, are not their own, has their own fine and imprisonment for up to one year. Here you know, my dear Minister, what would I say to you? Do you know the Greek proverb, that "you are expensive in pie and cheap in flour"? A year of imprisonment to someone who is in the open market and says that "yes, these beans are my own production", while they are not. And at the same time, the Paradise Act opened its doors to hard criminals who had committed homicides, rapes, paedophiles, all the evils of the world. And you opened the door to go out with a very short term of detention and imprisonment. So I tell you that Friday's law and the change in Friday's law should be one of Parliament's immediate priorities, and it will be one of the few cases where amendments to legislation are imposed. I will talk to you about an amendment from the Ministry of Health that has been withdrawn, but it is indicative of the strangles within which the political system is moving and does not allow society to act freely. The Ministry of Health has taken an amendment which, unfortunately, withdrew by a general number of 1305 and a special 16, which abolished geographical restrictions between dentistry and physiotherapy laboratories. So I remind you that such geographical restrictions no longer exist for doctors. Why do you keep geographical restrictions, why do you keep the profession of dentist closed and protected? The government withdrew it. He's going to do a good one and he's taking a step and a half back. That's not how it works. We say that all obstacles must be removed to the free exercise of any profession, of course, by rules of legality, but not by co-building at last. We, as I told you, will vote positively in the bill. In individual, as you have heard, we will be negative and will await your clarifications on some other issues. I would like you to tell us whether you will accept Mr Lazarides' amendment. It's interesting because I'm waiting to see. Mr Lazarides had reinstated this amendment, we had voted in favour of it, because we had found it positive. It turned out to be a little bit and didn't cover the problem. I would like to see whether there is indeed a consultation between the government partners on issues which are obviously of concern to one of the two. As far as the other amendments are concerned, I will now tell you about the Industrial Property Agency that we are saying 'no'. The Industrial Property Organization has a sinful past. I had revealed it to the Production and Trade Commissions at the time, with Minister Stathakis, that they did not enter the single wage bill, while there was the commitment, while there was the law. I had revealed for various privileges that existed, such as cafeteria allowance, early attendance allowance. He wasn't in Nerokopi, his offices are in Maroussi. In any case, we are extremely suspicious of regulations on this agency. However, I will hear your answers, because we are trustworthy and if we see that there are substantial answers, we will reset you, if necessary, the vote in this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u70	Before giving the floor to the Minister, I will read out the first five colleagues - speakers who have been written and altered: Mr Michelogannakis, Mr Adonis Georgiadis, Mr Gregos, Mr Katsiantonis and Mr Karras. Then we'll be back in a row. Of course, the parliamentary representatives will also speak. Every three speakers will also speak a parliamentary representative. Mr Minister, you have twenty-five minutes, compared with eighteen, to answer, if you wish, and to say which amendments you are accepting. I don't mean the ministers. I mean the parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law is an integrated proposal for the regulation of the outdoor trade and the logistics sector. Contrary to the recent past, this bill came after a two-year consultation with all stakeholders. The result of this consultation is a series of provisions which modernise and codify the institutional framework for organisation and operation, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, the commercial, industrial, craft and professional chambers in the country as a whole. Part I of the draft law cleans the terms and conditions of operation of certain outdoor commercial activities. Rural trade must be a stable pillar of the modern economy. This gives an opportunity to a significant part of the population, with the emphasis of the special groups, to become economically active through outdoor commercial activities. The main aim of the bill is to simplify and rationalise the procedures for issuing and renewing licences. Equality shall be strengthened and issues of the competence of management bodies shall be clarified in terms of the regulation, supervision and control of rural trade activities, with a view to legal certainty and confidence in administration. The bill enables the producer to operate either on a regulated market of rural trade, either individually or through its participation in cooperative schemes. At the same time, it ensures full employment of the professional seller and, at the same time, ensures the economic viability of the operators as well. In an objective way, the allocation of priority positions for sellers using social criteria, but also professional conduct and conscientiousness, is made clear. Collective organs and procedures for consultation, participatory action and responsibility are established with a view to recording problems and submitting proposals to competent bodies. The main points of Part I of the bill are, firstly, a detailed account of the forms of subnational trade exercise and the simplification of licensing and renewal procedures. The conditions for granting and renewing a licence, whether the beneficiary is active in outdoor trade, on-site or on-site, or in popular and therefore supporting documents certifying the status, especially of producers, shall be harmonised. In order to grant non-productive licences, professional licences, social protection is maintained and even strengthened, as the basic condition of unemployment is now combined with income criteria. In addition, by reducing the supporting documents for granting and renewing authorisations, it is attempting to reduce the administrative burden. Secondly, the bill provides for a record of all organised forms of outright trading and those operating on an electronic platform for the best supervision and cross-checking of data and control and registration of sanctions imposed. Thirdly, the draft law enables producers to issue a licence for outdoor trade and therefore to place their products on their own, outside the public markets. Fourthly, with the new provisions, the professional seller who comes to the markets is traditionally paid less than six days a week on the public market. Its full employment is thus sought, with a view, first, to its viability and, second, to increasing the income of the operator of the public market, on account of the payment of a daily fee for more days. Fifthly, the new provisions guarantee the legality of rural trade and, at the same time, the introduction of the book of immigrant quantities, the system of supervision and monitoring of quantities of fruit and vegetables sold on the popular markets is strengthened. Sixth, the bill establishes a moleculosis system, where each seller, based on criteria combining social characteristics, such as a family situation, a number of children, but also a lack of infringability, is placed in an objective and transparent way. Seventhly, the amounts of administrative sanctions shall be streamlined in accordance with the new conditions in the market and economy of the country and, at the same time, the penalties to be recorded in a sanctions register shall be extended in their form. Eighth, committees consisting of management bodies and representatives of producer organisations shall be set up in each region, decentralising the implementation of arrangements and contributing to the assent between the parties involved. In the bill we add a provision allowing the integrated regional self-government information system to automatically compile the information from the information system of the Ministry of Labour, "ERGANI", without the seller having to submit supporting documents that the recruitment took place. We are increasing the control services by adding to the control bodies for the implementation of the provisions of rural trade, the House of Appeal for Economic Crime. The regulation is promoted, as the IORP also adds to the control bodies will achieve better control over outdoor trade. We regulate for the transitional stage the question of the renewal of travellers' licences in a corresponding manner, as has been regulated on the people's markets. This provision regulates the question of the renewal of stagnation and planetary trade permits so that there are uniform rules on legal activity in all forms of outdoor trade. In the second part of the draft law, the provisions we have tabled have as a coherent element a clear vision of the development of the chamber. Our aim is for chambers to be upgraded as state advisers, as providers of high-level services to their members and as an independent development pillar, especially at regional level. In particular, the support centre for enterprises is set up to extend the principle of a single stop to carry out entrepreneurship-related procedures. At the same time, regional chambers are set up as autonomous collective bodies of all chambers of each region, with a dual mission, firstly, the institutional safeguarding and coordinated exercise of the advisory role of chambers in the preparation of regional operational programmes and, secondly, the submission of proposals for the planning and implementation of development actions, in particular in the framework of the ESDP, in cooperation with secondary self-government. We believe that these interventions in practice confirm the confidence of the state in the chambers as guardians of the national development strategy, which is known to be based on the processing and implementation of proposals that have been fermented at regional level. A similar confidence is shown to the workers in the chambers, who were invited a few years ago to raise the burden of a significant reduction in their services' organic positions. In order to respond even more effectively to their work, therefore, we are establishing an objective and fully transparent process of chamber staffing, with enhanced the supervisory role of the AACC. Apart from confidence, however, the key to upgrading the institution is to strengthen the participation of chamber members. In this respect, the electoral system is becoming more proportionate. Cooperation between departments is encouraged and the participation of women entrepreneurship, which is aware of rapid development in our country in the electoral processes, is guaranteed. Equally important is the attempt to attract new entrepreneurs through the introduction of a two-mile limit for the presidents. The aim is, like the drawing-up of the provisions itself, based on a participatory process, so their implementation must become an asset and a prerogative of the entire domestic entrepreneurship. In other words, the second chapter of the bill is not only a sign of the modernisation of chambers, but also a call for cooperation between the state and the private financial initiative. The smooth development of this cooperation requires wider consensus and close micro-participatory interests to be overcome. We have accepted the proposal from the Central Union of Chambers, on the number of candidates, to whom the voters and other technical details of the elections can express their preference. Secondly, the proposals from the Federation of Chambers of Officials on the establishment of disciplinary boards. We believe that these amendments best complete the difficult, complex, but productive and sincere dialogue with the Chamber of Deputies. Preparation for the December elections continues smoothly thanks to the daily effort of the election committees and officials of the Ministry. The relevant electoral bodies have not called into question the new institutional framework. Finally, in Part C of the draft law, provisions of the Ministry of Economy and Development relating to various important issues of which the most important are the following. In Article 100, we proceed to the institutional shielding and improvement of the functioning of the SyKEAP, the Coordinating Centre for the Market and Management of the Merger Centre, the Joint Centre, which organises joint actions to combat the coastal trade. This is achieved through the establishment of a strong relationship between the centre and the regions, the possibility of carrying out checks by itself and the increase in the members and services that form it. Article 101 seeks to serve the "Greek Investment Company and External Trade S.A." with the appropriate staff through a clearly defined, transparent and aptitude process with a substantial involvement of the IACC in relation to the former regime. In response to Mr Constantinople, interviews are conducted by a five-member committee. The Chairman of this Committee shall be the Chairman of the AACC. Article 102 provides that amendments are made to the organisational units of the Private Debt Management Secretariat by adding new sections and a new Directorate-General, with a clearer definition of the responsibilities of some departments and addresses, while attempting to increase the number of centralised positions from seventy-nine to fifteen, in order to enable it to respond more effectively to the exercise of its powers, in particular after the adoption of Law 4469/2017: ‘Order for the regulation of corporate debts and other provisions’. In response to the honourable Members, Constantinople and Mario Georgiadis, all posts of the Private Debt Settlement Secretariat shall be covered exclusively by secondments and transfers of personnel already serving in the public sector, as explicitly provided for in Article 90(3) of L.4389/2016. A very important provision that highlights the social nature of the law is that of Article 103, which limited to the amount of EUR 500 fines imposed on the basis of Law 4264/2014 and until the entry into force of the Ministerial Decision signed in January 2017 and significantly reduces the fines of 5000. It is an important regulation that will alleviate those who are unable to cope with the high and inappropriate level of the sanction imposed on them. Article 104 seeks to remove an interpretative issue which prevents the progress of the procedures for the transfer of permanent officials to the Consumer Counsel. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] The proposed provision of Article 105 enables the Competition Committee to give beneficiaries unduly paid, in particular where the initial budgetary increase in share capital was not carried out or the increase was only partly covered. Article 106 introduces significant changes to the development law of 2016. In particular, the regulation in paragraph 1 provides that undertakings whose exports already occupy 85% of their turnover are to be considered as extroverters in order not to require further evidence of an increase in their extroversion. In the light of the above, the Commission concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107(3)(c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Given the improvement of the country's budgetary situation and the resulting possibility of paying the planned aid for this year, but also for the coming years, the arrangement seeks to pay once or in fewer instalments of the remaining amounts of aid to investors in order to increase liquidity on the market and to clarify the outstandingities of the old development laws more quickly. Paragraph 3 gives the possibility of converting short-term loans, which were concluded with a corresponding transfer to a bank of the investment grant that had been subject to the earlier development laws, 2014 and 2011, due to the time period that has elapsed since their entry into force. Paragraph 4 clarifies the remuneration scheme for the members of the various committees of the new Development Law of 2016 in a similar manner to the remuneration of the members of the other committees of the same law, for which the relevant arrangement already exists. Paragraph 5 updates the setting up of a Special Advisory Committee of Experts of the previous Development Law, 2014. Paragraphs 6 and 7 harmonise the institutional framework with a time to implement the specifications of the information system for state investment in order to meet the long-term obligations of investors. Paragraph 9 provides that the Advisory Committees referred to in Article 27 of the new Law of 2016 shall participate, without voting rights, the Legal Adviser, the Parker of the Legal Board of the State of the relevant entity. I should like to reply to the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Yakumato, about his question about the parks. Activities with entertainment, artistic and educational objects, such as parks, are a special category. This is why the Council of State has considered that the operation of such facilities differs from other activities of the countryside, landlocked or on-site trade. It is therefore considered preferable, at both legal and regulatory level, that the relevant provisions should be the subject of a distinct legislation which governs all entertainment activities whether they are outdoor or not. Finally, I would like to point out that we do not accept the amendment tabled by the Union of Centres with a general number of 1332 and a special 19, as well as the two amendments by the Independent Greeks with a general number of 1313 and a special 20 and with a general number of 1315 and a special number of 21. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u72	Thank you for not covering. Now I am pleased to say that we are entering the list of speakers. We're starting with Mr. Micheloannakis from SYRIZA. Mr. Micholoannakis, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u73	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, this draft law introduces full electronic recording of commercial actions, and it certainly makes licensing and control simpler. The producer may be active in both an organised market for outdoor trade and in individual and collaborative forms. The placement of the sellers in the people will be made with molecules based on social criteria and professional conduct. This ends many forms of customer relations. Professional farmers will be able to act in any form of outdoor markets. So they can also out of popular markets. This encourages participation through cooperative markets or producer groups in rural trade. It also simplifys the licensing procedure. For Athens and Thessaloniki the districts are responsible, while for the rest of the cities, the municipality. The producer could only be absent for health, maternity or paternity reasons. Now with a simple statement and a family status certificate can be made up by a spouse or children. And this is very important, as is the fact that the renewal and duration of the licence will be done with a responsible statement and a comparison with the IACS data. The owners of small undertakings in the dairy sector will be able to sell on the public market without being farmers and if they do not have a retail shop. A professional seller who comes to the people less than six days a week is premiumed, thus targeting his full-time. The professional may be active in all sections of the region. Those who have been bankrupt can seek leave for one year. The transfer of leave to an invalidity of 67% or death first to children is maintained, then to the wife and then to the brothers. People's Markets Committees are set up by region, involving management and operators' representatives. People's market operators shall draw up a normal operating regulation and a topographic chart. The daily reward fee in Attica and Thessaloniki is 60% in the region and 40% in the municipality and in the rest of Greece 75% in the municipality and 25% in the region. The market for consumers, the placing of artists and crafts with a licence is being established. Global trade was banned in over thirty thousand, and now it is reduced to five thousand. In other words, people's criteria change. Administrative sanctions will be classified on the basis of the degree of illegality. They will be recorded in a sanctions register. As regards chambers, they must act as state advisers with suggestions and information on each economic issue. Enter the institution of Business Support Centres. The representativeness and proportionality of the Management Board and the departments shall be strengthened. A leaf quota shall be established on the lists. It strengthens the staff with an ASP competition and mobilisation of the actual service. It shall not be permitted to transfer to general government bodies. disciplinary boards are being established. The institution of the Regional Chambers is introduced. The disciplinary responsibility of the administrations of the Central Union shall be established. The bilateral chambers are being modernised and a Parallel Surveillance Centre is being set up. This is very important, because it is essentially an end to illegal trade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u74	Thank you, too. The next speaker is Mr Adonis Georgiadis. Here, Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u75	Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] First of all, ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy, while fully respecting the people of the people of the people's markets, has fought in extremely difficult conditions to do work which most of us here would not do, has voted in favour of this bill at first. And you know, this is not an easy decision for our party. But we believe that in matters relating to the attempt to make life better for people of the biopale, people who under extremely difficult conditions stand up, the New Democracy could not be an obstacle. On the contrary. I would like to congratulate our rapporteur, Mr Yakumato, who has given a very constructive effort to this bill to improve and to be able to reach the positive result of the first positive vote. But I have to tell you, Minister, that until the last minute we have been amazed at whether we should vote, thinking of Article 37 and of the incredible rumour you are doing. You may be there, in the United States of America, Minister, not knowing the word rushphetti or not knowing it. But you came to Greece and joined the tricks very quickly, because you have a ruffle huge. What are you doing? You took SYRIZA's entire party clientele, so-called solidaritys, the so-called NGOs, and what are you doing? You are building a parallel system of popular markets. We are talking about people who have been working for years, sweating, waking up at 4:00 a.m., paying taxes, having damages and trying to cope. And you come with a bill, and what are you doing? You share the pie with them in two, because you are making a parallel market for popular markets, this so-called market without intermediaries. Has anyone, when these markets are made without intermediaries, checked whether the materials actually sold are Greek, Minister, or are they materials that come cheaper from third countries to enter into unfair competition and beat people of the real violin? And yes, when the New Democracy was a government, it conflicted with these people to make reforms. Our rapporteur has closed down with a very good point. We are monitoring the development of this reform. And if we see something's wrong, we're not dogmatic. We're here to be able to fix things. And we never said we were infallible. But we never did ruptured like what you do with Article 37, Minister. Of course, what you are doing is a manifestation of the true ethos of the 'first time left' where today - and I regret what I will say to you, Minister, but, believe me, they are not of a personal character - as you have unfortunately made SYRIZANEL policy, there is no other solution. I wake up in the morning and hear: 'The great scandal!' The great scandal was Mrs. Marvas Mitsotakis' professional activity. Very good. Your MPs told you last few days on the channels, "You will see what has to come out", Mr. Tsipras himself made a lecture, Mr. Janakopoulos and after they found out that the treasure was carbon, they went to the new account: "Yes, okay, there is no matter and we poorly mentioned it. Is it moral, however, that the wife of the Chief of Staff Responsibility should have such activities?". Mr. Papadimitriou, I'm not entering your ideology. Ideology is a personal matter of every man. You are a man of hard capitalism. Reading "possibly" in your statements, I'm confused. I can't do the summation. If I put in your $2450,000 pension program, and I add it to the deposits, it's about $5 million. You have the 5 million, Mr. Papadimitriou, you and your wife and enjoy them, I say, because I'm not like you. But I ask: is it a moral minister of Greece having 5 million in a pension scheme at GP Morgan and HSBC? That's moral. But it's immoral for Mrs. Mitsotakis to work! You had to go out first, Mr. Papadimitriou, and restrain Mr. Tsipras from all this mud and all that populism. You, Mr. Papadimitriou. And if Mr. Tsipras hadn't listened to you, you'd have to submit your resignation so you wouldn't serve as a minister for people who throw mud like that. Was it, ladies and gentlemen, moral that in the days of the indignant, Mr Tsakalotos, had 700,000 in Black Rock? Was it moral for Mr. Tsakalotus to have 700,000 in Black Rock? It was moral to have Mr. Chakalotos. If it's none of the New Democracy, it's immoral! Thank Mr. Tsakalotos, of course. For God's sake! Now I see his money's dropped and it's about 300,000. Of course, he's in London's banks. That's weird, too. Mr. Tsakalotos, Greek Minister of Finance, as Greek Minister of Finance, has his statements in London. Why, Minister Tsakalote, do you have your statements in London? You don't trust the Greek banking system? Do you want me to go on? Well, what about Mr. George Statakis? George Stathakis is the only Greek, Madam President, when he was at home, he forgot in the drawer 1 million euros and told your committee that this decision will be checked in the future. That's what I'm saying. And your committee decided that it's okay that Mr. Stathakis forgot to say 1 million. He got away with it. He was negligent. What can we say? I leave Yani Varoufakis with a "n". He's not yours. Mr. Juliarakis? That's all. And the Minister of Finance has statements abroad, and the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Juliarakis, has all his statements abroad. But one of the financial staff wouldn't trust Greece to bring his money here? For Mrs. Fotou, I've said this before, I don't have to repeat. I can't read them all. There's too many of them. I'm only staying on my favorite. He is not here because he is a Member of the European Parliament and indeed a Vice-President of the European Parliament. Mr Papadimoulis came out first - first to tweet. But he didn't know how to bring his money to Greece. Of course, here we are talking about the people of the people's markets who rise up in the morning to make chefs of EUR 20 and EUR 30. And my Mr Papadimoulis has 1,5 million euros in the banks in Brussels and he tweets me and sells me a spirit of what is moral and what is immoral! Mr. Papademitriou and gentlemen of SYRIZA, at the hanged man's house, they don't talk about rope. You are the most unspoiled MEP who has been through the history of the Greek Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u76	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u77	Don't you talk. Let go. Don't talk! How many, forty properties do you have? Thirty-eight? Don't talk. Thirty-eight properties you have!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u78	Mr. Georgiadis, talk a little about the popular markets.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u79	If we sum up the properties of members of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group you have all together - the hundreds forty, how many are - more money than all people on the people's markets all over Greece, whom you supposedly defend, as defenders of the poor. And hypocrisy has its limits! Look at what you're going to do with Mr. Kammenos and the secret mediator he put on the sale, Mr. Papadopoulos, where instead of checking why the Saudis said they didn't know the mediator who had worn a hat on the deal, the deal was broken because the Saudis did not accept to go through the middleman and has lost the Greek Ministry of Defence 65 million euros, and then get up and sell a spirit again. You're the most involved in everything! Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u80	Mr. Gregos has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u81	Thank you, Madam President. New Democracy and SYRIZA have only voted for it in the Committee on Control of the "subjects" of the politicians and parties which examine all these economic data in terms of parties. You understand what that means. The Minister mentioned the words 'project of a social character'. The social character of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL every day is experienced by the Greek people and, of course, by those who are struggling to survive the people's markets. You have little relationship with them, you now have little relationship with the Greek people. As far as the amendments are concerned, they are almost all late. I shall refer to Ministerial Amendment 1336/22. The Ministry of Economy and Development introduces this and amends certain provisions of L.4314/2014. This law concerns the formalities of the corporate framework agreement, a management and control system applicable to the operational programmes of the PSC, the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund and the Cohesion Fund. It is a series of arrangements mainly concerning the management of the ESDP. We first note that the Ministry's intention is, however, to rationalise the area of the management of operational programmes by setting up new management bodies, such as intermediaries, which will be able to act on the initiative of local communities and on the basis of a decision by the Minister or the Regional Director. But is it possible for local communities to take such an initiative and, if so, under what procedure? Provisions are subsequently put in place for the purpose of evaluating officials in the NRP. This is, in theory, a positive forecast in terms of strengthening the achievement of the objectives. The latter provision provides that the payment of the costs of work on motorway projects will be borne by the co-financed part of the Ministry's Public Investment Programme. However, there is no reference to specific amounts in order to have a full picture. Finally, as is clear from the latter provision, we have the approval of compensation to members of the advisory committees and the evaluation committees acting under the action of investment programmes. While the amendment tends to regulate particularly important issues, we nevertheless see carelessness and feasibility. We are voting against it. On the very important issue of the market, the problem of the market and the need for its immediate closure have been well known for many years. Of course, the problem was raised by the hundreds of illegal immigrants who, with the tolerance and coverage of the state, continue to deal with all kinds of products. We have repeatedly asked questions about this issue and not just nothing happened, but the problem was gigantic, especially in the major cities, such as Athens and Thessaloniki. I am giving an indication of some of the questions on different dates. There are dozens other than the Members of the Golden Dawn. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Antony Gregos, presents for the minutes the abovementioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In the area of the historic centre of Thessaloniki, in the heart of the city, in the square of Aristotle, the parachute is organizing the parachutes and, in fact, right in front of the entrance of the Chamber and only a few meters from the Police Department of the White Tower. I have visited this region many times and have only recorded ten minutes of such violating actions. We have been in contact with all chambers which require drastic measures, but of course governments do not care for themselves. The most tragic thing is that mayors, Boutaris, Kamine, are indifferent to the anger of the shopkeepers and merchants. Of course, these mayors are close to illegal immigrants and because of ideology and, of course, show the necessary tolerance - guilt to the illegal trade. In the area of the new beach in Thessaloniki, especially at weekends, you can't really release from the benches and spread sheets that flood the spaces. For police intervention, no reason! Warehouses kept by all illegal products are known, but of course there is not even an intervention there. Of course, the fight against trade needs political will, but it is funny to discuss something like this at the time when there are the unbattles of the universities and the Exarchites, where there is an outlet with the full coverage of the government. The objective, of course, of the government is not to smuggle out the market - it could be very easy - but to hit the traders who pay taxes and contributions every month. The phenomenon will, of course, grow during holidays and, of course, a bill like this will not solve any problems. Unfortunately, we have such a government. Unfortunately, we have mayors like Boutaris and like Kamine. Unfortunately, we have to wait a few more months until we get rid of them. So it is easy to see that the non-blocking of the smuggling - not least - poses risks to public health, except for the huge loss of revenue - is a matter of political choice. The opening up of borders and illegal immigration, as I said before, launched the problem with tragic consequences. How important is it that some thousands of smugglers are confiscated in Chisimiki or Omonia when boats arrive every day in a container full of all kinds of illegal objects? Why does no one touch the hundreds of illegal warehouses known to the authorities exactly where they are, and how exactly is the movement of illegal products and of whom? Our special speaker, Mr Shahinides, has referred to the issues of the people's markets, our positions and our proposals. Of course, there should be control mechanisms in the people's markets, but they should work properly and fairly. You are used, as in almost every bill, to legislate against Greeks and in favour of illegal immigrants, so that on the one hand you can beat Greeks and, on the other, make the country a attraction for millions of illegal people. So this bill has many points with racist targeting, racist against the Greeks, as always. Your attempt to bring bills supposedly in the interests of the people not only falls into the void, but most of the time they cause economic extermination to productive operators and traders. Neither do you. You cannot help the financial patients and the Greek people. That is why we are firmly against you and the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u82	Mr Katsiantonis from the Centroon Union has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u83	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the bill that is being discussed today, I will address issues relating to the exercise of rural trade. You will allow me not to claim a little more objectivity, since I have two of my own people who go out every week on the people's markets, my wife and my brother-in-law. So I have a very good picture of what is going on in rural trade. It is therefore apparent on some issues that change towards a positive one. In particular, the changes are positive: 60% of professional sales licenses will be available to disabled people, at least 50%, in polytexts and tritecs, etc., while the remaining 40% will be available to the unemployed. In the manufacturer's ability to operate either in an organised rural market, either individually or through its participation in cooperative schemes. In the printing and description of all types of permits for rural trade and all forms of exercise. In the consolidation of the conditions for granting and renewing licences, either the licensee is active in outdoor trade, planetary or landslide or in popular markets. Changes concerning: Simplification and rationalisation of licensing procedures and renewal of licences are also positive. The utility of the electronic platform and cross-checking of organised forms of sub-trade exercise. The possibility for producers to issue a licence for the placing on the market of their products outside the public market. Introducing the institution of the book of transferable quantities. In the moleculosis system, which will set specific criteria on the basis of which each seller will qualify for its candidates. The possibility that small producers of dairy and cheese products - non-farmers - can exceptionally sell dairy products exclusively on popular markets if they do not have a retail branch. The fact that species such as jams, spoon sweets and candy are available, which will give a professional horizon to many producers in the midst of the crisis, which has been happening in Italy over the past twenty-five years. The fact that markets are being established without intermediaries. Finally, the opportunity will be given to professionals who have been bankrupt to take leave and place on the people's market for the sale of indisposed types of the holding company, up to a maximum of one year. All of this, I think, will bring positive results to Greece, which is trying to come out of the crisis through production. But it is negative that the case of rural trade falls within the competence of the municipalities and is entrusted to the regions or the Ministry. I believe that this only concerns and difficulties in implementing what you come to anticipate will, for the simple reason that the people's market is a purely local issue, responsibility and competence. While, in practice, each municipality assumes responsibility for the functioning of the public market, spending funds on cleaning and collection of waste after that, the draft legislation under discussion attempts to weaken it and transfer the role it plays in the regions. As I have seen from the CEDEFOP's positions, this will affect about 70% of the people's markets. In other words, municipalities will be simple viewers in terms of both charges, such as rents, and licences and visas for professional sales agents, for the licensing of professional sales agents in rural commerce, etc. I am proposing - rightly so - that the municipalities should be given full responsibility for both the licensing of the planetary and stationary trade and for the control of the people's markets by the relevant committees. To have responsibility for establishing, transport, extending or abolishing public markets, as well as for collecting daily fees at 100%. Decentralisation brings solutions, contrary to centralism, which brings problems and difficulties to the daily lives of the citizens. And our everyday lives need flexibility and proper administration, which if we do not take into account, will obviously be a cause and cause for failure of what is positive in this bill. I therefore ask the Minister to make a relative change about this, about the good of the market and about the development of our real economy. Before I close, I would like to draw the Minister a point which has obviously escaped his attention and which concerns the replacement of a producer. Whilst professional sellers may be made up by their spouse or relatives from blood up to a third grade or from stress up to a second degree, the same does not apply to producers who can be replaced only by their spouse or children. I would like to stress that producers should be primarily in the production area, especially in seasonal cases. And since I am talking about the seasonal burden, I should also like to convey a request from producers of seasonal products. They want to be able to come out for as long as the production of their seasonal product and pay a daily fee for that period, for a place allocated to them at any point on the popular market there is an empty point. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm closing, Madam President. Thus more producers will see this possibility as economically more attractive and the municipalities will also be able to place positions that in other cases would be considered as second choice and of course we would also encourage more producers to turn to seasonal products. I hope, Minister, that these proposals will be heard and seen through the act if you adopt them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u84	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, twelve students and a meeting from the Hellenic American College. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Karras has the floor, an independent congressman.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u85	Madam President, as I have said before, when a bill from the Ministry of Economy and Development comes to a discussion, it is a question of whether it contributes to development policy, to the development of the economy, given the economic conditions of this period of crisis, which has now become a permanent and long-term situation. I am not going to talk about the issue of chambers or the issues of the people's markets, because in my view it is a codification of existing provisions already in place, and in addition, there are some improvements in the findings of experience to date, as has emerged. I will, however, dwell in particular on two points, which are what I think could be a sign of development, but unfortunately I cannot identify it in the text of the proposed law. So I start and ask myself: are there any conditions for development in this bill? So I am staying on a piece of interest in the issues of the Private Debt Management Special Secretariat. I'm standing here. I read that a crowd is being created in an already existing institution, a special secretariat that existed. They are increasing, they are supposed to be supplemented by its responsibilities, its organizational agenda, and we are therefore awaiting the results. I do not expect, ladies and gentlemen, results from these amendments which come to the Special Secretariat of the Private Debt. Why? Because before all, when we have a bill entitled Private Debt Management Secretariat, we will find out what the tools for managing this debt are. And when we talk about private debt management, we're not just talking about mechanics, about standard management. We are talking about such management, which will lead to growth not only in terms of growth, but also to the relief of those populations already suffering from the consequences of the crisis. So I say this: at the moment we finally have two parallel institutions, two parallel procedures, which prevent private debt from being resolved favourably for borrowers. What are these parallel procedures? Is the Bank of Greece, first of all, that body that will manage private debt and give directions in cooperation with the European Central Bank or the Private Debt Management Secretariat will have the lead? I cannot understand which of the two institutions will take precedence over the fact that the government's daily announcements, the daily information we have told us this: the 'h' issue has been raised in the institutions and is being discussed - negotiation is taking place. So what will it offer? A platform, if any, in the extrajudicial compromise and yet this platform - if you like - has not proven that it will be able to deal with the problems rapidly. The fact is, of course, that it is not in this law, but it will come about and I am sure that the extrajudicial mechanism also has the limitation on what makes the solution equal to the enforced implementation of the Code of Civil Procedure. What does the law on extrajudicial mechanism tell us? It tells us that the creditor's position cannot be any worse than the one he would have had if the courts had been enforced and the auction was distributed and the borrowers were ranked. So in this sense, without immediate action, we cannot go ahead and solve problems. A next point to which I should like to mention is the fact that the Private Debt Management Secretariat cannot deal with matters beyond certain standards, some of the examples of documents it gives or will give, cannot really address issues. So what does a new, new service need, which we will serve with a large number and which will ultimately become stiff and will at least not be able to serve the title under which it is imported? And to remind you that we have a Governmental Private Debt Management Board. We haven't seen any results. We have a Coordinating Committee for Private Debt Management. There may be only one use of these provisions, the thirty information and assistance centres for borrowers and, if necessary, the imported article on legal assistance to those who do not have the capacity to deal with costs in order to resort to those procedures that will solve their problems. I want to say this and I shall close, Madam President. Whatever the government may legislate and propose in this period, however well-intentioned its effectiveness is, unfortunately, not capable of solving the problems and I give the following examples. The Act on Civil Debt, the well-known Katseli Law, was reformed at the end of 2015. They still accumulate thousands of cases in peace court. It is also being discussed whether the instruments have been given to borrowers, those which will in a short, drastic and effective way be able to prove their financial situation, their obligations, so that the courts can move forward. The issue of the settlement, through the extrajudicial compromise - a mechanism, of private entrepreneurship, of small or large ones has not been resolved. The most important thing is that we are a country of agriculture, since we have been de-industrialised, since we now have an outlet for investment rather than a direct investment. And any investments are currently made in participation or in the acquisition of companies. They do not add to the country's production potential. We now go to the last example I want to give to the agricultural sector. Has the so-called red agricultural loans of the bad ATE Bank been adjusted? On the contrary, we hear things every day, that a law will come that is commensurate with the demises. We hear that it will manage the agricultural properties of a new organisation, the so-called DIAGE, which will make the owners of their lands rentable, because they will eventually be removed, since no solution has been found. Is this law that comes or is it just bureaucratic? I want to believe that this law needs to be improved, at least, at those points where private debt is managed in this period, because there are no public investments.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u86	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u87	I shall conclude immediately, Madam President. The last example is Mr Haritsis' amendment, which will settle, supposedly, loose ends of the NRP. What did he do? What was open, what was in the past, because there is no longer any possibility of funding from European funds, the old programmes until 2013, transports them to the Greek taxpayer. So stand by and wait for your answers. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u88	Mr. Barkas has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u89	Thank you, Madam President. Obviously, we will not be consulting the Vice-President of the New Democracy. That's clear. Unfortunately, the New Democracy and the Group of the European People's Party agrees that a man who until three years ago had been calling her the shotgun. He admits to pulling out and prosecuting New Democracy MPs with a huge history in this party, to do the main thing in the Parliamentary Group, to "dress" parliamentarians as he wants, to give them a reason whenever he wants to. On the other hand, he is the same man who lied on television about members of the government who he himself acknowledged after an hour and did not ask for a single apology. This is the spirit that emerges through the leadership of the New Democracy. And, of course, from the position he did what he accepted? That there is obviously a matter with the Paradise Papers, these new ones that are now coming out. He recognised through his position that you have a close relationship, obviously - we still don't know, will be announced in the next period - with these papers. You will come here, you will apologise and the leadership of the New Democracy will apologise for these things. But it turns out through his position that you've got your nest, once again. We caught you with the sprout on your back once more. Minister, I have to say about the bill - unfortunately, I am not involved in the committee responsible - that I have heard from Members' positions in plenary and from other groups in Parliament that it is moving in the right direction. I was captured by Mr Katsiantoni of the Centroon Union for things he knows about. I think, Minister, that you can take them into account so that the bill can be formulated in a direction which will solve essential problems. I have taken the floor, Madam President, on a specific matter which, unfortunately, I did not have the opportunity to put into committee and I will do so by this House. Mr Minister, in our country, about ten of the number of farmers are in operation. I do not know if you know this, but I must inform you. Farmers’ markets are markets per county, involving farmers in the county in which they operate. These markets operate for about four years, they are ten years of numbers and operate somewhat informally, with the agreement of the local community and with the agreement of the municipal councils in which they operate. There's one like this in Preveza. The municipality has been given space to operate this market and it has a large social footprint. They only go producers of the Preveza Prefecture. The day people operate from Preveza buy. It is, let's say, a market without intermediaries. In other words, producers themselves can trade their products. They have a great positive social impact and, unfortunately, we have done nothing about these markets. I don't think their problems are solved by this bill. We expect a ministerial decision on how these markets operate. I think we should look at this very seriously. Firstly, to continue their operation. Producers themselves raise a number of issues with regard to their operation. And you, as a competent ministry, along with the other co-legislative ministries, should take a serious look at the issue of farmers' markets. This is a very important issue, and I think we need to resolve this as well. I have some suggestions in this direction. I think I have sent you some proposals on these markets and we will continue in the next few months. Thank you very much for the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u90	The floor has been requested by the Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres, Mr Saridis. Mr. Saridis, you have the floor for twelve minutes. Do not exhaust him, because the MPs are rushing to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u91	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the economic and institutional crisis that has experienced in recent years and continues to experience and today the Greek society has already imposed some very critical changes in the daily lives of our fellow citizens and will bring more, perhaps even more important ones. In any case, what no one disputes is that the sole responsibility for the smooth adaptation of Greek society to the new conditions lies with the entire domestic political system. According to the government today's bill aims to give a new breath, a new content, in two historical institutions in the country, in chambers and in the people's markets. Both of these institutions have their roots in the democratic consciousness of Greek citizens. Both of these institutions have been hit by the crisis, both have changed their features and have been forced to adapt so that they can cope with the new hostile economic conditions and effectively cope with the rapid growing social needs, all of which we have used to call a humanitarian crisis. People's markets and chambers, two institutions in crisis. Two genuine democratic practices that continue, despite what has happened, to enjoy the confidence of the Greeks. The people's markets, in which the signs of the upcoming populace first appeared, which hit Greek society, were the first to show immediate sensitivity and respond to the sad phenomena of the sudden, abrupt, rapid, unfair poorer part of our fellow citizens. Suddenly, more and more were forced to haggle in front of the people's benches the tens and twenty minutes they had. More and more people waited to shop at noon when prices fell. They began to increase, however, gradually, also those who did not care about prices. They didn't care about the 20th or the tenth, and they just waited for the time to look for the trash. At the same time, however, the people's markets also offered the necessary fertile ground for showing solidarity and solidarity, among our poor and poorer fellow citizens, among those who had already been beaten and those who saw their turn coming to be beaten. No one was finally disabled. The famous middle class, the birth of the country's European course during Transmigration, became violently impoverished and within very short periods of time. The consequences have been tragic and we will need - the truth to be said - for too many years to be able to come together. The role of the people's markets in this effort is vital. The consumer consciousness of the Greeks was strengthened. Their demands, regarding the safeguarding of their rights, have been increased. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the conditions under which we are called upon to legislate and, therefore, our aim should be to carefully regulate the functioning of the people's markets in a way that meets the high requirements that all Greeks rightly have as consumers. I say quite rightly because it is unacceptable that we should not be able to enjoy at affordable prices, adapted in reality and safely to the goods that this blessed place has to offer here. Is it possible that Part One of the bill under discussion will achieve all of this in his sixty articles? That is the question, which we have to answer here today. The truth is that we're just wondering what chances it might have to do with it, we've already failed. We should almost all be sure in this House that the government's legislative initiative leaves no room for doubt. Unfortunately, however, the objections and remarks made from many and different aspects - and in the committees we have heard the bodies - do not allow us to optimise. How will we act, for example, on what is provided for in Article 58, on the intention of the Minister of Government to institutionalise the full and well-organised recording of all commercial actions through an electronic platform? It's positive, but how can it be done? What timelines are we talking about right now? On the other hand, who believes that the embargo will be broken and tax evasion restricted, because we will probably ask for insurance and tax information as a prerequisite for the licensing of popular markets? Are we forgetting that we are in a country where about a million and a half citizens owe tax and another two and a half have regulated debts? This has come out of our minds. He's not in the lawmaker's mind when he legislates? What are you finally responding to the issues raised by the CEDEFOP concerning the exclusion of the municipalities of central Macedonia and the Region of Attica from the power to regulate the operation of rural trade? With what arguments do you reassure the Greek Committee of Regions that expressed very serious concerns about the procedure for issuing permits for rural trade, and indeed did it talk about the sure reinforcement of bureaucracy, which would have unforeseen effects? Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the people's markets will be assured that they will be dealing with us again soon, because what we are doing today is not simplifying, but rather, in the view of the Union of Centres, making it difficult to operate. I now move on to the commentary in Part II concerning the Chambers. The operation of the chambers has been tested very hard, as, as has already been mentioned, many and several times, on the one hand, and the amount and difficulty of the problems that the chambers have been asked to face, while on the other hand, the possibility of their members suddenly being able to participate in them has been reduced. However, the persistent and painful efforts made by those who endured and took the responsibility of driving the chambers through the Memorandum Crisis in the new era, which dawned in the country, have yielded fruit. Already today, we can hope that the institution of the chambers will eventually come out stronger, will eventually come out stronger than this hard test in recent years. The work of the legislator, Parliament's responsibility, is to help with substantial interventions in order to maintain the legitimate hopes that citizens' participation will give the dynamics of a genuine development tool in the institutions of chambers. We don't question your intentions, Mr. and gentlemen of the government. But you have not managed to convince us that what you are proposing is sustainable. And how could we believe that, once you continue to legislate again and again by calling for Parliament to authorize the ministers of the government so that they can define, by their own decisions, common or non-violent decisions, the details that make the difference, the critical details that are not, believe me, no details and which could prove whether the government's intentions are honest, yes or no? It is right that your decision and we recognise this to go on with some very important issues, which are described in Part II of Articles 60 to 99 of the draft legislation under discussion, such as the establishment of Business Support Centres, the establishment of Regional Chambers and the compulsory operation of an organisational unit responsible for respecting the General Commercial Register, GEMI, and with the responsibility of the Service of a Stage. But is that enough? There are again too many things you leave us to be clarified by ministerial decisions. This in itself gives another dimension to the concerns and objections expressed by the bodies at the relevant meeting of the committee. I would like, because a document from the Association of Borrowers and Consumer Protection of Northern Greece, as a Member of the European Parliament - which I shall be tabling in the Minutes - to refer to Rule 102. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Saridis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would like you to listen to the opinion of the Association of Dealers and Consumers of Northern Greece on the arrangements you bring through the provisions of this article: "The long-term pathogenesity of the Greek state, which is nothing but hydro-capitalism, demagogy and the customer system, is once again evident. Field of glory for the current government to create the party army by creating more than a hundred organic positions in the Private Debt Management Special Secretariat, which will obviously be covered by the individuals who will have a party booklet. The majority of the provisions are exhausted in the reorganisation and expansion of the administrative structure of the special secretariat, which, before even being able to take action, already needs to be increased by setting up dozens of new addresses and departments, such as the internal audit department, which is responsible solely for receiving complaints from citizens to the other departments of the special secretariat, which, however, have absolutely no contact with the citizen. Of course, comedy is not enough than formal organizational provisions. Unfortunately, it extends to the most important issue, which is the overcompensation of the private sector and the way it is dealt with. Here the bill only provides for the simple provision of advisory and only legal and economic services, not to all citizens, but only to those who fulfil the particularly strict criteria of low-income citizens. In the meantime, this cycle is becoming increasingly narrower and does not cover almost anyone, as, with the evidence of living established by the current government, there is almost no citizen who can join the programme. As long as an unemployed person has a small percentage of the patronage field in his village and already exceeds the limit set by the law to consider him as a low income citizen, and let him not have where the head bed. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] Madam President, you will allow me to speak for one more minute. Therefore, the tested small and medium-sized enterprises, small and medium-sized enterprises and those who still have the luxury of having a job cannot even resort to the SWRs, and even if they could, would receive only consultancy services and above all, from non-qualified staff, which would simply have been seconded for this reason. Unfortunately, this document concludes - implication and party political games in the backs of desperate borrowers continue unthinkable. That's what people are fighting for. These support people who do not have hope within them and seek to find hope for them to be able to keep on their feet and continue the next day. These people must be heard when we legislate. When we don't listen to them, we legislate about them, but without them. I'm closing up by making a report. You will allow me, Madam President, this report.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u92	Mr. Saridis, you've already spoken a minute and a half already. Carry on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u93	Madam President, I would like to speak about the two amendments which the Minister has not accepted. We do not see the reason in a bill, which speaks of development, to be indifferent to a sensitive social group, such as the Roma. Are we interested in combating the unemployment of these people? The amendment tabled by the Group of the European People's Party was intended to do so. Anyway, when will it get into the Ministry's planning to give some solutions to such socially sensitive groups? As also for the amendment tabled by the Independent Greeks. We also had, Minister, six to seven months ago tabled an amendment that you had not accepted. We had also given our positive vote, our support. You should review the way you see people, investors who have invested in our country and are currently being persecuted by the Greek banks, because this amendment comes to a problem...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u94	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u95	Please, Mr. Papadopoulos. This amendment comes to solve the problem of the investor, which has a problem with the banks. In a more general context, anyway, are we asking for investment in Greece? How will growth come? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u96	The speaker of the New Republic, Mr Giannakis, has the floor. Mr. Giannakis, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u97	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, with this bill, the government has the ambition of rationalising and confronting structural problems, which have been identified in two critical areas of domestic entrepreneurship, such as outdoor trade, namely public markets and chamber legislation. The attempt to reform the rural trade framework, based, in fact, on modern electronic applications clearly and welcome. In recent years, the years of the crisis have increased any distortions by the blooming of the paradox and by extension of the paradox, which has distorted healthy competition and in many cases even jeopardised consumer safety, since its existence has worked and acted as a brake on the activity of legal companies, which have to deal with thousands of other problems at the same time, such as the reduction of consumption, overtaxation, increased insurance contributions. People's markets have always been the productive cave that created and created a two-way benefit for both producers and consumers. The fact that the number of people's markets is constantly growing proves the usefulness of the institution, as it meets vital needs of the purchasing public trying to secure as cheaply as possible. I think it is my duty to mention that the Municipality of Preveza, the municipality of my city, in which, not least, it does not work a popular market, was the first pan-Hellenic municipality that wants to help deal with the humanitarian crisis on the one hand and, on the other, ensure an income to local producers, created the agricultural producer market in 2012, although there was no legislative framework covering this initiative. We were finally the first to create a market from the producer to the consumer without intermediaries. Contrary to what my colleague, Mr Barkas, said by the 2014 government law of the Samaras, these initiatives have been legislated since then and so far the market has been operating every Saturday, giving a financial way out to the poorest populaces in the region. We are fully aware of the social importance of the rural markets, especially in this difficult period for society and the economy, such as the one we are experiencing, which is why we have been very serious and responsible from the outset faced with this draft law with our processed proposals for improving legislation. My objection, ladies and gentlemen, lies in the way that the government continues to choose and legislate. Four bills in one. The result is to legislate roughly and to pass laws, which are either constantly amended, such as the Katorugalou Act, or which are not finally implemented. For this bill, in terms of popular markets, there are no doubt positive provisions, such as the electronic platform, quotas with social criteria and a reduction in fines. Here I would like to observe: the imprisonment for why you are adopting it? Here the former Minister of Justice has confessed that thousands of criminals have been in prison for the decongestion of the prisons, and you are in prison for up to six months for every out-of-the-spot violation. Isn't the fine enough for you? You also need to see the issue of tax and insurance information with tolerance, because when the Independent Authority of Public Revenue yesterday tells us that one out of two citizens are unable to pay taxes and contributions, that a million citizens already have a confiscation status and cannot get the required information, they will be in danger of losing and not getting the permission. Unless you believe that farmers and farmers are an exception to the rest of the population and that they, in the perpetual sense of the times, prosper and go great and do not owe above all. There are, however, provisions which they only do are to make the licensing framework even more bureaucratic. Procedures are becoming even more complex and time-consuming, since different assessments are required, multi-level meetings, administrative and regional council decisions, evaluations, accreditation acts of mayors, regional authorities and so on. As far as the provisions for chambers are concerned, it is undoubtedly the engine of local society for development and the more independent it is, the better. It is important to set up the Business Support Centres that will function as a JEP to facilitate the communication and trade of enterprises with the public, as well as the responsibilities, as set out, for the specific GEMI units. But there is a very big issue, Minister, and that is the issue of the elections to the Chambers. For two and a half years you are supposed to have discussed the reform of the Chamber of Commerce and now, one month before the election, no one knows what parameters these elections will take. No one knows which electoral system will prevail, how many will be and who will be the crosses, how the elections will take place, how the combinations will go down. Although you have been provoked to the committee for this, you have not given an answer. It is no coincidence that with regard to electoral procedures it is planned to enter into force since the vote, that is, from now on, and in all other provisions, 1 January 2018. Isn't that a transcript of the government's surprise in the chambers? Isn't that a tranquil demonstration of micro-political feasibility, an attempt at electoral manipulation? There are two speed candidates, those who know, who have information from within on how the elections will take place and those who do not know. There is confusion about quotas, confusion about voting, confusion about sectoral votes. The chambers have already set the date of the election and do not know which conditions they will be holding. I shall end by saying that the way to the modernisation required and the overall recovery is neither fast nor easy. The implementation of this law will be judged in practice and I sincerely hope that your good intentions will not be left alone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u98	Thank you, too. The New Republic's parliamentary representative, Mr Javarra, has asked for the floor. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u99	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill which the government is introducing today for discussion and vote is indeed being offered for a democratic dialogue and - I would say - and it is undeniably necessary if we really want to be useful to those whose interests we represent in this Chamber. The first thing we need to stress is the historical lesson coming out of this legacy and it is no more than the fact that the same historical conditions always produce the same little - very phenomena. The institutions of the people's markets have not been devised by the present government, nor by the previous one. It is an institution to which Eleftherios Venizelos resorted in May 1929, when after the global economic crisis he realized that economic and social life were suffocating under increasing food accuracy and by the increasing purchasing power of citizens. That's why the National Eleftherios Venizelos then quickly, without the help of a troika, in order to appease the lenders, took urgent measures. One of these measures was to create measures to protect the social system - the JRC paid it back at the time - and at the same time to take measures to protect citizens' freedoms in order to prevent these turmoils from the strikes that had already begun to grow. The institution, however, which has really remained in history, is the institution of the people's markets. This institution, which, for the first time on May 18, 1929, operated in the square of Thessios, was the institution that the then Prime Minister resorted to give producers the opportunity to have access to the large urban centres and to be exempted from the middlemen who had condemned them to economic aberration because they had been forced into long-term credit. At the same time, through this institution, it gave the citizens of large urban centres the opportunity to find and buy quality products in the primary sector at very good prices. In fact, under the same historical circumstances of the crisis we are going through, the government understood that. I do not know whether it is an indication of the institutions, but it is something to which we need to look at to create conditions for a genuinely well-functioning agri-foodstuffs market, which is very important for the maintenance of vulnerable but also the medium-sized social strata from the economic crisis. But this historic lesson which I could say today that the Minister, who takes the legislative initiative, has all the virtues and teach it and demonstrate it, tarnishes the provision of Article 37 which, in all this truly acceptable regulation from the New Democracy and the other parties, carries a party wickedness of the government. And this party wickedness is to name a form, which does not have the characteristics of the market as a place where sales of products take place. I think, Minister, that you are in every sense sufficient to teach us what purchase means. And because I do not have your own knowledge, I have had to resort to those who have shaped these concepts. And as you well know, these are two: Augusten Kurnos and Alfred Marshall. They did, in fact, provide a knowledge-based tool, shaping the concept of the market as the theoretical place in which supply and demand meet, in which those who offer goods and those who buy goods are able to communicate freely. Through this whole process of free communication, through the process of competition which is also free competition, what is ultimately achieved is the formation of a single value of the value of the like products. And please tell me, first of all, in this area you are organizing under Article 37, who have the right to enter as producers and, secondly, how is it possible beforehand for those who have the exclusive right to organise such a market, twenty days before it becomes necessary for them to announce who will be fully involved, which products will also make available to them the most important, that is to say, for the ridicule of every concept and operation of the market, to determine prices. Does that mean buying in your opinion? Well, obviously not. I believe that this cartoon of the market which the provision of Article 37 regulates or portrays has forced you in your speech not to mention it at all. But here there is also a bigger issue. You are talking about buying consumers, and even within the meaning of Article 10 of Law 2251/1994, that is, the law which the state has drafted, has voted to protect consumers. There, therefore, as consumer associations, legal persons who, as the law says, have exclusive purpose to protect the interests and rights of consumers. In your understanding, does the sole purpose which the law has recognised to consumers' associations have anything to do with the purpose served by these provisions? And I say directly: you are therefore saying in paragraph 1 of Article 37 that the purpose of consumer markets is to develop consumer awareness. But the development of consumer awareness cannot be developed, organized through markets which, as I said before, are intended to give producers and buyers the opportunity to trade. What one might say is that it is the development of consumer consciousness, the legislator of Law 2251/1994 has entrusted it exclusively with the consumer associations, which he is funding, to which he gives all the means necessary to cultivate and advertise what it means to the consumer, which is very important and important. I would like to open a parable: Correct the word 'active'. So you say, 'develop consumer awareness through active participation'. Such a word "active" does not exist in Greek. It's the active, active or active, the active, the active, the active. And I say this, because the House is once again being arrested, in the legislative initiatives of the Government, to abuse the Greek language. And that doesn't honor any of us. If, in fact, the Minister with the legislative initiative also happens to be a university teacher, you can understand that things are much worse. So you have to withdraw this provision because it does not offer anything to the market organisation and, above all, to the market we need to organise today in the conditions of the economic crisis. Because this market exists in the form of the people's markets, because these people's markets ensure the supply of products in the primary sector without intermediaries - that is the definition of the people's markets - and because, finally, this must be underlined - there cannot be closed markets which, you say, develop or cultivate consumer consciousness. On the contrary, the consciousness you cultivate in markets, which have in advance been excluded from producers or traders, on the basis of criteria that are opaque or on the basis of company criteria or ideological or party criteria, what they eventually do is create a morbid climate in economic relations, a morbid climate in society. Above all, I fear that through these closed circuits in the meeting of specific associations in the field of the market, what will be constantly degraded is consumer consciousness. In this respect, I think that all SYRIZA colleagues, if they think so, should be opposed. One last thing. Because in the last few days, but before that, we have all tended to make the prosecutors out of this step, I have seen a colleague who has been speaking, supposedly - the spirit of the leadership of the New Democracy. Have many of you, ladies and gentlemen, thought that the leadership of this party has given this place much more than anyone can imagine when it fantasizes the society in which all these situations lead, which we are experiencing today on the part of your party? And since I do not want to bore you, Madam President, I will borrow one of the most successful and unsuccessful definitions of morality, the one that has given us by a great philosopher, Emmanuel Kad:'morally he does, who can always by his behavior confirm a rule of general acceptance'. That's the definition of morality. So if anyone who comes to the Step and represents the moral or criminal prosecutor, he did the trouble before he opened his mouth to pass or check his own or his companions' behavior through this very suffering of categorical order, then I believe that things would have been much easier in this Chamber in terms of honest and honest democratic dialogue. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u100	Because every Member or Parliamentary representative, when he speaks, does not have the floor, I would like to tell you that many prosecutors have intervened in the meantime on various occasions! Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-five students and students and four teachers attending the 2nd Gymnasium Sparta. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Papadopoulos, please, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u101	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, what have I realized by taking the floor from the Step? How important it is for all the progressive people to see the speech of the colleague. I understand the following: because the main representative of the New Democracy is a New Democracy and I am SYRIZA. It could not understand the solidarity economy, it cannot understand the reasons for markets without intermediaries, people's relations with the product. He saw the word'market'. Yes, that's our difference with the New Democracy. He only sees purchases. It's that simple. And I would like many to hear that speech in order to really understand why it is a New Democracy and why we are left. That's our difference.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u102	I wish you'd understand it first.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u103	You're drawing conclusions again. The draft law, which we are debating today, is, in the joint confession of producers and operators - who participate and participate in the long term, exhausting, for one and a half years, a dialogue with the Ministry of Economy and Development - and which was reflected in the most official way, at the relevant meeting of the Committee on Production and Trade, an important legislative initiative by the Government, in my opinion. The first part of the draft law sets out the terms and conditions for the operation of specific outdoor commercial activities, which I will mention in detail below in my speech. The second part of the draft law aims to develop the chamber institution, to upgrade it as a State adviser. Finally, the third part contains provisions of the Ministry of Economy and Development, which deal with several important issues, with the institutional armouring and improvement of the functioning of the coordination centre for market surveillance and management of the market, the Joint Centre, the adequate and aptituded staff of the Hellenic Investment and External Trade Company, known as ENTERPRISE GREECE. It also contains changes to the organisational units of the Private Debt Management Secretariat and some important changes to the development law. A very important provision, which highlights the social nature of the law, is that of Article 103, which reduces to EUR 500 any fines paid under Law 4264/2014. In other words, it reduces to a large extent the exterior fines of 5,000 euros which had been imposed. Obviously it is impossible for a seven-minute speech to cover all matters and issues. I shall therefore confine myself to the regulations concerning outdoor trade. For the first time, it is attempting to put rules in place at last, and above all, to apply to the unreserved landscape of rural trade. Because it is known to everyone that with previous PASOK and New Democracy governments, negligence or ignorance, but completely politically appropriate to serve small-party client interests, rural trade has been left free of charge to maladministration that has led to the phenomena of conflicts, interests between sectors involved and the clearing intrusion. The absence of authorisation, the movement of products without documentary evidence, the movement of "migrant" products, rusfetological treatment, complexity, strong tax evasion are elements that characterised this sector. For us, SYRIZA, rural trade can and must be a pillar of the development of the modern economy. That is why we are hitting the roots of pathogens in this bill. Firstly, multi-legislation, diversity, multi-archy, with the many categories of rural trade permits, with the many public services involved in the management of the relevant issues and have created a challenging framework for the administration's responsibilities and bodies. Secondly, the many unregulated issues which result in the operation of rural trade not being based on a clear, complete and easily applicable institutional framework and critical issues, such as the way in which the retailers of the public markets or the markets without intermediaries are treated, the spatial power of certain categories of rural trade. It is still quite uncertain enough. The result of this is that phenomena of legal arbitrary and disproportionate sanctions appear. Thirdly, the lack of an integrated information system, a single reliable database, which will include all the sellers, the types of licences per county and the items sold, the popular markets and the number of positions in them, the infringements, the administrative sanctions imposed and many other elements. And how do we solve this? The main aim of the bill is to simplify and rationalise the procedures for issuing and renewing licences, strengthen equality and clarify issues of the competence of management bodies, regulate supervision and control of rural trade. We give the producer the opportunity to operate in an organised rural trade market either individually or by participating in cooperative schemes. We ensure transparency, objectivity, the allocation of the positions of sellers using social criteria, but also professional consistency. We establish collective bodies and procedures for consultation, participation, action and responsibility. We record all forms of outdoor trade in detail and simplify authorisation and renewal procedures. We unify the conditions for granting and renewing a licence, whether it is an outdoor trade, a planetary or a stopover, and the supporting documents certifying a qualification, especially by the producer. As far as professional licences are concerned, we maintain and strengthen their social character by combining the basic condition of unemployment with income criteria, reducing the supporting documents for granting and renewing licences. The administrative burden of services is also reduced. We establish an electronic system for recording and passing the unemployed. We record all forms of outdoor trade and those employed in it on an electronic platform for better supervision, cross-checking of data and controls and the safeguarding of sanctions imposed. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We are exploring the producers' alternatives to the placing on the market of their products, allowing them to issue a licence for outdoor trade automatically outside the public market. We are establishing consumer markets, involving exclusively farmers or cooperatives, markets without intermediaries, legally recognising this great social solidarity movement. We ensure the viability of professionals with the premium on the professional's popular markets, which comes to the people's markets less than six days a week. We ensure legality in all forms and categories of rural trade and at the same time establish the book of migration volumes, thus clarifying the landscape of all kinds of smuggling and irregularities in the movement of fruit and vegetables. We are establishing a moleculosis system with criteria that combine social characteristics, such as family status, the number of children and the lack of infringibility. We streamline the amounts of fines and, at the same time, we are already investigating sanctions, which are recorded in the Sanctions Register. We are inspiring the democratic and transparent functioning of the people's markets with the mechanism of consultation and co-management on people's markets from the producer's administration to bodies. We decentralise the committees at regional level, thus strengthening proper supervision and participation of the parties involved. To sum up, I consider this draft law to be an excellent and sound legislative initiative. At last, Immigration is brought about by creative and fair regulation of social and professional groups, which are many, but also with conflicting interests.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u104	Mr. Papadopoulos, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u105	I shall conclude, Madam President. And, of course, since his vote tomorrow, we have lifted the sleeves and fought for its implementation, in order to justify the labors, struggles and expectations of all the producers involved, but also of consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u106	Thank you. Ms. Theodora Big Housekeeper has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u107	Thank you, Madam President. I would first of all like to wish for many years in the Hellenic Air Force, which every day competes in the ethers in difficult situations and protects our country. I would also like to wish many years for all the Members who are celebrating today who are too many. I would first like to refer to the following: seeing Parliament today and taking the Vice-President of the New Democracy as an example, I think that today in Parliament there has been a battle and we are talking about issues outside of the bill. We've put the bar back on who's gonna say the most and who's gonna exalt the other one more. Mr. Vice President spoke of Mrs. Mitsotakis and what statements he has, about Mr. Papadimitriou, etc. I don't think he was talking about the bill. So I'm taking the opportunity to talk about the oil spill myself. We are now talking about no matter where the bill is concerned. I'm gonna talk about the oil spill. Mr Georgiadis - Mr Adonis Georgiadis, not to be confused with Mr Marios Georgiadis, the Vice-President - spoke of Ms Mitsotakis and Mr Papadimitriou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u108	Mrs Big Economics, however, there is also the President who runs the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u109	Madam President, I apologise, but you didn't interrupt him, so why interrupt me? I'm going to talk about something about this House. I won't talk about any matters. If the Vice-President wanted to fight, he could do it on television, not here, in Parliament! So, I'm talking about the oil spill. I asked a timely question yesterday and the Minister replied to me that the measures in the oil spill are permitted, as far as possible, etc. And he gave me the honors. Prices are for surface water and up to eight meters. I asked them to give me the bottom measurements for the sewage that are found on the bottom. I want these measurements to give me! So I can talk about other issues too. Anyway, let's deal with the issue, which concerns us. In general, today's bill is not only necessary for the operation of the already diverse Greek economy, but it actually comes too late. The regulation of all rural trade issues is an absolute necessity of our time, but there has been a long time ago. In fact, let us not forget that all kinds of world and world trade and the people's markets are points of sale, often chosen by consumers as a priority and now quite widespread. I would now like to make a few comments on the bill. First of all, the three-member Article 12 committees, which will monitor the quantities declared in order to identify those who are illegal, will play a decisive role in the rural trade. Of course, in this important role will play the ministerial decision which will then be adopted and which will define exactly how the checks are to be carried out, as long as genuinely intensive sampling checks are carried out and the audit mechanisms are not left again with another theoretical structure. In particular, provision is made for the licensing of a professional seller for outdoor trade. It is crucial that the legality is fully respected and that we have genuine notices from the regional authority concerned so that we do not face photo criteria and that there is objectivity throughout the entire process. The citizens have been exhausted by such tactics and demand that there be transparency at all levels at last. Article 27 is, in my opinion, one of the most important articles in the draft law, which, unfortunately, records everything that needs to be done for the proper functioning of the people's markets and, above all, for the cleanliness and limits of the public market, which, unfortunately, have not been implemented so far. Of course, the concern here is not to leave the order empty but to see changes in practice. With regard to the daily fee - Article 36 - the question is whether it is actually exploited by the individual municipalities, in order to have decent conditions of operation in the people's markets. After all, this is a tax and not a tax, and it is therefore necessary that we all in practice see the rewarding nature of the money paid by licence holders and not that this money should be used to close other holes in the OTA budget. The regulation we are seeing for the first time is for consumer markets. This is an interesting proposal in the context of the solidarity economy, but it is not certain in practice whether it can work efficiently. It remains to be seen in the future and, above all, to ensure that there are no phenomena of such solidarity. The so-called 'broker-free market' emerged in the years of the crisis as a need for consumers to have access to products without additional intermediate costs. Therefore, the fact that the state has so long been indifferent to this form of trade is the least hypocritical. About Article 39 and all kinds of parks, we have known history because of the tragic incident a few years ago with a victim in the thirteenth year. It's a long story in Greek reality. We are already too late to legislate because, in fact, these kinds of thematic parks are still in a semi-legal status. I shall now refer to the huge chapter of the bill on world trade. The framework of this bill is extremely necessary in order to try to put a order in the regime of absolute lawlessness and infringibility of the global vendors. It will probably also help the new electronic database, in order to have effective control, to make proper use of the electronic platform and, above all, to implement the law. The bill also includes a broad chapter on chambers. In recent years, Minister, along with the business crisis there has also been a visible disappearance of the role of the chambers. Chambers must assume an upgraded role and be an important core of information and promotion of business as a whole. It is not allowed for their role to be almost decorative and to be exhausted only in the collection of contributions and in events. Their degradation exists and the government in question must treat chambers as serious equal interlocutors in matters that arise. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me a minute more, Madam President. I would like to make a brief comment in Article 108, where there is a political democratic regression. The Single Independent Public Procurement Authority is currently required to give its assent to normal acts relating to public contracts other than public contracts. Now, with the new regulation, there is no need for the assent of the principle. And so - I stress this - the Minister will decide on his own. In fact, the explanatory statement justifies this change with a vague reference to possible problems in the adoption of ministerial decisions, without even mentioning whether or not there will ever be such problems in practice. However, in a truly democratic country, we should support the strengthening of independent authorities and not lower their roles. Independent authorities are very important. And I now come to the main issue, which is the paradox, which is perhaps the greatest wound to the Greek economy after overtaxation. According to the Hellenic Confederation of Trade and Entrepreneurship, the Greek State loses more than EUR 3.5 billion annually from tax revenues due to the counterfeit trade, while the total losses in the real economy amount to EUR 17 to 20 billion each year. In a country that has reached its budget to such a extent that it is forced to cut the minimum euro from the low pensioner, it is totally unacceptable that such astronomical amounts should be lost. To date, controls on the control of the market have been completely dubious and, above all, they have not brought any impressive results. It is extremely humiliating years now to see in the center of the capital outside the Athens University of Economics on a daily basis tens of illegal product vendors - "mus" and on the other hand, the image of the devastated Patisiou street, one of the most commercial streets of Athens until a few years ago, and the state is completely absent, not interested. And the government, despite the election announcements, has made no substantial progress in the fight against the illegal trade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u110	Ms. Big Economics, you've been over time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u111	Just a minute, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u112	You're in ten minutes, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u113	Just a minute, Madam President. In fact, a year ago, I tabled number 123/18-10-2016 a timely question to the Minister of Economy, on the issue of the illegal trade. I'll redeposit it. You have answered me, Minister, but unfortunately nothing has changed dramatically. Trade clubs have a big problem. Legislative companies must survive rather than survive the offshore, which is not taxed, which has no insurance contributions, which sells products -'mummy', and we let them take advantage of them. The SYCAP - ESA very little can do with the size of the problem. If the paramilitary trade is not broken and we do not help the law-abiding citizens, the Greek economy will collapse even further. If you fail, we, the Greek Parliament, do not support the fight against the illegal trade and thus leave them, gentlemen of the government, the responsibility will be yours and yours alone. I am presenting for the Minutes the topical and urgent question and the measurements from 2 November. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Theodora Megalonikou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u114	As all speakers are over time, I have set out when the Parliamentary Representatives will speak and I am out of time. Mr. Loverdo, will you speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u115	After two.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u116	Okay. Mrs Vaki has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u117	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today is a very important step towards promoting the economy with social recompense. With this bill, therefore, the position of rural trade is based on the country's social and economic life and a more favourable basis is created for the development of collaborative logic, for promoting the solidarity economy, for strengthening the small farmer, the small family-run agricultural enterprise, the crafts sector and artistic creation. With this bill we leave once and for all a suffocating framework imposed on the countryside by the laws of PASOK and New Democracy, a legislative framework from which we will always remember the extermination fines imposed on the violator of the fighting that sold chestnuts or the great lady who sold minimum-value products from her garden to cope with the extreme poverty she was experiencing. Today's bill comes to cover, after two years of dialogue with all operators, all the issues relating to the activity of rural trade by the people's market, fair trade and the global and landslide trade to markets without intermediaries, outdoor entertainment and street artists. The main axes of the bill are the strengthening of rural trade, the expansion of the goods that can be included in it, the strengthening of the consumer's association with local products on land and traditional gastronomy, and the consequent improvement of the quality of life and nutrition, support for the rural family economy and the expansion of the participation of mutual business regimes in the social and economic life of each place. In this context, I would like to refer to a number of key regulations in this bill. The first concerns, of course, the rationalisation of fines in particular to bio-populists, small-scale offshore traders and the resolution of the problems of poor people, to whom the previous law had charged too much fines. These fines are considerably reduced while unlike black economy scientists, who systematically violate the law and affect the people's market and the rural world of hardship, fines remain high. So we will never see images of analgesia again against the inappropriate brown, the supreme lady or the poor farmer after this bill, images that have been hurt and angered by Greek society. The second important issue that introduces, in relation to rural trade, this bill is that of the expansion of the people's markets with more products of cottage and traditional processing, such as products from small cheeses or from small distilleries, as well as the strengthening of the producer's role in relation to that of the trader. In the same context is the festival. The festival is reintroduced into the social life of each place. Trade fairs acquire a framework of stable operation, with clear terms and without bureaucratic claws and popular entertainment finds its place in the economy of rural trade in a legitimate, simple and secure way. One of the most comprehensive arrangements of the bill is the one which institutionalises and stabilises the functioning of the consumer markets in all the cities of Greece, in cooperation with local government, and in particular with the promotion of the social and solidarity economies. Consumer markets, known to all of us as'markets without intermediaries', now take their proper place, and the state stops stumbling their operation. On this basis, these markets can also develop into nurseries of newly developed solidarity companies, as we have seen recently in the very worthwhile report of the social and solidarity economy that took place in the 'Technopolis', but can also help to develop wider social and environmental concerns about consumer behaviour, eating habits or natural resources. At this point, I would also like to make a reference to a regulation which I consider to be part of this bill, which concerns road artists, craftsmen, those who wish to place their works on the outdoors. Under Article 45 of the bill, this cultural activity comes out of the margin of the shadow economy, to which it had been condemned by bureaucracy over the past few years. Street artists, painters, visualists, craftsmen, creators of popular art are given status and can now sell their works legally. The foothills of Thassio, for example, with the provisions of this bill, can gain the glamorousness of Europe's most well-known outdoor artistic markets, such as the ones of Seine and Monmartis, by restoring the artistic activity developed in the shadow of the Acropolis for two and a half thousand years and which has been so chased and used for so long. Ladies and gentlemen, with the rules on outdoor trade the economy of solidarity and fair trade is taking another step forward. Following the bills for agricultural cooperatives and social and solidarity economy, the rural trade arrangements come to complement a grid of arrangements and interventions for the benefit of economic relations, proximity and the small market. Faced with the prevalence of economic relations between intact competition, blind consumerism and excessive profit accumulation, SYRIZA remains a champion of the economy with a centre for man, fair growth and productive reconstruction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u118	Mrs Kafantaris, a member of SYRIZA in Athens, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u119	Good evening. Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating a bill today - a section in the sensitive sector - and I stress this - rural trade. It is a bill that finally sets order, regularity, rules, justice, full legality and, of course, social sensitivity in this sensitive rural trade area, which is a significant pillar of development. Outdoor trade, ladies and gentlemen - and I would like to emphasise this, because it can also be used as such - is not an auxiliary economy. The number of people employed in rural trade is not inappropriate. They are professionals with dignity, rights, but also obligations. There are many former housing merchants who have had to close their shops and work in this area in the years of the crisis. It is an area that has been used for years by all kinds of powers, small and large, with chronic pathogens regarding the licensing regime and with strong customer relations to dominate. It's an area with a lot of bureaucracy to date. That's why I'm saying this bill is important. It is about rationalising all the functions of rural trade. This bill is a comprehensive proposal of all forms of outdoor trade, without bureaucracy and pluralism. Of particular importance - and I would like to dwell on this - is that the public consultation, until the bill comes to the House, was very important. Many bodies have participated, not to say the majority of the players in rural trade in all forms, as well as the part of the chambers we will be talking about later, because the bill includes such arrangements. There has been a very important dialogue in the Committee on Production and Trade. I would say that there have been forty-two bodies - beyond and outside, of course, from the Rules of Procedure, which, as we know, provides for far fewer - and which have been given the opportunity to express opinions and proposals. The important thing is that because this government is listening - and we have seen it in too many bills - many of the agencies' proposals have been accepted by the Ministry as well and we have improvements and some changes. I would also like to say something touching. This concerns the participation in the consultation of the Committee of Roma representatives and bodies, who welcomed the interest of the House, as for the first time, as their representative said, they were given the opportunity to come and say their views on a bill in Parliament. After all, this bill generally concerns the special sensitive groups of the Greek population, and of course the Roma communities, through specific social criteria. In the context of rationalisation, we consider it very important to record all forms of rural trade, to have an information system and to cross-check data, to control the process with a view to reducing infractions, concrete measures for the illegal trade with the Coordinating Centre for the Restoration of the Ministry of National Economy, which is essentially and will be strengthened at the Ministry of National Economy. We must also say about the part of the sanctions which are now being streamlined. It's about fines and all that. The previous colleague was mentioned in more detail. It also concerns a register of such penalties and the electronic recording of all of them. Of course, it is important to introduce the social criteria into the licensing process through a specific moleculosis. The description, too, of the framework for the operation of consumer markets, the well-known 'without intermediaries', which has helped and supported society in recent years of the crisis, is included in the bill and, in some ways, issues of the legitimacy of this process are resolved. But I am going to close with the very important one, in my view, which is that rural trade is no longer a closed profession. There is an opening up of this profession. That's very important. In this draft law, ladies and gentlemen, the second part concerns chambers. Their institution is being modernised and upgraded. The role of chambers in the development process is decisive. We have the coordinating body referred to as the Regional Chamber of Commerce which incorporates chamber actions into the broader development planning of the regions. This is very important, because the role of chambers is to contribute, as government advisers, to the development of this country and regionally proportionately. I consider it very important that the issues of the electoral system in chambers that have more proportional representation. The information and support centre for enterprises provided for in this bill is also very important. Of course, let us not forget the gender quota in the Chambers' board elections. And that is very important, because there is another reason to say equality in words and to establish things in legislation in that direction. In conclusion, I would say that this bill must all be passed. It concerns, as I said, a sensitive sector which is important in the development process of the country with its own role, but which is important. As the bill has been consulted, we will see the course with its implementation. The Government and the Ministry are open to further improvements. This also concerns rural trade. It is, of course, about the part that has to do with the court proceedings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u120	Thank you, too. Mr Loverdos, the Parliamentary Representative of Democratic Independence, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u121	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the title of the bill that we are now discussing, supporting or criticising, and we will shortly be voting on, should have been used as a principle and its provisions. Because I cannot believe in this Chamber that there is even one Member of Parliament or a Member of Parliament who does not want to take a class in the anarchy of the countryside. And I cannot imagine that on such a matter one of us has better intentions than another. We all have the same good intentions. And when a party governs, it depends on whether such issues, which are not policy-intensive, the provisions of its draft law can work effectively in the field of the market and help a good government policy or not. Generally speaking, we believe that for three whole years in the area of the economy, whether public finances or private economy, this government is led by failure, from a problem to a problem, from proof of clumsiness to proof of new clumsiness. You have created many problems and you have exacerbated the economic and social problems of the country, the economic and social problems of the citizens, the Greek people. Now, in the current draft law, the Minister said what he said, its provisions are the mirror of what he thinks, and of the three sections, our rapporteur, Mr Constantinople, has, I think, been thoroughly demonstrated why this draft law, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, needs to be voted down. You have also strongly criticised, but you have come to another final conclusion. We end up in a negative vote and this, I think, is clear, because it goes hand in hand with the foundation that we have done: Firstly, as far as the countryside is concerned, its provisions will be poorer - I repeat - as you see the people's markets. As far as the elections in the Chambers are concerned, I have been following for many years and for which I would stress that in the summer we voted for an amendment from the Ministry of Economy which would make it easier for the election to take place, bringing rules which are far too far apart from what you have previously promised on a mere proportional basis. And as far as the individual arrangements are concerned, you make four ruffles. We cannot vote for such a draft law. And because there is also the Minister who deals with development issues, I find the opportunity to 'go' to the table of our parliamentary dialogue 'fresh coups'. Minister, is it true that since 2010, for the first time in 2017, indirect taxes have been increasing in relation to direct taxes and is there a more classic policy than that? Is it true what I say or isn't it true? It's true. It results from evidence. It has been valued by ELSTAT itself. Is this your achievement, you protectors of the Greek people? Have you realised that your policy is absolutely hostile to the interests of the great majority of the Greek people? Since ELSTAT is a Authority that now respects all Greeks and all Greeks and the European Union, it has been a credible interlocutor for years with the respective principles of other Member States, the Member States of the euro area and of the European Union and the eurozone as a whole, we must listen to what it says to us. And it is our party that has transformed ELSTAT since 2010 into a trustworthy body whose data you respect, can be common data for all political parties whether they defend or be blamed for a government policy. It tells you that we have a 2.3% reduction in household income compared to 2015. Every year and worse. You have confessed, your ministers have confessed to me - in my opinion - the most cynical way, and the Minister of Finance and his deputy, have defended your policies with the arguments of a class war against the middle class, that is, against the backbone of the Greek economy, at the expense of a order that has been beneficial for the past decades, and this euphemism has given Greece, Greece, Metapolisticism, the traits of a historic period in terms of the well-being of the Greeks, which has not been compared to the previous decades, for two hundred years that exists in the modern Greek state. Against this backbone of the Greek economy, you have put it in a way that is completely shy, in a way that exposes you. You are kneeling charges of tens of thousands of professionals, tens of thousands of people who have had another course in the Greek economy for years. You have to admit that your measures are unfair, but that is your policy, as you are supposed to support the poorest. But that's not the way it is. ELSTAT's data disguise you in a very specific and explicit way. Do you dare confront the Greek middle class - please forgive me the likes, rhetoric are, but are they, I think, accurate - like dolls you are threatening libation, so that the road opens to where? To some socialist society? Which way? What's your goal? What's your new supposed face? Because, in my opinion, you have a person and I keep saying it in my speeches in the House: whether by election in January 2015 or by election in September 2015 or today, you are a party, the demagogy party, the liar party, the party of a political game that is not honest too many times and that is distributed with crypt-smart smart guys like those for the forty-footed and the other great things that the Humorist Minister of Finance said. Ladies and gentlemen, I will close my speech with a broader subject of my parliamentary powers as a parliamentary representative of the Democratic Independence. I have truly resented as a Greek citizen, as a politician I have many years of responsibility for foreign and defence from the side of the Democratic Alliance, formerly of PASOK, and for a very short, very short period I have been a State Secretary for Foreign Affairs. I really felt indignation and anger about how the leadership of the Ministry of National Defence acted on a senior officer with thirty-five years of good, unprecedented service - man I have never seen him in my life, I do not know him - a humiliation with handcuffs, a threat of imprisonment, a pre-conceited arrest, why, instead of congratulation? Because he saved our country - to his credit - from a scandal of dimensions, which I do not know if it is economic. I don't know these things, nor do I get involved in my political path with such issues, but it can be ‘or may be a scandalous policy that has to do with the arms embargo in Yemen. We'll choose and get it at the time of developments. The man who rescued the country, instead of congratulating him, is threatening him. The government's leadership threatens him, and the mediators are threatening him. The majority Parliamentary spokesman for the majority spoke, of course, on the open markets, about the abolition of middlemen, but I strongly want to tell her that the middlemen are holding well. In 2016, during the summer, the service talks of the Ministry of National Defence with a specific mediator company, which was involved in the case that currently concerns publicity and has become controversial. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Andreas Loverdos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So this senior officer, instead of congratulating him, is threatened. He's threatened by mediators, he's also threatened by the leadership of the Ministry of National Defence with handcuffs. These things I am referring to and which have been commented on in and out of halloween with great honor? Should we be happy about this, or should we end this story? We therefore call on the Minister, without demagogues, without populism. And he sends documents which he claims today. Not to us, because he has not answered us yet, but to the New Democracy. [[At the point, the end of the speaker's speaking time is ringing.]] And through the documents he sends - and this I will close - what do we see, ladies and gentlemen? We see that a transnational agreement has been signed - and for F-16 we were told that this is a method of interfering with equipment, without entering middlemen, a state-led agreement signed by the Greek Ministry of National Defence with an intermediary, supposedly a representative of Saudi Arabia. We look at this agreement and see a text without ethnic names, under a signature by a Greek company, which is supposed to be proxy. We are looking at the proxy that has been sent to us yesterday - the Minister put it before us - to see if it is valid, because he signs it in an unusual manner an officer from Saudi Arabia, in retirement today, but not as he is used to by the highest grades or the highest step of the Ministry of National Defence in that country. So it is very important to negotiate, not to sign an agreement. And a deal is signed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u122	Mr. Loverdo, I'm sorry, but there's not going to be any special conversation about this. We're talking about popular markets.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u123	I'm closed, Madam President. I'm done. My reference is not to exercise parliamentary control here. My reference here is to support from the highest step in public dialogue a person I do not know, but who raised up his stature, who saved the honour of the country and who is corrupted. But the truth is here! And the lie has short feet. The preliminary examination will end. Every scoundrel will go to his counter. And we will be given the opportunity and the rest of the information I had to say - but time does not allow me - to give them to the public. No document, Madam President, on this matter will remain a secret. No document will be kept secret! And I hope that all of us - not only us or each party alone, but all of us - will be careful in this case so that dramatic events of this kind do not happen again, dramatic situations at the expense of people who have defended their homeland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u124	Ladies and gentlemen, it is known in this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after being informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", forty-six students and students and four teachers from the 2nd Municipal School of Artemis Lower Lesothos Magnesia. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Members speak, the Parliamentary Representatives and, of course, the Minister are speaking here at Step for a bill on the people's markets. As long as you are, you'll watch. Thank you very much for visiting the House. The speaker of SYRIZA, Mr Mardas, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u125	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I shall begin with a few things that have been heard in this House and have nothing to do with it. But since they were heard, they need an answer. I come to my dear colleagues in the New Democracy and to the noise that has erupted for Paradise Papers and the Cayman Islands, which are considered tax havens. These are not the only tax havens on this planet. We also have the Jersey Islands in England, we have Luxembourg, we also had Cyprus. And there someone can find a tax haven and do their jobs. What, though, is the difference between the Caymans and the others I said? The Caymans retain the anonymity of the person concerned and do not have to cooperate with any tax authority. This is the difference between these islands. And from there on, the conclusions are yours. On the issues of transparency which are often raised, if you want us to get into a process - and we Members of this House also have to take part - where we were going to see our own enrichment in here and, yet, follow another method with international standards rather than what is being done here, do a committee and start seeing what you had in mind. And to start from a Member's starting point - it means the first period that was elected - to date and to see the dynamics of enrichment and start from where we were looking. But looking won't be what's going on here. It'll be in the form of the place where the IMO is doing it. That means that when a sister comes, a brother, a aunt, a father-in-law, a mother-in-law, and says that I gave you 5 million, then the ILO goes and asks the mother-in-law, the sister-in-law, the brother-in-law, "Where did you get them?" That can't be done here, though. Whenever you want to do it. And I know this method very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u126	Bring it in. You're a government. Sounds good.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u127	Let's see whether you agree or suddenly find human rights opinions. I don't know, something can be heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u128	Bring it!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u129	Don't be in a hurry. We are in a process of preparing a proposal. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] I now come to my dear colleague, Mr Loverdos, on a subject which has already been raised. From what I have heard, you said that today the relationship between direct and indirect taxes is the worst relationship.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u130	Since 2010, according to ELSTAT data.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u131	2010 was 60.6% of indirect taxes and the rest, 39.4%, direct taxes. We're about the same. It does not mean that this is good, but it is not unprecedented what we are living in now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u132	Can I say something?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u133	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u134	Mr. President, may I? I'm allowed by my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u135	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u136	According to ELSTAT's data...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u137	It is the figures of last year's state budget, which is ELSTAT's.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u138	Yeah. The relationship has been measured...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u139	Direct taxes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u140	Yeah. I have pointed out their relationship, not the absolute numbers, and there is a number of tenths of worsening. Look at it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u141	Yes, but I repeat that this percentage of indirect taxes in relation to others, today, is not something unprecedented that we are living in, nor is it so different from the past. I come to this law. I'm going to make some remarks about rural trade. It is a good law, if not very good law, but of course, as we say, "the foul of good is the best". There can always be improvements, which can be done now, later. We in Thessaloniki with the farmers of New Machinery and Epinomia worked quite extensively on this particular subject. We've tabled a number of proposals to the Ministry. Many of them have been and have been incorporated. That is very good, I can say, because the Ministry has shown a wide range of proposals that have arisen from the debate that has developed over the past two years, which has been a difficult debate, because we have had a difficult bill. We are simply talking about some other improvements, which can be incorporated at the last minute. In Article 11, for example, interested parties may submit to the committee responsible - writes the article - two months before harvest. We say 'until' two months before harvest. For example, there are spinach forty - five days. As far as autopsy is concerned, it becomes a very good autopsy mechanism. We propose a small improvement, which refers to the product concerned: that it can be placed and that it can be used in the context of autopsy. In Rule 28, we believe that a representative of the trade union should be added to the Committees. In Article 31, the people must stop presenting this form of Oriental bazaar. Sometime this has to be done. They'll have to get colors in. Producers have another color, professionals in other colors and traders in agricultural products another color. Where possible we should pay attention, it is that any bench should not exceed six metres. Don't let the District Governors have any responsibility so that they can raise the benches more than six meters. Let us not forget that, at first, the people's markets were a place for producers and this is being followed in Europe too. We just forgot about it and extended it somewhere else. However, professionals who do well and participate must not be in a more favourable position than producers. From there on, in Article 39, in order to determine positions in standing trade, it would be desirable to give the opinion of the police. Finally, we must take care that the staging trade is not enough of retail shop activities, which are competitive with sustainable trade. These are the remarks we had to make. We've testified them. I repeat, most of them were integrated. There are a few left, perhaps even at the last minute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u142	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Stavros Arachovitis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u143	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill that comes for a vote today in plenary contains an integrated proposal - and this is its main feature - for the functioning of rural trade, but also for the improvement of the chamber. Contrary to the recent past, when critical issues about the organization and functioning of two such important institutional structures of the Greek economy were settled either by fragmentary provisions or even by legislative acts, this bill came after an exhaustive consultation of two whole years. The provisions of the bill modernise and codify the institutional framework of organization and operation, on the one hand, and, on the other, the commercial, industrial and craft chambers in our country. It is a single legislation - and we keep this - which concerns all types of outdoor commercial activity and comes to correct the pathogens, but also to fill in the gaps that the previous legislations have created. The result of the pathogenesis and fragmentary legislation was the establishment of distortive practices and relationships in the field of rural trade, preventing the healthy development of this sector, which is a very important pillar of the national economy and a key factor in social well-being. This law encourages a large part and especially special groups of the population to become economically active in outdoor trade, strengthening the economy, reducing unemployment, but at the same time, immediately strengthening the producer's income. With the legislative improvements introduced today by the Ministry, many of the positive comments made by the committees and bodies presented are incorporated. For farmers in the country, there is one key element in the bill, which I believe clearly strengthens the position of the producer of agricultural products. This is because we have an extension of the possibility for producers of their products. In particular, Article 4 allows producers to issue a licence for outdoor trade and therefore to operate both on a regulated market for outdoor trade and to place their products on their own outside the public markets individually and collectively through participation in cooperative schemes. It is thus restored for producers an injustice that deprived them of the possibility of taking part in all forms of rural trade and thus to place their products on their own, even outside the people's markets. Professional farmers, now, can be active in all kinds of outdoor activities, but also in stagnation and global trade. At the same time, however, the participation of producers through cooperative organisations and producer groups in rural trade is being expanded. And here, it is important, because every piece of legislation that concerns producers takes its place, the cooperative schemes, which we are promoting and which we consider to be a solution to the organization of producers. In addition, the sale of dairy products, exclusively in popular markets, is permitted, of course, by owners of small undertakings producing cheese shops, who are not farmers, but provided that they do not have a retail shop. The producer can operate in popular markets throughout the territory, and if he is licensed on a travel guide, he is certainly active within the region, but he is also given the opportunity to choose another region. A big issue now facing this bill is also the issue of quantities, where there was a great game of tax evasion and tax evasion. For the issue of the licence, the products and the total quantities to be allocated for the period of validity of the licence shall be declared. In particular, for small organic farming, the possibility of announcing these quantities up to 15 days before harvest is allowed to take place. In Article 12 for the quantities of its own production, the producer, through a three-member committee, crosses the exact quantity, assisted by the information systems now available to the country and technology. On the other hand, the producer must record the quantities moved in the cases of transit, which will be maintained until the next renewal of his licence. So cross-checking can be carried out through an average balance so as to facilitate checks on tax evasion. Another important point, ladies and gentlemen, is that the producer's obligation for self-representation is abolished throughout the year. To date the producer was only allowed to be absent from the bench for reasons of health, maternity or paternity. In accordance with Article 4, therefore, the possibility is to make up for his or her spouse or children. This is only done by a responsible statement to the competent authority. With further legislative improvement that came from the Minister, the producer with a declared official is allowed to be temporarily replaced. So the producer will not be forced to be kept out of the field at all times, from the production process, to be on the counter, but it can be replaced. We have pointed this out to the committee and I thank the Minister for accepting this legislation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Another important point is the very significant reduction in the number of supporting documents needed. There is now a need for seven supporting documents and everything on the original declaration and two on the renewal of the licence. Here, ladies and gentlemen, we must stand up to another important fact, which was a focus on the people's markets, that is to say, the positions of sellers on the people's markets. Now by law it is done objectively, with molecules and social criteria. In essence, that is, it breaks a establishment of years, which was also an outbreak of the development of customer relations. As far as the professional seller is concerned, the system of granting licences for rural trade is changed, with a view to strengthening social status in a more fair and more socially sensitive way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u144	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mrs Eleni Zarulia, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr President. Before I refer to the bill, I would like to comment on the current timeliness, which is extremely important and for which only from the Step of the House can we take a position, being completely excluded from all the news media in the country. First of all, with regard to the recent crime, terrorist attack at the PASOK offices and the almost murder of policemen who accidentally escaped this time, because sometimes they have been injured by the bullets of the incompetent paratroopers, our position is stable and clear: condemnation of violence as a whole and not under conditions and conditions, as you do every time that you are the victim of'red' terrorism is some supporter, executive or MP of our party. And because, as I said before, terrorism in Greece has a specific colour and ideological origin, I have the impression that the verbal condemnation on the part of the Government of this serious incident raises questions that need a direct answer. What exactly does SYRIZA condemn with his announcements, when open in the past, and not just, has he been legally, economically and politically supportive of terrorists who cynically call'social fighters'? Where exactly does the President of Parliament find the threat to democracy, as he points out in a press release, when even the President of the Parliament himself, the Ministers of Justice and the Public Order - and at this point to stress that the Minister for Civil Protection talks with these criminal elements, which he calls 'collectiveness' - has put up a protective net, so that the petty children of the Excellency can commit serious criminal offences, without ever confronting the consequences of the law, thereby destroying every concept of law and equality? You, who, at every opportunity, are strongly accused of being democratically sensitive to Golden Dawn as a criminal organization, what do you have to say about the real criminal organisations that are firing on fire every time the manipulation of public opinion is urgent, so that it does not deal with the real issues relating to society? For all this, the government is silent. And you're right, because she's guilty. Because it is the one that promotes lawlessness, which hopes for terrorism and which perceives violence as a political instrument to tackle the Golden Dawn, as, for example, every time left-wings organise illegal conflicts, demanding the suspension of the operation of a legitimate political party, the third political force of the country, the People's League - Golden Dawn. In your democracy, therefore, the ideologically fantasy of the parliamentary and extra-parliamentary Left can undisturbed fire, murder, blackmail, threaten and fade, but the third political party, the Golden Dawn, which has just suffered terrorist attacks and murderous acts by left invasions, is forbidden to speak and even to provoke it publicly. But let us move on to another issue that has triggered your democratic and supposedly patriotic reflexes, that of the rather provocative 'racist' attack taken by Afghan Amir, who goes to the fifth class, as written. But, in the sixth grade, to assume that he is going, to be a signifier, he must live in Greece for at least two years, according to the law, which I shall submit to you in the Minutes and read a small quote. According to Ministerial Decision C1/219/13-3-2001 of the Ministry of Research, Education and Religion, Amir should not enter the draw because in the process of selecting signifiers, painters and wreaths, foreign students, who are studying at least two years at Greek school, can participate. And what do we learn from his own mother, who interviewed? That she and her son are here seven months, while her husband is in Germany and there are processes to reunited the family. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Eleni Zaroulia, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] That is why I said that this attack may be a provocative one, because according to Mr von Wogau. 4332, where Article 19 A was added to L. Case C-251/2014, paragraph 1b; Judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Communities v Commission of the European Communities ECLI:EU:C:2014:318, paragraph 2; Judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Communities, C-282/01 P, ECLI:EU:C:2014:461, paragraph 2; Judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, C-282/02 P, ECLI:EU:C:2014:461, paragraph 2; Judgment of state and allow victims of racism to extend their residence permit until their case has been decided. I will also present what I have just read about the Minutes, which is mentioned in the Official Journal of the Government. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Eleni Zaroulia, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As a result of all this, the little Amir to an honored person, with the Prime Minister delivering to him a few days later at the Congregation of Maximos the Greek flag, as a minimum sign of his support for the drama that he experienced, but not his mother, who was enthusiastic, than we saw in the relevant video! Which is hypocrisy, really! The man who, in the retreat of our National Anthem, stands unannouncedly, who protects those who burn it, who has humiliated it in the Brussels living room and in the diplomatic tables with the Turks and Albanians, suddenly remembered to present the patriot for cheap, communication consumption. In short, for SYRIZA the flag is nothing when it is held by Greek hands, a "piece of cloth" when it burns its companions and a "national symbol" when it delivers it to Muslim illegal immigrants. The Government of Tsipras - Kammenos with this act, namely to hand over the blue-white to foreign and foreigners, insulted the Greek people and, at the same time, sent the message that "Greek end". You want to make Greece Islam and you don't hide it. However, as long as there is even a Chrysangygite or a Chrysayant, there will be an obstacle to your anti-national designs! Let me come to the bill now. We have heard nothing about the self-proof trade that takes place every day throughout the territory. We all know and see hundreds of immigrants who have been smuggled into Greece to work in particular in towns. In central squares and streets they sell their goods, for which I doubt they have the necessary documentation or if they have legal permission, cash machines and everything else provided for. Therefore, these people are free to move their actions and are bio-accounted for at the expense of some Greeks, who, of course, you, as government, have decided that you must deport them and put them out of the market. So what happens with all kinds of foreigners who sell their helicopters and others similar throughout the historic center of Athens and not just on the beach of Thessaloniki and other cities on the ground? What are the results of possible investigations by the relevant municipal and state bodies? I'll tell you what. None. Because they simply do not exist in the case of illegal retailers at least because they know to do only thorough checks on legal persons. We have many complaints, where they say that the small sellers of the people's markets who are taxed, who have cash machines, licenses and what else is envisaged, have recourse to the authorities responsible for carrying out the necessary checks and the removal of illegals. However, they do not take into account them so that legal retailers are not protected against the illegal ones. How, then, are Greek retailers protected? Does the bureaucratic obligations applicable to our compatriots not apply to foreigners? So you know very well that there is unequal treatment of Greek citizens and for once you confirm the position of Golden Dawn on proven racism for national citizens. In Rule 37, entitled 'Consumer markets', our Member, Mr Shahinides, has been extensively quoted and we still do not understand what'symmetric markets' means. What kind of goods will be moved under the present system? What we understand, however, is that you are creating intermediaries, i.e. intermediaries, in the name of solidarity. Therefore, the only thing for sure is that these conditions are not a tool to upgrade and exalt rural trade. They are imported only to satisfy, unfortunately, the micro-political needs of your Government, but also the enthusiasts of the degradation of society on the altar of so-called democraticity and misguided conception of rightfulness. The Golden Dawn will therefore vote against this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u146	Thank you, Mrs. Zarulia. Mr Ioannis Theophiles has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u147	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to make a little comment, because yesterday in Cleveland, we have so many Greek expatriates, they sang together with Giannis Antetokounbo with national pride the National Anthem and kept the Greek flag and we were all happy. I have relatives in Cleveland. The family comes from Pontto and half came to Greece and half the people went to America. This is Greece and those who go to Greek education, like the eleven-year-old Amir who goes to Greek schools, we don't treat them hostilely, but the opposite. I'm coming to the bill. Today we are voting on the draft law on outdoor trade, on the people's markets, which is a right for people of labor, for people of the people of the people and the countryside and for the world trade, for people who sell their products with less than ten degrees of Celsius, often like in Western Macedonia. Sometimes they sell them out with rain, storms and all kinds of difficult weather conditions. So let this part of our society understand who is closer to them. Are we today solving such major problems of their industry, or are New Democracy and PASOK, where we see that every one of our partners, their relatives, the Lagard lists, Borgians, Panama Papers and others? That's what we've been paying for all these years. They took the money, got it abroad, and we went bankrupt here, and we have a crisis. And in any case, if it is only a matter of tax havens, let them pay taxes. To understand the people of the people's markets, we here pay direct, indirect taxes, but some do not want to pay, go to tax havens. Legal, moral, it doesn't matter, but to know who we are. And the vindication of people on the people's markets is double, as, firstly, the distortions of the past that have hit their industry are being abolished and normalized, especially the simple producer - these have been said by colleagues, pluralism, bureaucracy, bureaucracy and so on - and above all, the catastrophic intervention against the people's markets is being abolished by the 2014 Act of the Government of Samara - Venizelos. That's what they're doing in judgment. They said "we'll fix the things that were said" and made them worse and faced with hostile, shaking the finger, the Greek people, after they went bankrupt because of their scandals. Secondly, we are also looking at the future, taking seriously into account and implementing the interests and demands of the people's market and rural trade sector, as it preceded - and I stress this - an exhaustive consultation for more than a year and a half with representation of all the operators involved. And that really deserves congratulations to the Ministry, to you, Minister, to your partners and to the previous Minister, as this consultation began earlier, before you even took over, because it lasted more than a year. And the soul of this consultation is the Secretary-General, Mr Papaderakis, who also deserves credit, because all conflicting interests have been taken into account through this consultation. And we saw that most of the stakeholders in the committee are positive, while they have conflicting interests. This means consultation and composition, i.e. producers, other traders, wholesalers, Attica, other Thessaloniki, another province. However, with the consultation and dialogue that has taken place, the gold sectors have been found. I'm going to stand selectively on some provisions that matter. For example, I am going to talk about the producer, about the world-wide trader, who is licensed by the region and possibly also in two other regions to trade, which is important. The person who conducts steadfast trade is licensed by the municipality who engages in steadfast trade. It's something that the law of 2014 had deprived him of. It is also important that the obligation to join itself should be abolished. Perhaps both husband and children will come and so man can work in his field. The procedure, in particular the renewal of authorisations, shall be simplified only by the OSE certificate. Authorization is abolished, and this also facilitates licensing. We'll only have a sample check at 30% of applications. And we have an objective mobilisation system for people. No more rosés! At the end of the law, there is the molecule system and it applies to everyone. No more rosés! If the producer is retired, he or she may continue with the children or husband, if he or she has the same status. For the professional now, the trader of the people, the system of granting licences is being strengthened in the social context, and so 60% of the licences go to groups that meet criteria - the law says so - and I think all the parliamentary groups have agreed. And the molecules criteria are mentioned: First, people with disabilities have at least 50%, multiples, laundry children, third-party children, parents with disabilities, their prostates, people living in camps, people with disabilities, protectionists from single parents and others. We don't have a percentage that gets the licenses, but molecule, because someone might be in two and three categories, so he gets more molecules. So here, too, no more ruffles. The bill clearly stipulates that moleculosis is taking place, who are entitled to licences and who will be transparently granted them. The remaining 40% will get them on the basis of income. Very important provisions of the draft law are as follows: In this respect, the Commission notes that the fact that the company is a subsidiary of the State does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of That's how people got sick. They ran from municipality to municipality, one to municipality, the other to municipality. This distortion is resolved too, this pathogen. Those who have been bankrupt have a year to be able to sell their products. The fees for those entitled to social solidarity shall be reduced by 50% and may also be paid by other activities, by up to 15% of the annual turnover and by any other source with a limit. And here we transfer to professionals in case of death or disability 67%. It is important to clarify where it goes, Mr. Minister, the daily fee, which is 60-40 in Attica and Thessaloniki and 75-25 in the rest of Greece. It refers to Article 36(1), but people on the people's markets are right to say 'we want to have transparency'. You have to clarify this with ministerial decisions. They can't pay every day and don't see where this ends. The end is rewarding, as the law stipulates. They must have toilet, cleaning, securetti, etc. There must be greater transparency. It's all to be implemented, as the law stipulates. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute and I'll close, Mr. President. As far as implementation is concerned, I will address two issues. It is important, Minister, that account be taken of the diversity of the centre - province, capital - region as defined in the law. Others are the conditions in the north - we are told by people - others are the ice in the winter, where the temperature is near zero and another in southern Greece. For consumer markets, I will not say what I mentioned in committee. It is a very important provision because it places in order the markets without intermediaries, which is an institution created by solidarity movements. It has been done, as I have seen, by the legislative improvement I have asked for in committee, but it needs to be improved even more. In paragraphs 4, 5 and 6, it states ‘the collective body’. This must be corrected and said, Mr Minister, 'the body referred to in paragraph 2'. When we say 'the collective consumer-citizens body', we are talking only about collective consumer-citizens and consumer associations, consumer-cooperatives and the public-communists. We must not have "there's" because you don't know how every municipal official will implement the law. So, when we say 'consumer-citizens' body' to be corrected - I saw that an addition was made - to the right 'by the body referred to in paragraph 2'. In conclusion, I should like to say - in the Chambers - that the bill is in the right direction because it is facing the paths of the past and the hostile treatment of people of the people. It is another area in which we are intervening in a manner that we are intervening in a manner that the opposition, the New Democracy and the PASOK cannot do, because they are part of these pathogenesis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u148	Mr Hussein Zabeck has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u149	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today in plenary we are discussing the draft law on outdoor trade and the modernisation of logistics. After the extraordinary political conditions of the previous period, we are entering a new period of normality in which we seek to put a order in every social field. Existing commercial activities are one of these issues, in which, under the responsibility of the previous governments, chaos and lawlessness prevailed. This professional activity has a strong classic character, since it concerns people of the biopale who are trying to be viable and competitive. The bill provides an opportunity for a large part of the population and especially for the special groups to engage in rural trade, strengthening the economy and reducing unemployment. This bill is another necessary legislative initiative to end with the pathogens and gaps that have left laws in the previous period. The proposed arrangements have become the subject of extensive and long-term consultation with citizens and local and regional authorities until we reach the present result. The lack of a clear legislative framework and chaotic multilingualism on the issue of licences has created extensive confusion over the years, which has favoured non-transparency and illegality. At the same time, the non-existent system of recording and crossing of citizens, permits, purchases per county prevented the exercise of control over outdoor trade, and generally prevailed salt in all outdoor activities. So, with Chapter I, we give the definitions in detail so that they do not fit into misinterpretations. The obligation of the producer-seller to record all kinds of moveable quantities in a considered book facilitates the control of the quantities moved and the prevention of sales of unprocessed products. The most important are changes in the licensing process, with fewer supporting documents and abolishing the producer's self-representation. The single conditions of the producer-farmer activity are very important, whether they are in folklore or on the planetary trade, while the issue and renewal of the licence is removed from the autopsy of the producer's crops. For professional sellers, licenses become more social, i.e. 40% available on income criteria and 60% on special social groups. They therefore aim to combat unemployment and strengthen vulnerable social groups. In fact, for sellers who are part of the CRL, fees are reduced to half. With regard to Article 37, which is an important part of the bill, we import consumer markets. These are markets without intermediaries, with the aim of cultivating consumer consciousness and above all of developing social solidarity, as support for these markets strengthens our weak fellow citizens. In Part II of the Chamber bill, which is very topical because of the forthcoming elections, we can say that the provisions strengthen the role of chambers and effectively restore their role as state advisers. There are little cases where the chambers, as they were structured either benefiting micro-party interests or becoming bodies only of their presidents and did not represent the whole business world. The mission of chambers to provide services to members and undertakings in general, is restored through the Foundation of Business Support Centres. At a time that is more necessary than ever to support businesses, this institution comes to use public information systems to provide adequate support for entrepreneurs. The Regional Chamber of Commerce has established the link between chambers per county at regional level, so that development actions are part of regional development planning. As you can see, this provision is crucial for overall regional development, with a typical example of my own region, which we hope will become an important development hub for the country. In addition, the role of the Councils is becoming even more important in their opinion on the Regional Operational Programmes for the NRP. In the same direction, the new institutional framework for the bilateral chambers is being launched to make them an essential and strengthening factor in the extroversion of the Greek economy and bilateral diplomacy. All these moves demonstrate our willingness to go in a coordinated way towards the country's productive reconstruction and our need to create a channel of communication with local actors so that we can reach fair growth. It is also clear that the concept of membership with the companies registered in the GFCM will have the right to participate in the chambers and with voluntary registration possibilities for those who are not registered in the GFCM. Chambers' finances are improved by voluntary membership, but there are also limits for the allocation of funds to other bodies in order to enhance transparency and public accountability. In this context, for the first time, provisions on the disciplinary responsibility of administrations are laid down in order to achieve the best possible self-control and internal accountability. At the same time, he's entering the chamber staff now. The opaque recruitment of staff carried out over so many years through the legal persons they had set up are prevented. The staff will be quantified objectively on the basis of real pre-service through ADP. Finally, the changes to the proportionality of the chamber electoral system are also very important. At the time when simple analogue is a law of the state, the institutions must also move in this direction. Therefore, the 'federal' type of election of the Boards is a maximum of two successive terms for the position of the President, as is the gender quota to stimulate female entrepreneurship. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In conclusion, I would like to remind you that this bill is also a single part of our overall project towards the country's productive reconstruction. It is part of our struggle to change page and lead to fair and sustainable growth. Following the development law, the law on the extrajudicial mechanism, the protection of undeclared and imputed labour, with this bill we are promoting interventions both in the reconstruction of state advisers and in the support of vulnerable social groups with decent work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u150	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Spyridon Dannelis, Parliamentary Representative of the River, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u151	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, tolerance to violence and lawlessness, in whatever expressions and tensions they are expressed, leads society to mirridism. Illegality tends to become normal, leading us to even worse, unpredictable and uncontrolled situations. The message - prepared or unintentional - of tolerance to immunity escalates the nerve and, of course, the problem. The fact that some had the courage to raise seven floors in the courtroom to demand from the inquisitor who has taken over the case of the man responsible for attempting murder against Luke Papademos is really beyond me. It goes beyond me, because some people think it is legitimate that it is within the framework of the functioning of democracy to protest about someone's right to terrorise and kill, someone arrested with guns and explosives on the back and who, as they all show, attempted to kill a former Prime Minister. It's crazy now, not only to think about it and consider it legitimate, but also to find the way to do it. Madness is also the story of the constant attacks on the PASOK offices. What are we waiting for, then, ladies and gentlemen? We expect there to be a victim? It's a coincidence that every time the molotovs or bullets drop, there's no victim. But the day before yesterday the shooting to the police guarded by the PASOK offices went beyond any previous day. It is obvious that the government must fully review its tactics. There is a very long distance between unregulated repression and immunity. Especially the question of the Exarchates goes beyond any government, but also the usual micro-group calculations of any opposition, because it is not a new phenomenon but a time-consuming one. The Exarcheia is unbaptised not only with the current government, but also with all the previous ones. In fact, for Exarcheia, we politicians are about what women are for Mount Athos. We're permanently exiled. In this way, however, we have come to accept a status quo of a particular galactic village that is supposedly resisting against everyone and everything and in which violence and lawlessness endure as normality. This is therefore unacceptable for a favoured society. It is time for the government to take the initiative for discussion with the opposition of a serious and multilateral plan to address this unacceptable situation. This plan, in our view, does not only concern repression. Integration and security of citizens is not a matter of a right-wing agenda, and that must be understood by the Left. The sense of security is a basic good of democracy. There is a picture of lawlessness in the issue of auctions. This is where the tolerance of the state is in the long term detrimental both to society and to the economy. A number of dictators sell a revolution, sell a false altruism, and as a result the notaries do not feel fundamentally safe to handle this work. They appear as the modern 'Robins' of the poor. But is that so? Some continue to set up political careers, playing with the anger and misinformation of society. The data speak of blocking real estate auctions of very high value belonging to the so-called'strategic malicious payers'. We are not in the phase where low-value properties are sold, the poor's properties, the first homes. Who, then, is in the interest of blocking auctions? With this in mind, the closure of the third assessment in time and also the attempt to stabilise our banking system is at risk. Just yesterday, during the Eurogroup, you saw that the European banker, Mr Draghi, intervened on this issue. While yesterday there was a vertical drop in the bank index on the Athens Stock Exchange, in the fears expressed by the Bank of America with Merrill Lynch, drastically curtailing the prices - target for the shares of the Greek banks, fearing, indirectly, that they would retreat. The justification for this assessment was that banks would find it difficult to deal with the problem of red loans and would also be affected by the change in accounting standards and the supervisory rules on collateral. For as long as red loans are deceived and not settled, even in the midst of this extremely unpleasant process, the nightmare scenario, which, of course, all of us are absent, is one more recapitalisation of the Greek banks. Except this time, the non-genus will probably be with a horizontal haircut of bank deposits. But in justice everything that is horizontal is not just. It is a pleasure that Mr. Paradoxopoulos finally understood the problems of his law and saw that with existing legislation the problem is not only social security, but ultimately the confidence of the citizens in the institutions. Because in matters of justice, the indiscriminate treatment of guilty persons ultimately leads to the devaluation of the institution itself. A debtor and a drug dealer or a murderer cannot be treated in the same way. Of course, it is not possible, on the one hand, to have extremely strict penalties for a number of offences and crimes and, on the other, to have guaranteed by law the non-implementation of the sentence because of the population congestion of prisons. Of course, imprisonment is not an excuse, it is a real problem and it is not a new one. However, there is a need for exceptional discrimination and concrete aiming when legislating such laws, because the desirable liberalisation of our penitentiary system can also lead to monstrous effects that jeopardise the safety of citizens, but also to a legal sense, such as our legal system. Ladies and gentlemen, I will now say a few words about the bill. We all know more or less about the malfunctions and distortions that characterise the functioning of rural trade in our country. Therefore, the Government's attempt to reform the scope for the operation of outdoor commercial activities, even using modern electronic applications, is welcome. The institutional framework needed modernisation. The law on our country trade comes from far away 1995. The recent law, Law 4624/2014, introduced significant positive provisions such as the use of personal licenses or a very specific placement, as well as the activation of ELAS into control. However, the situation has little improved. The paramilitary trade has not been reduced. And this is an important issue that we hope this bill will adequately address. It seems, of course, that today's bill perceives the conditions in rural trade to a significant extent. Its positive aim is to simplify a single framework for issuing and reviewing licences with the necessary transparency, which it has never described, by establishing a clear framework for the conditions for granting the producer's licences and the professional in rural markets. In relation to the provisions on protection and integration in the labour market of vulnerable social groups, particularly the unemployed or the social reintegration of people, we are in any case positive. Critical evidence is to ensure the consistency of producers and entrepreneurs. This is the only way to create and tighten up the necessary relationship of confidence between consumers and people behind the bench. We also consider it to be in the direction of more systematic organisation of outdoor commercial activities and the creation of the electronic platform, where the data of empty persons, the volumes moved and, of course, any infringements will be recorded and cross-checked. We have proposed, during the debate in the committee, that both the electronic platform and the licence form also mention the vehicle to be transported for sale. Thus, by combining the information to be recorded in the books of the quantities moved, we believe that control will be made more effective. For the part of the bill on reforming the legislation in chambers, we are placed in a position to see the need to upgrade the role of chambers at national and local level. We consider it interesting and particularly positive the new powers to the chambers, especially those which give the referendum powers to them on issues of national and local economy, or the competence of certification, but also the role of the Ombudsman in disputes between entrepreneurs. Of course, we believe that the financial management of chambers should be carried out with the existing provisions on public accounting and public procurement, and we also consider that the performance in the chambers of new responsibilities and tools, in order to respond more effectively to the modern and particularly increased needs of their business members, is a key factor, and that their role will be the best pit for their members, that they remain members and follow the lives of the chambers. However, we believe that the ban on the participation of pensioners in election posts should remain in force in the Chambers of Deputies. In relation to individual issues, which my colleague, my party rapporteur, Mr Amyras, has asked me, we are waiting for some answers, Minister, in order to shape our final attitude to these individual articles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u152	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague, Mr Mitafidis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u153	Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by telling the previous colleague, Mr Dannelly, that we are still unmovable to this slogan, the poor, ironing out today - 'no house in the hands of a banker'. We are talking about homes and not about the luxurious mansions of the well-known rodents of public money, of the tax collectors and of those who, of course, enjoy their wrongful profits tax-free on the exotic islands with the tax havens, while "the flat earth" of course, they are still suffering.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u154	With you on this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u155	I would also like to say to Mr Loverdo that what you said about middlemen sounds like a tragic irony for middlemen. Your party had, as you know, raised it in science. What can I say now? That a almost prime minister and leader of your party is in prison again and, indeed, at an advanced age? Or did many stars of semantic modernism flourish on the ground of extreme capitalism and neoliberalism? That is why you must be very careful.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u156	Shouldn't we talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u157	I'm not a fan of collective responsibility. This is a fascist principle. I don't want to charge the sins of some people to everyone. But you've come here, you've attacked us throughout the spectrum, and you even accused us of destroying the middle class. Who destroyed 25% of the Gross National Product? SYRIZA? And another thing to make up for. Mr. Javarras always offers stimuli. First of all, we must clarify the "s" by the "active". Although there's a medieval residue, it's a pointless word.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u158	That's right. Liddell & Scott says so.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u159	Yes, there is, of course, a medieval catalyst. To give a little credit: I read in the report of a Member of Parliament that it had, he says, many 'active' participation in parliamentary procedures. The other thing I want to say, Mr. Javarra, is that we are obviously bowing to the great nature of Kad. Of course, we are not followers of Cad's transcendental idealism, as you know. By the way, it came to my mind - I had seen it on television at that time, I was not in the chairs - an image since June 2012, when you formed this tripartite government, unfortunately also with the participation of DIMAR, when we welcomed the candidate Prime Minister, Mr. Samaras, Mr. Papoulias told him that it was a 'principal order' to form a government. As you can see, however, because morality is not metaphysical, what was for you "category order" and for lenders, formed a government, for us was the extension of the testimony of the Greek people. I say this because morality is not some abstract entity, which we worship, but it always has to do with social conditions. I have no conception of moral relativism. We are not, as you know, of the concept that the 'purpose justifies the means'. Others viewed and ideology. Now I want to say a few things about the bill. I personally fought for it, went to the police station many times and faced with the MATs, for example, when they came to the Aristotle Square where the producers had gathered, since they had eaten the fines to sell their products. That is why I would like the term'market without intermediaries'. I think you have also seen it in the explanatory statement. Explains it too much. We have, as you know, the idea that even in these conditions of hard capitalism we should discipline society with the concept of collective activity, the concept that Marx called 'the society of cooperative producers'. We want a society of this kind, even in these difficult circumstances, in any way, to be financed politically and where we can do so, even though we do so as a party with the'solidarity' we have set up and in which we are very consciously giving part of our parliamentary compensation -. Such forms of collective activity, we want, in order to educate society with this perception, not the perception of individualism, which, as you know, leads directly to its hug of profit. So, read this way the bill we bring here. We have tried - and I am able to know this - to include, to 'photograph in the good sense of the term, social groups that had been exposed, such as Roma and other social collectives, which, in the difficult circumstances of the crisis, have literally undertaken to live in certain layers and have made a very important contribution to the survival of the poorest, from collective kitchens to what you want. These are, if you like, new collective social institutions and we brought the bill in question. We are in favour of what we call the'social economy'. With this bill we promote that logic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u160	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague Mr Panagiotis (Panos) has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u161	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the draft law on outdoor trade, the famous outdoor trade, which accompanies societies throughout the historical route. His great social character established it as a stable place where producers and professional sellers offer quality quality and affordable products in wide folk layers. The social conditions themselves, however, such as the crisis we are experiencing, have given birth to new tools for outdoor trade. These are the markets without intermediaries. We are therefore called upon to heal pathogens of years, but also to take care of these new tools that emerged from society itself. This draft law, therefore, addresses the time-consuming, demonstrable and opaque procedures introduced in the past. It shall ensure the authorisation and renewal of authorisations by simplifying procedures with a decisive reduction in supporting documents. Insert an electronic recording system providing a central cross-check of licences and checks. In the new regulations producers may have their products outside the public market. The Greek producer can actually move without intermediaries. It is also encouraged to participate in cooperative organisations, which, as the first tier of agricultural cooperative organisation, can make a decisive contribution to multi-stakeholder development. Unfortunately, however, cooperatives - which could have led to the problems of the agricultural sector, which could have made our lives better, especially at this time, in the midst of a crisis - had been devalued by the previous governments and led to total disrepute. The total lack of control procedures, the unrecognition and their petty fragmentation have led to the present unpleasant situation. However, the provisions of this bill also provide for professional sellers to be facilitated and given full employment. Ladies and gentlemen, I consider it important that Article 37 of this draft law, in which the operation of consumer markets, known markets without intermediaries, is institutionalised, is important. They are markets that ensure the inmediate relationship between producers and consumers. In this way, a firm request from the solidarity movement is being fulfilled, clarifying who, where and how such markets can be carried out. In the morning, the rapporteur of the New Democracy told us that he raised Mr Babiniotis to find out what these markets are without intermediaries. There's no entry there. It's a new action. It emerged from society itself. It was imposed by the people themselves. But to know her, and listen to her, you have to be there and listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u162	Local SYRIZA organization!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u163	I understand your difficulty. It's been a long time. A lot has fallen. I understand. A lot has fallen these days. I understand it, and I respect it. You're in a position where I can see it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u164	Local SYRIZA organization, unclaimed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u165	I understand. You've been hit by a lot these days. The papers of heaven have come today, and I understand you! So, like the 'broker-free market', I understand that they may be too left to understand from a conservative policy. The electronic business register is used for the first time in the Chambers of Commerce and Industry, which clears the active ones from the inactive business. Ladies and gentlemen, Article 16 stipulates the re-issuance of public purchasing licences by region, in accordance with the notices issued by the regional unit concerned. In the past, the license was granted by the District Director on the basis of criteria completely personal. Now, with the call, there is control over and there are no injustices in the past. So all in the light, with equitableness, justice, as regards the licensing and distribution of positions and the functioning of the outdoor market. This "all in light" is annoying the Civic Opposition and the parties that have ruled in the past, which have discriminatoryly ruled towards the upper economic strata, with opaque and clientele logic. This new law deregulations and hits the roots of all that previous regime of injustice, which hampered the demanding "lovers" of previous governments but also themselves, as worshipers of loved philosophers. To conclude, I would like to say two things: firstly, on the occasion of the markets without intermediaries, because there has been a placement in general for middlemen in public life, it is good that they have grown older in their conciliation with the middlemen, who have discovered them and have actually taken place in previous decades, to be more held up. Secondly, I understand an awkwardness. You don't have much to say. If you look at the list of speakers, only three Members from the New Democracy spoke of a member of the Democratic Alliance. If anyone sees the list of speakers, over 60% of speakers are SYRIZA Members. Because here we are dealing with a law. We propose a social document, which I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote for, because it is a bill that responds to the current needs of the net'sellers, producers and chambers', curing decisive errors, omissions, distortions and injustices of the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u166	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Nikolaos Xydakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u167	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a bill a little while before its vote. The impression that has been created in committee and in plenary is that everyone is very much in agreement. The remarks of the Observation were incorporated by the Minister. The only disagreement expressed in this Chamber was on Article 37. Mr Javarras reminded us that in 1929 Eleftherios Venizelos made two major political moves, according to Mr Javarra: he imposed the peculiar name to prosecute communists and popular markets.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u168	I did not say that it was 'big' political moves.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u169	I can therefore say that there is no political wickedness, for which we have been accused, or some Rusphetti, for markets without intermediaries and these forms of social solidarity. But there is a social need, which has emerged during the years of the crisis. From 2010 until today, we have been living in a very difficult situation for very large parts of our population and our fellow citizens and a left-wing government, which disguises the world of work, the world of labour, the poor world, for which it is worth taking potatoes or oranges at a cheaper price even than the people's market, is its obligation and duty to legislate in favour of this already established market system. If it does not go well, it rectifies another government, if all these reasons are lifted or extinct. In any case, we do not vote for any privatization of the left, nor do you prosecute anyone. We are voting in favour of and legislate in favour of the weak, to give institutional form to an already existing situation, which only provides relief for our tested fellow citizens. A democratic government in a favoured state must also take into account what is happening in society. It will not allow the "invisible hand of the market" to regulate society and life. The "invisible hand of the market" is also revealed these days, since after the Panama Papers we have Paradise Papers. In other words, we see that 1% of the population in western countries not only exploits, not only despises societies and crushes the middle class, not only takes back what it gave them throughout the post-war period - public health, the public school - and it tells them 'the rich will survive', but it spits in the face of the people of work, production and creation. This invisible hand of the market is our obligation. Whether we are progressive or left-wing or conservative, we must not betray the citizens' vote. We are guilty when we lie, when we are silent, when we are blinded, and when we tolerate the external paradises of wealth produced in a society and fleeing and hiding speculatively, robbery and anti-democratic. The wealth that is accumulated, the 7.9 trillion estimated to be parked in offshore paradises, is wealth that has been removed from the societies, is wealth that turns against the democracies and is wealth, which degrades the political leaderships that tolerate these phenomena. Unfortunately, the Greek Parliament cannot do the regulation. Transnational cooperation is needed, expressed international will. This is the field for the European Parliament, for the European Commission. Recently, the People's Party refused regulation. The Members of the People's Party have refused an arrangement for such phenomena. That's the field. All the political forces that believe in democracy, who believe that not only unfairly, but contemptuously and aggressively suffer peoples, should also make arrangements from national parliaments in cooperation with the European Parliament. So let us leave solidarity trade and the structures of solidarity and the promotion of social cohesion...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u170	Anti-realism.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u171	Let societies regulate themselves and not just the invisible hand of the market. My colleague, the very decent and always well-trained and moderate, said Spyros Danellis about the unbaptised of the Excavations. I just wanted to say a word, because I live thirty-five years in Exarchia, and I didn't feel confined by any unbaptized ones. Exarches also played in the 1980s with the memorable Nikos Arcudea, the police director. The Exarcheia, however, throughout the post-government period and during the dictatorship, was a neighbourhood of letters and arts, freedom and democracy. It is the neighborhood that has hosted - and still - great artists, painters. So let's leave the easy talk. Let's see how after 2008 especially the Exarches were converted into a track where mafias that control drugs, cigarettes, shops and night dance. Let's see why mafias are shot and murdered in the middle of the street. Let's see the great success, which is the first phase of last year's Greek Police operation last year that went and dismantled such circuits. Let us see how together, without demagogy and cries and terrorism we will work to deliver, not slandered neighborhoods and easy screams to give blood to the channels, but an example of democracy and fairness to the entire Greek society. For the bill, I don't have much to add. Both the rapporteurs and the speakers have said so. The Minister will give the latest touches, who has carefully followed all this process and - we must recognise that - he has listened in time and has incorporated all the comments into a bill, which has suffered the suffering and the long-term work from all the political leadership and the services of the Ministry. Thank you very much for voting in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u172	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Dimitrios Dimitriadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u173	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing this bill at a time when the positive performance of the 2017 budget is being discounted, which we have drawn up, and the over-performance of these objectives, and we continue with legislation such as this, which fulfils our overall effort. All this time we are insisting with self-determination, I would say, on the stables of our political proposal, which is productive reconstruction and fair development for the people. We are at a time when GDP is growing both in exports and in investment and competitiveness, and unemployment is decreasing very much. The news is therefore positive for the forces of production and work. The third assessment seems to close quite easily, without new measures, with first-time workers in the event of liquidation, with widowing pensions in a more positive perspective and with a social dividend resulting from over-performance of the objectives. This legislation is not a Memorandumary obligation, but it is our attempt to broaden the economic scope and extend the country's virtuous economic development cycle. The first part of this draft law includes popular markets and all outdoor commercial activities aimed at joining normality. The second part of this bill relates to the chamber, which modernises it, in an effort to respond to the modern needs of the market and to productive reconstruction. The third part contains provisions of the Ministry of Economy and Development relating to the needs of day-to-day and governmental life. First of all, open-air trade is about people's markets as a whole and open-air trade with all its activities, such as stagnation, globalization, fairs, fresh products and others. Outdoor trade and the people's markets are important to the populace, they are important to food everyday life, to the savings of resources and consumption patterns of popular strata. In addition, around thirty thousand professionals are active in outdoor trade. So it can become a pillar of growth in the effort to reconstruct our economy. I believe that this draft law sets out exactly a comprehensive proposal in the field of rural trade and integrates it into a normality, trade and production. This first part of the draft law sets out the terms and conditions for the operation of specific outdoor commercial activities. This gives an opportunity to a significant part of the population to become economically active through outdoor commercial activities. The main elements of this first part are: a detailed account of the forms of outdoor trade, the electronicisation of the process of data licensing and cross-checking, and the abolition of the rosphetological status of previous customer relations. Producers are given the opportunity to issue a licence for outdoor trade. Priority is given to cooperatives and to the Joint S.E.E. to participate in this process. The viability of the professionals with their support shall be ensured so that they can participate up to six days in duration. The legality of all forms of outdoor commercial activity shall be ensured. We have strong social criteria and a mobilisation system for participation in it. The consumer market is being regulated by making use of the movement experience of markets without intermediaries, and a field of outdoor craftsmen - artists is also regulated in a realistic way. In these two articles, because it relates to new markets and new areas that we are regulating, Article 37 on non-medical and Article 45 on artists - artists, we are obliged to say, precisely because it is a first initiative, how then and then, because the reality shows us that additional initiatives need to be taken then and we are prepared to do so. In the second part of the particular Chamber bill, we have a clear vision of the development of the chamber. Our aim is for chambers to be upgraded as state advisers and as providers of high-level services for their own members and as an independent development pillar, especially at regional level. In particular, the support centre for enterprises is established with a view to extending the one-stop-stop-stop-stop-stop-stage process for entrepreneurship. At the same time, regional chambers are being set up with a mission: firstly, institutional safeguarding and coordinated exercise of an advisory role for chambers in the preparation of regional operational programmes and, secondly, in the submission of proposals for planning and implementation of development actions, in particular in the framework of the ESDP. We confirm the state's confidence in the chambers and their important role in favour of the national development strategy. We are setting up a transparent process for the administration of chambers through ASPs. The electoral system is made more proportionate and supports female participation. In the third part we have a series of articles, which, as I said before, concern governance and everyday life. More specifically, in Article 100, we are moving towards institutional shielding and improving the functioning of the Coordination Centre for the Market and Management of Trade. In other words, we are organizing joint actions to combat the illegal trade. This is achieved through the establishment of a strong link between the centre and the regions, with the possibility of carrying out this control centre alone and the increase in the members of the services that form it. Article 101 aims to serve the Greek investment company and external trade, called 'ENTERPRISE GREECE'. Article 102 provides that amendments are to be made to the organisational units of the Special Debt Management Secretariat, where experience has shown that they are useful. An important provision, which highlights the social nature of this bill, is that of Article 103, where the fines imposed under Law 4264/2014 are reduced to EUR 500 until the entry into force of the Ministerial Decision, signed in January 2017. In particular, those fines, imposed before that Ministerial Decision, shall be reduced if the offender has been or will be included into the CRL by 31 December. It is an important regulation which relieves those who are unable to cope in an irresponsible manner with a sanction imposed on them. Article 106 introduces significant changes to the development law of 2016. In particular, the regulation in paragraph 1 provides for undertakings which in principle have 85% exports to be considered as self-evident and substantiated extroverters. The initial arrangements of the 2016 Development Law, which improves the ability to increase liquidity and to settle high-speed outstandingities despite the development law, are also more favourable to investors, allowing the payment to be given either once or in very few instalments today than was anticipated before. One by one, then, with this bill, we regularise various sections, which were and were working in a manner primarily rousphetological. We are doing this on our own initiative. As I said before, it is not a Memorandum of Understanding and, at the same time, the third assessment goes unusually well, because it is the result of an active negotiation and a firm political targeting. The left is for the hard part, it's for where others failed, it's the one that's going to get the country out of the crisis. Whatever the domestic elite of immunity, rumours, corruption and unconscious speculation do, the large social majority will be favoured and favoured by our political guidance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u174	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague, Ilias Cameroon, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u175	Ladies and gentlemen, I will avoid the temptation to do what many colleagues in the anti-Population have done to use this step to show - let me express - to make a political analysis, commonly from the panels, and also programmes that they have done so far. The culmination was the speech of the Vice-President of the New Democracy, Mr. Georgiadis. The only relationship that his speech had with the people's markets, which we are talking about above all, was his purely market speech and popularism. In fact, misguided populism was, because trying to get the New Democracy out of the stall, from the difficult position it is, because it keeps coming out all the time, and as the Minister of Health himself and in many places in the previous governments, forgetting about 'NOVARTIS', CEDEFOP, 'Nynn' - forgets all this - and moves the finger to whom? To us. He's misguided with that populism. Who's gonna convince with the well-known "you have money, so you don't care about the poor"? What does he want to tell us? That the New Democracy had a policy and has a programme for the poor, with the redundancies he made to doctors, with the large reductions in pensions, wages and all that, so I can't say it? I said don't get carried away, and I finally get carried away. That's why I live here, to refer to the bill. We are downgrading the bill, ladies and gentlemen, when we say it is about the people's markets. It's about that, too, but that's not all. It's a lot more. Apart from the fact that he puts one class in the whole scene of commerce and the market, whether this is open or closed, apart from the fact that he also regulates the popular markets we have said, except that he upgrades the operation of the chambers and puts me in order, let me in the time I have to stay on two key points, which show the following: As you know, we voted for the development law. You know and know, as we have repeatedly said, and it is seen by the law itself, where we aim: we aim to strengthen small and medium-sized enterprises. We aim to change the landscape, change the politics, change the model. We know what was happening before: 4% had taken 45% or 50% - if I am wrong, correct with - subsidies under development law. So far, the big guys have been dancing, and the little ones have been outside, and they're getting poorer. However, in order for this law to be implemented, it is not enough to vote. Other tools must be created to benefit the world in order to benefit small and medium-sized enterprises. However, this bill is also in this direction, because in order to do so, it must create tools from various areas, so that this law can be implemented from the basis, that small and medium-sized enterprises can actually be implemented. So I say these two points: it is Article 66, which creates a Business Support Centre. This is necessary, it upgrades the chambers, it gives them a developmental role. They are the ones that can get far closer to small and medium-sized enterprises, as they know them firsthand. It is the very expression of small and medium-sized enterprises. This is why the Chambers must be strengthened even further, with staff and finance. A second is Article 93a, which allows legal and financial advisory services. It is also in this direction, so that it is possible for the person who has a low income and cannot afford to have offices in study or consultancy with a competent authority set up to consult him, with legal and financial services. Because of time, I only live in them. But I want to end again with regard to development law. Because I said that other measures need to be taken, we must praise and demonstrate the direction in which the programmes that are last coming out of the Ministry, such as the programme for the creation of small and medium-sized hotels. Only here, Minister, will I have one comment: please make it clear what you mean by small and medium-sized tourists. I mean, a unit of 100 beds young, it's small and medium sized. An extension by a hundred beds of a five or six thousand beds hotel is a small business and will it strengthen, even if it is with a different company? Because we know that in the development law, we put a cap on not only one company, but also on groups of companies. In fact, we also need to see this in relation to the spatial distribution of hotels. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. We need to pay much more attention to the programme, which is mentioned, not to the establishment of new hotel units, but to the modernisation of tourist businesses. That is the greatest burden we need to bear most, especially in saturated areas, which the hotel fleet has ageed - to say so - and it must be strengthened so that it can compete. These are measures in the right direction for the implementation of the programme that we are bringing about fair growth. It's in this bill too, it's in the others, and it's gonna be a lot more in what's coming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u176	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Christos Hadjisavvas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u177	Thank you, Mr President. I have heard the concerns of many SYRIZA Members about the arguments put out by the other groups to them and from them, but nothing is going on. The reason why arguments and accusations are not targeted is that you are on the same side. The more memorial you are, the more New Democracy, the more ANELs, the more PASOK is. There are no speakers from PASOK. One speaker, two speakers, has been signed. They're registered when they're in the competition for who's going to be the leader of their party. They think this is what concerns the Greek people. We are now coming to the bill and to what all the representatives of the people's markets have asked for in the committees, which was the reopening and re-establishing of the Latiki Markets Agency and of Thessaloniki and their extension to other regions. The Public Markets Agency was economically independent, did not charge the state budget and, of course, did not charge the Greek taxpayer. He was denounced by Law 4264/2014. These people were aware of the industry's problems experientially and could deal with them or at least try to deal with them with the solutions they really thought they would achieve something rather than with theories through offices where someone legislates. They have therefore taken all these responsibilities to the regions. There have been major procedural and bureaucratic problems and the region has been charged with EUR 2.5 million for the remuneration of officials, but part of the daily fee. This downgrading of the People's Markets Organization is unacceptable. He is given only an opinion now. It's worse than the article 85 even by L.4314/2014. It is unacceptable, and the deterioration of the Committees on the People's Markets, which should normally be of a decisive nature, flexibly and directly, to deal with the problems of peoples, such as the number of points, measures on the benches, and more generally the problems of the operation and coexistence of sellers. It's not easy in these circumstances sometimes. Legislation and saying that it will not mean that it will be applied to a people who have now become chaos. Of the safe comes here to make opposition once again, and the ANEL party. As in the other bills, with citizenship, with the mosque and with the cohabitation pact, the opposition government plays well. They have tabled an amendment, lying about the reorganisation of the People's Markets Organization. They knew that the amendment would not be accepted. However, they were turning around and telling all these institutions that the amendment would come. On November 2, 2017, a clear question was raised within the committee by a Member of the Committee and it is the following: "A question of clarification, Mr Minister" - and addressed to Mr Papadimitriou - "Moves in the circles of the people's markets that the government committed itself on the initiative of your small government partner to changing the institutional framework of the people's markets and that the people's markets will return to an organisation. Is this information based? Because such a change in the institutional framework must also be seen in order to prepare for it." And you say, Mr Minister, 'We have no intention of bringing this amendment'. However, they falsely moved it from the government, that the amendment will come and will be accepted. I want to table this dialogue in the Minutes, although it is from the Minutes and anyone who wants to enter and see it. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Hadjisavvas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Article 36 refers to the daily fee paid by all the vendors, whether they have a popular market license as producers or professionals, to cover all kinds of operational needs, administrative support, safeguarding public health conditions, storage of spaces, modernisation, improvement of their visibility, labelling, demolition, waste bags and a thousand two others. However, because of the bureaucracy that has been created recently, none of this has been done and the money goes to the reserves. They fill some funds to do - perhaps - some solidarity actions. The big problem I find once again is that the level of problems and thoughts of citizens and your legislation are not divided anywhere at all. The problems are very great, for example, with positions on the people's markets. Do you know that he gets a popular market license and when he goes to the popular market he has no licence to set up his counter? They go and set around the people's markets, the roads that have been set to be, where others are going, and they are illegal, they have neither licensed nor published, so that the volume and the area of the people's markets are doubled. There is also a problem with the measures of the benches. Not all species can have the same bench measures. Other species are different, of special value, but they are larger. Let them pay more for those who have products that want more measures and put a limit on them. We didn't say to take the whole People's Market one. So it is not a simple profession and there are problems that may seem to some to be solved, but I do not see them solved, as with extensions, for them to consider tax and insurance information. You know, they're not these strategic bad payers. The impoverishment of Greek society has led to a reduction in their revenues and they cannot pay their obligations. It's not just a profession. They wake up at night, with weather adversaries and also have all the problems the free professionals have, most important of which is that the first ten days of the month will only work and know it. Then people don't have money to buy from the people either. You came today, November 8, to tell us within ten lines that young people will eventually be able to take the credits from their retired parents. In the summer, all the crops were left uninhabited, some were blackmailed because they had no choice either the farmer would throw them or sell them "black". You are giving the right to any unlikely, on the pretext of solidarity - which you have also devastated as a concept - to make popular markets without intermediaries. Producers who go to the people's markets do not have brokers. When a producer goes to the popular market, does he have an intermediary? These are fairy tales. In the name of solidarity, you are doing all these things. If you want solidarity, give homes to threeteen and tents, give work to the Greek people, give them a vision. Work, health and education with free access. No need for any Member, no Minister, no government to find them. It is not just his right, it is an obligation for the state to offer these. I wonder why they agreed SYRIZA, New Democracy and PASOK not to call first-time associations of sellers and producers of popular markets and to go directly to tertiary. Many issues may be covered by tertiary level, because problems are common. But there are also local problems, in Florina, in Pella, in Serres, in Kavala, in Rhodope, in Kilkis. There are dozens of people, you know, Minister. Each county has one, two and three popular markets every day. In Kilkis, for example, you know, from all these popular markets that he has every day, even on Sundays, what is this popular market that people expect to go and leave all his money? It is neither in a large city nor in a small village in Greece. He's in Gygeli, he's in Skopje. That's where Kilkis' people go and leave their money every Thursday. This problem is solved, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u178	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition by the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, 20 children and three companions, of the Melissa Group. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Alexandros Triantafylides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u179	He's not on the list.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u180	Mr. Yakumatos, Mr. Triantafylides had asked Mr. Kaklamanis to enter the list. It's been done many times. Mr. Triantafylides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u181	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a first comment: in the light of the developments and the revelations of the last 24 hours, the names of the hundred and thirty Greeks who made use of the "savoury" of offshore companies must be made public. They are hundreds of thirty names, and many more of the political people who used or rightly, abuse their power to feel guilty and that's why they have to hide their name and make their money out of Greece, to foreign companies and not to deposit them - because of where you had it - to the Greek banks, to the National Bank, Piraeus etc. I would like to say that in this case there is a typical post of 'REAL NEWS' on July 18, 2016, when the sole auditor at the direction of the Prosecutor of Corruption, was looking for the Group 'Marinopoulos'. You know, he's the one who flew in the street 12 thousand people and said "Come on, SYRIZA, come on, Tsipras, get the snake out of the hole, because there'll be twelve thousand people unemployed". It is, therefore, the one that, as the auditor says, the real assets of the "MARINOPOULOS" Group amounted to at least EUR 866 million and not to EUR 279 million. The route of EUR 866 million that MARINOPOULOS Group is reported to have fled abroad through a network of offshore companies is now in the microscope of justice after the specific report of the vowed auditor, lodged on July 12th at the Prosecutor of Corruption. I'm filing it in the Minutes. Thank you very much. [[At this point, the Member, Alexandros Triantafyllidis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Now, too, after the revelations of the last few days, what happened in this Chamber on June 1, 2016, when the SYRIZA - ANLE Government tabled an amendment to a universal ban on the participation of ministers and MPs in offshore companies, voted by a hundred ninety Members. Of course, then what does the guilty man do? He's leaving. The New Democracy left the debate, denounced the ambiguity of those responsible. "The pear has the tail," says our people and the rear tail of the pear unfold in a revealing way the last 24 hours in front of the eyes of the Greek people. I'm coming now, Minister, and I'll be a little sad. I've been accustomed to worrying you lately. However, it will have to be welcomed. This is about the fact that on 15 September my humility had raised the matter with the horizontal regulation on the issues relating to first residence. I say this because there is today as an issue in the newspapers on auctions. The first residence concerns us, and I say it, because time counts vice versa, Minister. We are separated fifty-three days until the end of Article 70(3) of Law No.4389/2016, which ends on 31-12-2017 and unblocks the freezing that we have made it possible for banks to sell in funds up to 140,000 euros. That is why I want to wait and because you said so, Minister. If you're kind! There's a world that feels insecure. He listens to this horror, fear “they will take away your homes, the communists, the banks, etc.”. Answer me. You said 'we are negotiating the extension of the first home for red loans'. Has this negotiation come to an end? Is it going to be an extension? Attention: I'm not talking about the Stathakis Law. The Stathakis Law, Article 14(1) of Law No.4346 ends at the end of 2018. I am referring to nr.4389 Article 70(3), paragraph 8, which we voted on in 2016, which ends in 2017 and therefore, now from the first euro real estate value, any bank can sell it in money. I would be obliged to you, all Greek citizens would be obliged if they were to listen to 50 three days before this deadline, what exactly do you intend to do about this horizontal arrangement, which - I am passing away - was also a commitment by the Prime Minister himself at the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki? I now come to the draft law. I'll be welcome here. I have in front of me - and I will submit it in the Minutes - the text of the Federation of Professional Producers' Associations - Sellers of the People's Markets of Macedonia, Thessaly and Thrace. It's also my area of the First Thessaloniki. So we're talking about the popular markets in Toumba, Charilau, Eusmos, Cordelio, Kalamaria, all over the town complex. People say what we said in committee. 90% speak of "...a draft law absolutely fair, functional and aptitude". They say, “...there was a very great job. The work is particularly important for the very simple reason that it was done in the first and second terms in the interests of consumers of the people's markets.’ This letter has been sent to you, as far as I can tell you, and it has also been communicated to Mr Papaderakis. It specifically mentions the reasons. It is worth mentioning in the Minutes, for the studyer the next day, in order to see why this argument, the draft law, which came out after consultation and a painful procedure, was important, so that there would be a weighting between the collective and the individual, between the producer and the consumer. You also had to face possible mafia pressures in the background that formed an opaque framework on this issue. It is very important, therefore, because we are always talking about people who wake up at four o'clock at dawn and want to make a elementary cut, producers and professionals. What do professionals say themselves? We're not talking about what Triantafylides, Papademitriou, Yakoumatos or Simorellis say. We're talking about what they're saying, they're filing it and they've sent it to you. They say as far as representation is concerned 'as many people's salesmen and producers as possible in collective representation groups in order to avoid the prevalence of synthesizing approaches to the various issues that arise in the interests of competition and consumers'. They have made sure that this just request is met. It reminds me of what the Prime Minister said: "It was just and it was done." That's what people themselves say. Neither we nor you nor the opposition nor the parties. Below they say "the categories of public purchasing licences provided for have been widened, i.e. public market sellers will be able to sell a greater variety of products". They also say ‘there is further provision in the draft law on the legalisation of the assistance of sellers and producers in the sales work by relatives of a grade, without requiring their separate insurance’. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute and I'll be done, Mr. President. I'd like your understanding. They also say: 'Finally, the indicative list of the conquests of this draft law could not be missing and the fact that it is intrinsic to this spirit of constitutional prediction of the principle of equality and equality, with the explicit provision of equal presence on the popular markets of professionals and producers of popular markets, with the so-called 'one to one' rule. The document concerns the Federation of Professional Producers' Associations of Laika Markets and is important. It's signed by the Federation Secretary. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Alexandros Triantafyllidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] There are only two issues left as loose ends, and I'll say telegraphs because I have to close as my time is over. The first is the request of the producers and professionals of Athens and Thessaloniki. Let us run this framework that we have created, and if in the next quarter or semester we see that it is necessary, especially for the town complexes of Athens and Thessaloniki, we can make some other arrangements, not so well to go back to the establishment of organisations, but something else, always with consultation, without surprise, always consent by professionals, consumers and others. The second point I would like to make - and my colleague Mr Skouricos mentioned it - sent it to us the 'Miscellaneous Intermediate Coordination' for Article 37. There are some points that could have been improved. But it's all right, because the enemy of the good is the best thing to do, which will follow. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr President, for your understanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u182	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, we have completed the list of speakers and will proceed to the seconds of the rapporteurs and the special speakers. Mr. Simorellis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u183	Thank you, Mr President. I could not praise the Minister, since all of us did a little "scotch shop" from plenary, and we went and had a cup of coffee, while the Minister, a loner there, was listening to us for more than eight hours. My second point is this: I have the impression that this bill has been discussed more than any other bill. More than two years ago, there was this consultation. It was worth it. I think that also with the meetings we have held and with the consultation of the committees, especially in the committee that we had the bodies, this draft law is finally being passed and, in general terms, we can say that it is a positive draft law, in a positive direction, and it gives solutions to issues that have been left unresolved for years, particularly for rural trade. It actually upgrades, gives the producer a solution to the farmer, to the professional seller, but I would even say to the consumers. However, I could not comment on Article 37, which raised an issue from Opposition, mainly from New Democracy. I listened carefully to Mr. Javarra. He has said that the people's markets, which took place from a long time ago, were a need of times. So is markets without intermediaries, the markets we call 'consumer markets', need of times. That's what it turned out to be. The world embraced them, the whole world that has been tortured for five years and is in crisis. From there on, however, I could not comment on the parliamentary representative of the Democratic Alliance, Mr Loverdos, and Mr Georgiadis. Mr. Loverdus what did he do? Going through markets without intermediaries, he reasoned to comment on brokers about equipment and so on. I would say to him: does he not look in his yard to see what happened in the last few years, where there is no Minister of National Defence who is not in prison or who is not accused? Finally, I would also like to make a comment on Mr Georgiadis, who came in forum, really sweaty. He came first to tell us that we're rich in SYRIZA and we're from fireplaces. However, I have the impression that he was nervous, because for the last two days the'Paradise islands' have had a stress. Mr. Georgiadis is here. They entered the logic of what they started, do laundry, clean the house, and especially when he actually embraces the Mitsotakis family. But the trouble of Mr. Georgiadis. No matter how detergent fire, laundry doesn't. This case isn't erasing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u184	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague, Mr Gerosios Yakoumatos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u185	Mr President, I have said so to the Standing Commission and to the plenary. But, Minister, I want to be beneficial. I'll tell you about Article 17, about toys and white items. Put them on. It's not bad. Sell only the "JUMBO"? So why can't he sell a little toy to the fairs and people's markets? The second issue is very difficult. Article 39 is for the amusement parks. There is no presidential decree - you said it yourself - nor a legislative framework. Everything works illegally, necessarily. We have deaths. We have accidents. Who's to blame? You have to make it clear to Rule 39. You said it and accepted it yourself. You said the legal framework was irregular. That's what the Council of State says. Thirdly, you speak of poor people, of solidarity. I'm really moved. Good for you. I don't give you sensitivity. We all have the sensitivity. We all look at the weak, each on his side. And, regardless of how many people put it otherwise, the New Democracy is a people's party. How do we do it? That's how it started. You are fined by a Roma or a small seller selling tsachsars - and you do well - but you are not licensed. You put him in six months' imprisonment. Why do you put her on? So much solidarity? So merciful? You're putting Roma in jail six months or the small seller because he doesn't have a license? Let's eat the fine. I told you again in Rule 65, as regards the chambers which self-financed, which do not get a single cent from the government, to set them a contour that is intact. I am not saying, as far as supplies are concerned, that they should go to the rules of the law. But as far as the services are concerned, take them off. These are the services in the chambers. With regard to Article 76 on road tours, I when I had the misfortune of being a Minister - you are, have others done - when you go to a county tour, Mr President - I do not know if you know it, but you will know it - the policeman who escorts you or someone who makes the graphics work and collects the requests, these civil servants take 17 euros a day. So, where are these people going to sleep? In the car? I'm ashamed to let him sleep in the car or the bench. But here, where the state is not burdening one euro, it can by decision of a board of directors put a range of money to give it more than that. Why would he go to the existing provisions? As far as Article 80 is concerned, you can extract from the general government, from the Chamber, from a chamber worker, from the government rather than from the chamber. It is not right for them to pay the chambers of deportees who are seconded by the general government. Of course, I told you up to thirty thousand of the Chamber to have two seconded and not one and more than thirty thousand not to have two, but four. These are generally - not to say my complaints - my proposals, which have both logic and are useful and will benefit. I have to say, Minister, that a lot of what I said to you in the Standing Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection you have accepted and in your honour. That is why we New Democracy, regardless of what some badly-willed Members have said, support this bill in principle. In both years when the consultations were taking place, the New Democracy was traded with the actors, with the Roma, with the people, with the traders. We made contacts all the time, just like you did and you did well. We have seen their problems, and that is why we support this bill in principle, and we are not opposed. Whatever's for the people, what's beneficial, we're with you. We are simply making a few comments, which I think will be better, Mr President, both for the Chambers and for the people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u186	Thank you, Mr. Yakumato. Mr Constantinople has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u187	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that today, as happens every time, the Independent Greeks table some amendments, for the eyes of the world and table them in every bill. The first amendment - which they have tabled eighteen thousand times, despite their co-government - relates to the letters of guarantee, particularly to the Chamber of Atolokarna. All citizens and beneficiaries understand that this is just a mockery. Secondly, they are tabling another amendment on people's markets, which I do not understand why you are not doing so. If they cannot, they cannot vote for the bill for the establishment of the people's markets. They're in the government and they have to choose. Now, with regard to what lies within the Chamber, which New Democracy and SYRIZA are fighting for Panama Papers, for Kammenos, for one, for the other, I think they're a little blush left and a little blush liberal. I'll explain. People's markets are really an ideological issue. But what's the matter with the people's markets? What are they doing that both of us are voting for? They make thousands of people's markets. It is not just without intermediaries - we will see what this is - but it is done for thousands of industrial goods. Is there any competition? In what terms? Is there a consumer somewhere where the quality of the products is ensured when you open this issue? No, of course not. So we don't care. There is a syndicate theme, some to serve sellers and some to serve some trade union interests. To ask you, at the end of the day, who will be hit? Producer. Because, as the producers in the committee have told you, there is no producer going to the people without intermediaries. The ones selling cheese, the ones selling salamia. Mr Moschos told you, who is from your side rather than from ours. He told you that what Mr. Tsipras said in the big mobilizations did not act. You come today, both New Democracy and SYRIZA, to say that you are interested in the people's markets without intermediaries. For industrial species? For the dealer who pays his VAT, his rent, pays all of them? So the death of the merchant both from SYRIZA and New Democracy! This is the reality and as much as fighting for all the rest, it is artificial that has no substance. As you know, in these grassroots that the producers do not go to, the items consumed are mainly large quantities of Greek products and the people in question win or like the famous potatoes, which were in refrigerators for eight years and sold them on the market without intermediaries for fresh potatoes. It's a familiar matter, and you all know it. So you're neither left-wing nor liberal. What you're interested in is the syndicates. But you have been answered for all this, Minister. You were not when Mr Tsipras went out and told the producers, with Mr Moschos, that everything would change, that there would be people's market organizations. You weren't here then, you were in America. While you can see that it is a mistake what has been done and we are saying it was a mistake that we went to the regions and it has to change, because the rewards have to go to Greek producers and to the Greek citizen, you do not. Do you know why you don't? Because the New Democracy can't mess with Mr. Djijkosta and you can't get the money from Mrs. Duru. That's the reality. You have two of whom you want to manage the money of producers and citizens. Secondly, Minister, I do not know what to vote for in the Chambers. What will your MPs vote for? The amendment that they voted in August or what you brought today? We're talking about absolute mocking! But, ladies, didn't you say you'd just bring the chambers analogy? What system are you voting on today? Reinforced majority! Does the amendment you voted in August have anything to do with what you are voting on? We're talking about absolute mockery, about the absolute deterioration of the institution. We cannot vote for it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Minister, you have brought Amendment No 1336. It has a lot of issues that we will be voting on, but I would like to tell you about the first issue. What are you doing here? The Minister of Economy can, he says, set up projects, establish development programmes. Minister, do you know what that means? It means that what programmes are ruptured and non-competitive, which were made 15 years ago, put on by the ministers while they knew that they would never be implemented, that after 15 years, SYRIZA, probably to serve as MP, Minister, Mayor or anything else, and for projects that are not mature, as you know - because the ripe projects are going directly into the EDP, at least that you know - we are going to put this project in the province, which is not mature, but we will put it to the co-financed after ten years, after the studies or anything else. But will we go back 15 years, when every Member of Parliament, every minister, went and said a piece of work, and in the end did we end up being unable to do any work? What can I tell you, Minister? There's really no point in that. Thirdly, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, you are voting together with the New Democracy for the OBI, for the only agency that has not entered the single wage bill. You are covering him today with your vote. They have gone to the courts, you have changed two administrations of yours, and today you are voting together with the New Democracy to cover those who did not agree to join, while everyone else entered the single payroll. And they have an allowance, as George Amyras said earlier, and reach 7,000 euros. Good for you! Congratulations on what you're doing. It is the ultimate coverage of the two major parties towards an organization that has these characteristics. Because I heard things - Mr. Loverdos left a moment ago - I would like to tell you that in these procedures that have taken place in previous years, everyone is judged. I am very proud that I did not participate in these procedures. My resignation stayed up, and today we can speak with everyone. I just want to remind you that many of Mr Tsohazopoulou's colleagues, such as Mr Kotsakas, are at SYRIZA today. It is not possible, but we will have to respond to that. Secondly, former Minister Tsohatopoulos himself said in his last interview that he voted for SYRIZA in the last elections and would vote again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u188	What do you want us to do about it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u189	Thank you, Mr. Colleague. Mr. Shahinides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u190	Thank you, Mr President. Honestly, it surprises me, and I have great wonder that I have heard most of the co-legislators claim that the bill is two years in consultation and will solve a lot of the problems. I do not see you agreeing on any of what the representatives of operators have proposed. What they have all proposed - and everyone who has spoken from the Golden Dawn side has mentioned it - is the re-establishment of the People's Markets Organization. In fact, some of SYRIZA's MPs have spoken deceptively about this. They said it'd be a setback. In fact, in his dentistry, and the SYRIZA rapporteur said developments require us to move forward. If you think that's how we go ahead, you're deeply mistaken. I have the impression that we have been informed by different bodies in the committees and by you differently, as well as by the memos. This was not the case in the whole procedure, at least because of what we had in mind. The last speaker, Mr Triantafyllidis, - and he is your Member - made a reference to red loans and asked the Minister a question. Because it has been said repeatedly by your own MPs that the houses that come out of auctions as first houses are villas, did I really want to ask Mr Triantafylides - who left - the sixty-two-year-old widow from Euosmos with the two minor children also had a villa? To clarify it to us. I will wait for the Minister's reply and tell us whether there will be an extension in the fifty-three days. I would also like to see a commitment from the Minister on what is your Government's intentions in case first homes have been taken out in auction so that these homes can be taken back. They also referred to Paradise Papers. In fact, last night, Mr Triantafyllidis participated in a show, on which the subject was Paradise Papers. But no one in this Chamber has told us what is happening with all the rest of the lists. If I'm not mistaken, they must be about fifteen to twenty. No one has told us how much fines have been imposed, not how much has been received. It is a constant request of the Golden Dawn to which you must answer. We have also sometimes proposed to various other drafts of law, since you so much want to give plenty of light to the various scandals, to make a proposal to examine the issue of Piraeus. Are you going to - why can't we - a proposal like this? With regard to Article 19, we have heard - and of course I say it ironically - about parity and parity. What is the parity and what is the parity? I said it in my first talk. Article 19 abolishes isology, abolishes equivalence because the provisions - as I have said before - were explicitly provided for in Article 14, Mr Minister, what is the right of every vulnerable group and the multitude and the released and third parties and the Roma. He told them in detail. Now, in the way you go to make these permits available, you probably want to place the licenses on a particular and only vulnerable group. The amendment with a general number of 1305 and a specialist 16 has also been withdrawn, but a little late. It seems to you that at the last minute you realised that the bill is in plenary tomorrow, which is directly related to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u191	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague, Mr Moraite, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u192	Thank you, Mr President. Despite any improvements, particularly in procedural matters, this bill, in our opinion, does not respond to the enormous problems faced by poor farmers, small traders and consumers, who are trying to survive the suffocating sovereignty and expansion of monopolistic groups, through an endless list of anti-grassroots measures. We in most of the articles in the bill, as we said in the committee, will vote'residents'. At the same time, we call on the poor and medium-sized farms, the small mamazators, the small traders, the consumers, the self-employed not to fool themselves, to show no tolerance, to create a front for resistance, conflict, social alliance against the black front of monopolies, governments, the European Union. Otherwise, their future is set and it is torn apart and poverty. We'd like to stand by some articles in Part I that we're going to vote against. For example, in Article 11, we are opposed, because in paragraph 2, it provides for insurance to be provided for information. No profession is provided for, because someone owes insurance contributions. This was also the universal demand of the bodies at the hearing. We are also voting against Article 15, because paragraph 2 states that the paradox will be determined by a ministerial decision. We are firmly opposed to these paradoxes or other such issues being defined by the Minister in question. There has been an issue in today's debate, but also in the hearing of operators, in particular in Article 17, that games should not be excluded unless you have in mind that this is exclusively in the "JUMBO" or in the big chains of stores. We are also voting against and disagree with Article 21, which allows the transfer to be made once and for all to those who already have a licence, and is not allowed to be authorised by the law. Also in Article 22, we are totally opposed to paragraph c. of this article, which provides that the licence shall be withdrawn if the professional has debts in his tax office or in his insurance company. We are also opposed to Article 23, to the transfer of licences. Transfer can only be made in the event of death or disability over 67%. It removes the possibility of transferring to family members when there is retirement, while it is assumed that the whole family, working for survival, is fighting on the market. We also disagree in Article 37 with the aim of consumer markets, as presented in the bill. We believe that they are part of the illusory concept of SYRIZA, that such collectives - self-managed consumer groups, etc. - they can undertake to rationalise the market, protect consumers and exalt capitalism. Also in Article 30, Mr Minister, you have made it known that you have asked operators to increase in terms of the days for Christmas markets. It is demanding that there should also be an increase at 15 days for Easter markets. We are also voting against Article 59, and we have a particular objection to paragraph 1, which allows the transfer of the licence of the professional seller for only one time. This is a serious issue and it needs to be changed. As far as Part II of the bill is concerned, we noted that the chambers are playing the role of an anti-popular policy handler. They have a decisive contribution to the development of state policy. The aim of the bill today is to incorporate self-employed persons in urban planning. We call on the self-employed to overcome the blemishes of this policy, to organise their struggle, to fight against these policies that lead them to poverty and impoverishment. As far as the amendment is concerned, with a general number of 1336 and a special number 22, which is, in fact, a mini bill, we are voting 'no' in its entirety and in every article. Article 1(1) enables the Minister of Economy and Development to establish special-purpose development programmes within the framework of the Public Investment Programme, aimed clearly at serving the interests of business groups. You do the same in Article 4(4). You are arranged to grant subsidies to concessionaires of large motorways, such as Corinth - Tripoli - Kalamata and others. You do exactly the same as the previous PASOK and New Democracy governments, when they gave the toll to the large construction groups. And you have the courage, Minister, to say in the explanatory statement that the ordinary budget will not be imposed. So the Public Investment Project isn't from the employee tax? We are also voting against the amendment with a general number of 1313 and a special 17. Despite what the Ministry, the Government, in its explanatory statement, claims to protect the patent in Greece, this is not true. You are not protecting small producers involved in patenting. You are serving the large groups, which have the possibility of certification, of obtaining a patent, in accordance with Euro-Union legislation. At the end of the day, these large businesses take every effort of small patents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u193	Thank you. Mr. Lazarides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u194	Thank you, Mr President. I have heard the PASOK, in the opposition to which it is committed, commenting on two amendments which I have tabled. One concerned popular markets. The other concerned the Chamber of Aetolokarnania. I would like to reply that both amendments concern corrections and treatments of tragic errors of PASOK and New Democracy policies. I am starting with the amendment concerning the Chamber of Aetolokarnania, but it extends for all of Greece. You know, before this amendment, about a year and a half ago, I had tabled another amendment, which was accepted twice and actually relieved people there. This amendment concerned the 2004 and 2011 investment laws that brought investment projects, but they had not predicted what would happen if those who had joined these laws, for reasons of force majeure, could not implement the programmes and wanted to return the money. This possibility was not provided for by the law for investors. Other people had fallen victim to earthquakes and other weather phenomena, such as floods and fires that they had in Itolocarnania. So these people wanted to turn their money back and there was no legislative framework to turn it around. With the amendment, which I had brought in a year and a half ago, we allowed people to return the money. Is that bad? For PASOK, it's bad. So cynical is PASOK against all these people. Now, with this amendment, what do we do? People are asking for these refunds that they do not impose commissions and various other bank charges. Is that bad? Since the bail letters received from the banks did not need them, they did not need them because the programme was not implemented. So we're trying to relieve these people. For PASOK, however, that's not necessary. PASOK spokesman also used another tough expression: "As for the death of the merchant...". But who killed the dealer? You killed the trader. What period did all of Greece fill closed stores? For the period 2010-2014. You didn't go out on TVs and say that the commercial world is counterproductive and we need production, because all of them are imported and closed after the other? You did all this! Mr Minister, we have made some suggestions here, but you have hardly taken any suggestions into consideration. On the question of imprisonment, we really said it was extreme and cruel. I will tell you something, Minister: the harder the penalties are provided for in a bill, the more certain that this will not apply, at least the provisions that have the cruel penalties. It is unfair in six months, this six-month imprisonment, mainly involving vulnerable groups such as the Roma or producers who want to sell their produce and go out and get caught. It was the five-mile, now he's in the semester. That's unfair. Just like we said about the other guy. These 5,000 fines, which they had put together, have accumulated and it is certain that people will not pay, because they cannot. They are consistent, law-abiding citizens, but they cannot. They've accumulated a lot. You did not make any comment on that. Another thing about tax information, the renewal of the permits of sellers or producers of the people's markets. You know, I said that, when a citizen is called in for tax control, as long as it is under the control procedure, it cannot get tax information and this procedure can last from one year to five years. For five years, that is, he won't be able to get any information. So what's he gonna do? Will he miss the license? At least here you should provide for the person who needs to renew his license, get tax information, which says: 'To renew a license for a popular market.' We definitely need to see that. I tabled two amendments, Mr Minister. The amendment I mentioned earlier on about Ioannina, which, in any case, concerns all of Greece, you rejected without commenting on it at all. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall end in a minute at most, Mr President. You did the same with the other amendment, for the people's markets, and this amendment was complete with the people's markets. I, at least, expected you to listen to a comment, that is to say, explain it. You could say it's in the right direction or something. Nothing at all you said. You just said 'I'm not accepting it' while it was costly. We proved all the procedures. We had inside all the data that these institutions are self-financed. They're not burdening the state budget. They don't leave a negative financial footprint. Anyway, I expected you to say something. You didn't say anything. On the contrary, you are accepting and going ahead with the amendment I have read, with a general number of 1313 and a special 17. I wonder why the report of the General Accounting Office of the State says: ‘The amount of such expenditure cannot be determined as it depends on the content of the agreements concluded’. In other words, you are accepting an amendment which does not specify the expenditure. It does not define expenditure, i.e. it may be the budget, it may be the budget, it may be the budget, it may be the cost, it will be the cost, it may cost, and it may cause other problems. You accept this and reject the amendments which I have tabled without question. I really do, Minister, can't accept this. I consider myself offended by this. I was expecting at least some explanation for these two amendments. Because I'm telling you again that they were full and costly. Anyway, time's up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u195	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Marios Georgiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u196	Thank you very much, Mr President. In this Chamber, we're going to go crazy. We've started remarkably to the Minister because he's doing his job. Who's that? To be here watching and listening to everyone. I mean, I can't dig that thing, we can praise a minister. Of course it is in honor of the Minister who is here, because other ministers are not. How much more so the Prime Minister, when the political leaders are speaking, who are either in his office or somewhere else and only come to hear the Chief of Officership. We have discredited the parliamentary work in all dimensions, and this also seems to be how we legislate. Even in this bill, we have involved outdoor commercial activities with the chambers, and let me not repeat myself in my turn. All colleagues have said it. You spoke of an integrated bill, which has been in consultation for two years, and even for the last nine months with four hundred sixty-four comments. However, you have had to make more than a hundred legislative improvements during the two meetings, the committees and the plenary. We shall now proceed to the amendments. I am referring to Amendment 1336, which deals with subsidies that the ministers have the right to use in relation to the NRP. There are too many different articles in it and some of them, as Mr Constantinople mentioned, are positive and some of them cannot be supported. We therefore have to say, in fact, either 'no' or 'no' to an amendment, which is likely to have a positive sign at the end. Throughout the draft law, as a whole, many of the provisions are positive. The implementation of these, however, creates too many problems. I shall make a reference to Amendment 1332/19, our amendment which you have ignored, for your own reasons probably, because we referred to it and during the committees. I'm trying to figure out why this happened. They also referred to imprisonment. We believe that this is too strict and goes beyond the issue of fines. But we are talking about fines, which will never be paid. I understand that they may give you some thought, because you will have to get them out of your budget and it is not easy to do that. However, you could go ahead with a settlement of these. Also, how will we give the Greek Roma, who have legal residence in Greece, have work permits, start over and do their job by giving them an incentive? How much more wondered about the other, which was very simple and could you do so, to increase the limit of the prefectures populations, which these people could be active on, and of the three thousand who are now to go to the fifteen thousand that we have proposed. I don't think he'd cause any trouble. It would barely open up the market and would not limit them to go to only ten to fifteen cities all over Greece, so that they could sell some things. I will not comment too much and I will not go into the details of the articles, because the vote is coming, and it will be good to finish today's process. I will conclude with a comment that Constantinople made, which said that Mr Tsohatzopoulos said he voted for SYRIZA and will vote again. What's the surprise, Mr. Comrade? Half of PASOK, for SYRIZA to go from 3% to 40%, has moved and gone to SYRIZA. How would 40% be if PASOK weren't leaving and you're 40% to be 5%? So I have no surprises about other Members going to vote SYRIZA, because the former PASOK ministers are now ministers of the current government. I'm not surprised, Mr. Constantinople, what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u197	People in villages and cities did 37%.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u198	People in villages and cities did 37%, and they're gonna make you 3% again. Be well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u199	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague Mr Amyras has the floor. His is the last intervention. Then the Minister follows and then the votes. Mr. Amyras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u200	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Constantinople, you have your honour at the end. We're reporting on you. You have wondered or directly asked the SYRIZA Members - ANEL why in the chambers of chambers simply they go to the enhanced analogy for the elections. Asshole! It's not a big velvet ass. It is a small picture showing what political instability this government is moving forward. See today what else happened. Three ministers - the Minister of Justice, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Civil Protection - held a meeting with the notaries and said they would take strict measures now to protect the notaries in order to make the auctions. Otherwise, a fourth capitalisation is awaiting us. Let me remind you that a capitalisation has already been made by SYRIZA itself with the ANELs. In other words, what he said was harmful to the place, uses it and whistles indifferently. Be careful, then, don't go two or two to the recapitalisations. I would like to ask a very practical question, Mr Minister, and I would like a very specific answer to Rule 37, on consumer markets without intermediaries, as we call them. Will they cut evidence from cash registers? What I'm asking matters and I want an answer. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] Of course you can tell us what the procedures or criteria are, or, in any case, the guarantees for the control of the movement of products. There are, you know, various cases - we have seen them published in the press - in which in such markets, in my view, they are healthy and we need them, there were some kind of savage people who sold imported, imported, imported from Bulgaria, from here and from there or unknown from. So I would like you to answer how you can ensure them. I conclude - I do not need any more time - with this: Tax evasion and arrogance are scourges! You remember, of course, the government was telling us that it would take EUR 1 billion every year from combating tax evasion, counterfeiting, smuggling and tobacco.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u201	We're taking it more than that!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u202	You don't take it more than that! Go to the official figures of the Treasury and you'll see how poor the mercy of your effort is. But that is the point, the big words! Prove to me, then, that you brought 1 billion euros. Prove with what evidence? And I will provide you with information from the Ministry of Finance, which is the reality, and it will be very displeased, Mr. Comrade. In any case, I conclude by saying that the bill has good regulations, which we will be voting in favour of. It's also bad that we're going to vote against. We still have questions and I invite you to give us the answers. For the amendments, I tell you now that we will vote against the amendment to the OBI, we will also vote against the amendment on specific development programmes, with compensation and all that money, overtime and other decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u203	Thank you, Mr. Amyras. The Minister for Economy and Development has the floor, Mr Papadimitriou, and then the vote will begin.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u204	Thank you very much, Mr President. I have to respond first of all to the voices of the Vice-President of the New Democracy, Mr Georgian. Mr. Georgiadis knows that the money that me and my wife have in America and the private pension scheme have not been out of the country and have gone to America. It's the result of a hard job of fifty years in America. They have been taxed and taxed at the highest rates of the US law tax and have been declared "outside." I have no investments in offshore, I'm not in Paradise Papers, nor in Panama Papers, or in Christine Lagard's list. I also wanted to say to Mr Georgiadis that he needs mathematical or just numerical lessons. He obviously doesn't know how to add or remove. I would now like to reply to the question from the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Yakoumatos, about family businesses. As you know, the European definition of'very small' business refers to a turnover of EUR 1 million. Obviously, it is not suitable for the case before us. A further study is therefore needed, on the one hand, for the type of enterprises that would be eligible, on the other hand, for the supporting documents required to confirm that they fulfil the conditions for the law, which will put them in place. Without this advance, it is likely that this type of licences will displace other categories of beneficiaries, since public places where such markets are organised are not unlimited. There is therefore a risk that the social nature of the people's markets will be called into question. Moreover, the draft law allows producers to market processed products in the countryside, provided that their raw material is their own production. I would also like to refer to Article 37 and say that consumer markets differ from other markets, such as the people's markets, in that they are organised by the citizens themselves. The role of self-government is also important because, without the decision of the municipal council, the market cannot be organised. It is well known that these activities have already been organised in several municipalities in recent years and the bill sets out terms and rules. Therefore, these arrangements ensure the expression of solidarity in practice. As regards the control of these markets, everything in force for other forms of rural trade has been explicitly foreseen. It is incomprehensible, therefore, how the organisation of a social economy, open to all active citizens, is presented as an expression of a customer relationship. I should also like to give Mr Constantinople, as others have done with regard to Article 73. Whether an electoral system is majority or proportional is not dependent on the number of crosses, but on how the electoral measure is calculated. Once the electoral measure is calculated by reference to the total number of Chamber seats and not to the number of seats in each section, it is clear that proportionality is significantly enhanced. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Give me two more minutes, Mr. President. Finally, I would like to reply to Mr Amyras on Article 12. The drafting of the joint ministerial decision has already begun. In any case, however, its adoption is not a precondition for the application of the law. Its main purpose is to specialise some control issues, in cooperation with the Ministry of Rural Development. I would also like to point out once again that the government has committed itself to protecting the first residence. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to vote in favour of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u205	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development is adjourned: 'Exercise of outdoor commercial activities, modernisation of chamber legislation and other provisions'. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u206	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u207	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u208	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u209	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u210	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u211	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u212	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u213	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u214	Consequently, the bill of the Ministry of Economy and Development: "Outdoor commercial activities, modernisation of the chamber legislation and other provisions" was accepted in principle by a majority. We are going to vote on the articles and they will be voted on separately. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u215	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u216	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u217	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u218	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u219	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u220	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u221	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u222	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u223	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u224	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u225	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u226	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u227	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u228	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u229	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u230	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u231	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u232	Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 3 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u233	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u234	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u235	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u236	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u237	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u238	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u239	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u240	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u241	Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 4, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u242	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u243	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u244	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u245	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u246	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u247	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u248	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u249	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u250	Article 4 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u251	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u252	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u253	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u254	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u255	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u256	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u257	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u258	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u259	Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u260	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u261	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u262	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u263	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u264	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u265	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u266	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u267	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u268	Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 7 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u269	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u270	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u271	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u272	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u273	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u274	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u275	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u276	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u277	Article 7 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Article 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u278	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u279	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u280	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u281	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u282	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u283	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u284	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u285	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u286	Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 9 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u287	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u288	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u289	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u290	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u291	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u292	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u293	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u294	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u295	Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u296	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u297	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u298	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u299	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u300	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u301	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u302	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u303	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u304	Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 11 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u305	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u306	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u307	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u308	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u309	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u310	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u311	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u312	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u313	Article 11 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u314	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u315	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u316	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u317	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u318	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u319	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u320	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u321	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u322	Article 12 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 13 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u323	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u324	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u325	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u326	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u327	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u328	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u329	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u330	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u331	Article 13 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 14 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u332	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u333	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u334	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u335	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u336	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u337	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u338	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u339	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u340	Article 14 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 15 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u341	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u342	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u343	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u344	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u345	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u346	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u347	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u348	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u349	Article 15 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 16 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u350	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u351	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u352	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u353	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u354	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u355	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u356	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u357	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u358	Article 16 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 17 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u359	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u360	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u361	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u362	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u363	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u364	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u365	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u366	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u367	Article 17 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 18 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u368	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u369	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u370	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u371	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u372	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u373	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u374	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u375	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u376	Article 18 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 19 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u377	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u378	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u379	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u380	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u381	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u382	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u383	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u384	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u385	Article 19 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 20 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u386	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u387	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u388	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u389	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u390	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u391	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u392	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u393	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u394	Article 20 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 21 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u395	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u396	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u397	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u398	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u399	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u400	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u401	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u402	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u403	Article 21 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 22 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u404	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u405	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u406	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u407	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u408	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u409	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u410	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u411	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u412	Article 22 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 23 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u413	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u414	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u415	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u416	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u417	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u418	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u419	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u420	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u421	Article 23 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 24 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u422	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u423	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u424	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u425	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u426	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u427	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u428	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u429	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u430	Article 24 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 25 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u431	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u432	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u433	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u434	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u435	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u436	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u437	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u438	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u439	Article 25 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 26 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u440	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u441	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u442	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u443	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u444	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u445	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u446	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u447	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u448	Article 26 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 27 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u449	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u450	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u451	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u452	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u453	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u454	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u455	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u456	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u457	Article 27 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 28 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u458	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u459	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u460	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u461	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u462	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u463	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u464	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u465	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u466	Article 28 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does the House accept Rule 29, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u467	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u468	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u469	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u470	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u471	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u472	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u473	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u474	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u475	Article 29 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 30 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u476	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u477	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u478	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u479	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u480	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u481	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u482	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u483	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u484	Article 30 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 31 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u485	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u486	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u487	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u488	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u489	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u490	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u491	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u492	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u493	Article 31 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 32 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u494	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u495	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u496	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u497	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u498	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u499	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u500	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u501	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u502	Article 32 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 33 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u503	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u504	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u505	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u506	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u507	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u508	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u509	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u510	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u511	Article 33 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 34 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u512	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u513	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u514	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u515	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u516	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u517	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u518	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u519	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u520	Article 34 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 35 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u521	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u522	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u523	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u524	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u525	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u526	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u527	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u528	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u529	Article 35 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 36 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u530	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u531	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u532	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u533	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u534	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u535	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u536	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u537	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u538	Article 36 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 37 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u539	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u540	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u541	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u542	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u543	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u544	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u545	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u546	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u547	Article 37 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 38 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u548	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u549	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u550	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u551	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u552	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u553	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u554	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u555	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u556	Article 38 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 39 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u557	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u558	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u559	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u560	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u561	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u562	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u563	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u564	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u565	Article 39 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 40 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u566	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u567	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u568	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u569	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u570	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u571	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u572	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u573	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u574	Article 40 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 41 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u575	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u576	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u577	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u578	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u579	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u580	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u581	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u582	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u583	Article 41 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 42 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u584	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u585	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u586	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u587	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u588	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u589	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u590	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u591	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u592	Article 42 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 43 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u593	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u594	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u595	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u596	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u597	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u598	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u599	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u600	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u601	Article 43 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 44 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u602	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u603	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u604	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u605	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u606	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u607	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u608	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u609	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u610	Article 44 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 45 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u611	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u612	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u613	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u614	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u615	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u616	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u617	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u618	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u619	Article 45 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 46 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u620	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u621	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u622	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u623	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u624	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u625	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u626	Oh, no. On the contrary, we had tabled our own amendment, the general number of 1332 and a specialist 19, which was not accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u627	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u628	Article 46 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 47 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u629	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u630	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u631	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u632	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u633	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u634	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u635	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u636	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u637	Article 47 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 48 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u638	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u639	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u640	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u641	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u642	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u643	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u644	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u645	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u646	Article 48 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 49 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u647	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u648	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u649	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u650	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u651	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u652	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u653	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u654	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u655	Article 49 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 50 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u656	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u657	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u658	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u659	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u660	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u661	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u662	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u663	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u664	Article 50 has therefore been accepted as a majority. Will Rule 51 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u665	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u666	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u667	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u668	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u669	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u670	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u671	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u672	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u673	Article 51 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 52 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u674	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u675	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u676	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u677	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u678	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u679	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u680	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u681	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u682	Article 52 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 53 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u683	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u684	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u685	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u686	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u687	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u688	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u689	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u690	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u691	Article 53 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 54 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u692	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u693	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u694	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u695	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u696	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u697	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u698	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u699	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u700	Article 54 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 55 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u701	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u702	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u703	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u704	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u705	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u706	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u707	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u708	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u709	Article 55 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 56 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u710	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u711	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u712	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u713	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u714	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u715	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u716	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u717	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u718	Article 56 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 57 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u719	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u720	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u721	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u722	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u723	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u724	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u725	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u726	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u727	Article 57 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 58 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u728	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u729	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u730	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u731	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u732	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u733	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u734	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u735	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u736	Article 58 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 59 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u737	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u738	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u739	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u740	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u741	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u742	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u743	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u744	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u745	Article 59 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 60 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u746	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u747	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u748	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u749	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u750	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u751	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u752	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u753	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u754	Article 60 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 61 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u755	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u756	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u757	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u758	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u759	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u760	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u761	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u762	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u763	Article 61 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 62 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u764	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u765	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u766	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u767	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u768	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u769	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u770	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u771	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u772	Article 62 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 63 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u773	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u774	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u775	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u776	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u777	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u778	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u779	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u780	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u781	Article 63 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 64 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u782	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u783	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u784	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u785	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u786	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u787	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u788	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u789	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u790	Article 64 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 65 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u791	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u792	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u793	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u794	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u795	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u796	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u797	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u798	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u799	Article 65 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 66 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u800	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u801	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u802	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u803	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u804	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u805	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u806	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u807	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u808	Article 66 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 67 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u809	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u810	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u811	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u812	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u813	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u814	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u815	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u816	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u817	Article 67 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 68 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u818	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u819	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u820	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u821	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u822	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u823	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u824	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u825	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u826	Article 68 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 69 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u827	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u828	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u829	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u830	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u831	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u832	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u833	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u834	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u835	Article 69 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 70 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u836	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u837	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u838	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u839	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u840	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u841	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u842	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u843	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u844	Article 70 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 71 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u845	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u846	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u847	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u848	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u849	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u850	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u851	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u852	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u853	Article 71 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 72 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u854	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u855	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u856	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u857	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u858	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u859	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u860	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u861	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u862	Article 72 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 73 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u863	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u864	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u865	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u866	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u867	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u868	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u869	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u870	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u871	Article 73 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 74 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u872	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u873	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u874	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u875	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u876	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u877	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u878	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u879	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u880	Article 74 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 75 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u881	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u882	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u883	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u884	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u885	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u886	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u887	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u888	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u889	Article 75 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 76 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u890	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u891	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u892	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u893	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u894	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u895	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u896	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u897	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u898	Article 76 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 77 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u899	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u900	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u901	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u902	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u903	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u904	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u905	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u906	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u907	Article 77 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 78 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u908	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u909	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u910	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u911	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u912	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u913	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u914	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u915	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u916	Article 78 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 79 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u917	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u918	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u919	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u920	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u921	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u922	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u923	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u924	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u925	Article 79 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 80 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u926	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u927	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u928	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u929	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u930	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u931	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u932	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u933	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u934	Article 80 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 81 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u935	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u936	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u937	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u938	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u939	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u940	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u941	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u942	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u943	Article 81 was therefore accepted as majority. Will Rule 82 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u944	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u945	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u946	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u947	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u948	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u949	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u950	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u951	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u952	Article 82 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 83 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u953	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u954	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u955	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u956	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u957	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u958	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u959	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u960	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u961	Article 83 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 84 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u962	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u963	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u964	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u965	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u966	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u967	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u968	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u969	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u970	Article 84 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 85 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u971	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u972	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u973	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u974	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u975	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u976	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u977	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u978	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u979	Article 85 was therefore accepted as majority. Will Rule 86 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u980	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u981	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u982	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u983	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u984	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u985	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u986	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u987	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u988	Article 86 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 87 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u989	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u990	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u991	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u992	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u993	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u994	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u995	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u996	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u997	Article 87 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 88 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u998	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u999	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1000	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1001	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1002	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1003	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1004	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1005	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1006	Article 88 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 89 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1007	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1008	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1009	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1010	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1011	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1012	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1013	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1014	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1015	Article 89 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 90 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1016	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1017	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1018	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1019	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1020	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1021	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1022	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1023	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1024	Article 90 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 91 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1025	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1026	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1027	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1028	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1029	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1030	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1031	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1032	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1033	Article 91 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 92 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1034	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1035	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1036	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1037	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1038	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1039	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1040	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1041	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1042	Article 92 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 93 as such be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1043	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1044	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1045	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1046	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1047	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1048	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1049	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1050	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1051	Article 93 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 94 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1052	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1053	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1054	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1055	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1056	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1057	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1058	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1059	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1060	Article 94 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 95 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1061	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1062	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1063	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1064	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1065	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1066	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1067	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1068	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1069	Article 95 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 96 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1070	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1071	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1072	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1073	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1074	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1075	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1076	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1077	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1078	Article 96 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 97 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1079	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1080	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1081	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1082	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1083	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1084	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1085	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1086	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1087	Article 97 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 98 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1088	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1089	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1090	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1091	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1092	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1093	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1094	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1095	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1096	Article 98 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 99 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1097	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1098	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1099	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1100	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1101	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1102	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1103	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1104	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1105	Article 99 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 100 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1106	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1107	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1108	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1109	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1110	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1111	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1112	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1113	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1114	Article 100 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 101 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1115	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1116	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1117	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1118	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1119	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1120	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1121	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1122	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1123	Article 101 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 102 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1124	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1125	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1126	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1127	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1128	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1129	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1130	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1131	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1132	Article 102 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 103 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1133	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1134	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1135	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1136	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1137	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1138	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1139	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1140	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1141	Article 103 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 104 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1142	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1143	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1144	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1145	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1146	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1147	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1148	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1149	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1150	Article 104 was therefore accepted as it is by a majority. Will Rule 105 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1151	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1152	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1153	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1154	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1155	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1156	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1157	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1158	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1159	Article 105 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 106 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1160	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1161	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1162	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1163	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1164	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1165	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1166	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1167	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1168	Article 106 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 107 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1169	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1170	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1171	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1172	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1173	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1174	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1175	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1176	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1177	Article 107 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 108 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1178	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1179	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1180	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1181	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1182	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1183	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1184	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1185	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1186	Article 108 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 109 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1187	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1188	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1189	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1190	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1191	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1192	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1193	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1194	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1195	Article 109 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 110 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1196	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1197	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1198	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1199	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1200	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1201	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1202	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1203	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1204	Article 110 has therefore been rejected. Is the amendment accepted under a general number of 1336 and a special number of 22?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1205	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1206	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1207	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1208	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1209	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1210	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1211	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1212	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1213	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1336 and a special 22 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1214	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1215	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1216	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1217	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1218	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1219	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1220	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1221	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1222	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the bill of the Ministry of Economy and Development: "Exercise of outdoor commercial activities, modernisation of logistics and other provisions" was accepted in principle and under the articles. We move on to vote on the bill and on the whole. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1223	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1224	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1225	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1226	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1227	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1228	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1229	Present
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1230	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1231	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development: ‘Exercise of outdoor commercial activities, modernisation of chamber legislation and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1232	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1233	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, before we close the sitting, I have the honour of announcing the following to the House: The Standing Committee on Social Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Health "The Harmonization of Greek law with the European Directive 2003/88/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 November 2003 on certain aspects of the organization of working time" regarding the organization of the working time of doctors and dentists of E.S... - I.D. Doctors' arrangements. and other provisions.’; Also, the Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights forwarded to Parliament in accordance with Rule 86 of the Constitution and Rule3126/2003 ‘Priminal Responsibility of Ministers’, as in force, on 6-11-2017: 1. Criminal case law concerning the former Minister for Finance and Others George Papaconstantinou and Evangelos Venizelos. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Criminal proceedings concerning the current Minister for National Defence in the years 2006 to 2012, Mr. Spiliotopoulos, Evangelos Meimarakis, Panos Beglitis, Dimitrios Avramopoulos, Francoulis Fragos and Panagiotis (Pano) Panagiotopoulos (three transcripts). 3. Criminal proceedings concerning the Deputy Minister for Civil Protection, Mr Nikolao Toska, and on 8-11-2017: 4. Criminal proceedings concerning the former Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs Mr Constantine Arvanitopoulos. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-08-S2-commons.u1234	With the agreement of the House at 21.00 noon the meeting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday 9 November 2017 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's work: (a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical debate; and (b) legislative work, only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "The harmonisation of Greek law with European Parliament and Council Directive 2003/88/EC of 4 November 2003 on certain aspects of the organization of working time" regarding the organization of the working time of doctors and dentists of the European Parliament. - I.D. Doctors' arrangements. and other provisions, in accordance with the supplementary agenda distributed.
