ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-01-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Good morning, everybody! Good month! I would ask Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos to announce the reports to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-01-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Before we begin the debate on the topical and urgent questions scheduled for today, I have the honour of announcing to the House the topical and urgent question report on Monday, 4 December 2017. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 472/28-11-2017 of the Radical Left Coalition MP Xanthi, Grigorios Stoyannis to the Finance Minister, on the subject: "Following the licensed number of jobs in the casino". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 401/24-11-2017 by MP Laconia of New Democracy Mr Athanasios Davakis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, entitled ‘Second student housing allowance application cycle’. 3. The question by number 397/23-11-2017 of the Vice-President of the Parliament and Deputy Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Finance on the subject: "The need to find equivalent measures for maintaining the VAT of the islands and abolishing the end of the night". 4. The Question No 408/24-11-2017 by the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Kasidiaris to the Minister of Finance, on "Population in Attica: Compensation and rehabilitation measures for our affected fellow citizens". 5. The Question No 395/22-11-2017 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of National Defence, entitled ‘The unacceptable and inappropriate attacks of naval soldiers to Chania on the evening of November 17, 2017’. 6. The question raised by Mr Ioannis Saridis, Member of the European Parliament, Mr Ioannis Saridis, Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: ‘The functioning of the Hellenic Open University (EPC)’. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 402/24-11-2017 by MP Magnesia of the New Democracy Mr Christos Boukokouros to the Minister of Transparency and Human Rights, on the subject: "Exterior Guards of the Special Youth Reservation Shop (KKN)". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 398/24-11-2017 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of the PASOK - DIMARKKKKKKENK KEGROGlou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: ‘Perhaps the remuneration of the PSY subsidiary should normally be paid.’ 3. The Question No 409/24-11-2017 by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Helen Zaroulia to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Financial costs of the attacks by para-state elements". 4. The question by number 474/28-11-2017 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Ioannis Delis, Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, about foreign-language school books that are on payment to all public high schools. 5. Question No 392/22-11-2017 by Independent MEP B'Athens Eftathios Panagoulis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Go back to Greece, has Mr Tsakalotos returned his money to foreign banks?" 6. Question No 101/17-10-2017 by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panagiotarou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: 'Ragda increase in measles in the country'. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Question No 661/24-10-10-2017 by Independent MEP Mr. Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Understood Compensatory Benefits Contracts - SAO". Ladies and gentlemen, we are starting the debate with the third under number 396/23-11-2017, a top-level question from the First Vice-President of the House and a Member of the Athens Parliament, Mr Marios Georgiadis, to the Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the equal visibility of all parties in the media. Mr. Vice President, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-01-S1-commons.u3	Mr President, Mr Ministers, good month and good morning to everyone. Minister, I suppose we all agree in this Chamber and in general in the context of parliamentary democracy that television media should allocate time, regardless of the parties, fair and adequate representation, in terms of presenting to their voters their positions and their actions in general through television panels. The evidence does not, however, agree with this, at least as far as it is concerned with the Centro Association about the unfair way we have been dealing with from the party, not only in recent times, but over the last thirty-five years since its establishment. I am not only referring to private, public and private frequencies, but also to public television, which in fact must ensure the pluralism of ideas and the fair distribution of television time. For example, statements by our President or our MPs happen not to be reproduced, while other parties, which are both dynamic to our own, always play. This phenomenon is not just the last period, because inequality in appearances existed in the pre-election period of September. On the basis of the ERC's report, namely page 155, which has the percentages in detail and which I will present to you in the minutes, we see that parties - such as the LAPD - which did not exist in January, were shown by an average of 5.7% from Greek Television and an average of 11.4%, while, respectively, our party with 1.8% in January had an average of 0.6%, a voice in the media. I put this document in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This has to do with other parties, of course, whose dynamics were smaller, but their percentage was higher. [[This is where the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President is ringing.]] In addition, I would like to say that many times - and I will close with this, so that I do not abuse time, and I thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance - from our party's press office we have made requests to go to a workshop where our President is to make a statement and we have received a negative answer, because there is no technical equipment available to enable us to serve, but most of all, they are invoking shortages of technical staff. I would like to ask you, Minister: what do you intend to do to defend the fair treatment of parties at the time they are broadcast from Greek TV, from ERT specifically, but also whether you can influence private channels? Secondly, does this apparent inadequate staffing of certain ERT departments and services ultimately prevent it from being consistent and fair in the distribution of television time to all parties? I'm waiting for your answer, so I can answer for a second in my turn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-01-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much Mr. Georgiadis. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-01-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Georgiadis, today you are giving me the opportunity to talk about public television, and I think that this is very important because it had been underestimated in our country and in a very violent way, the need for it to exist. Unfortunately, we had the pan-European originality of closing a public television and disseminating ideas of incompatibility, which I think were disguised by reality itself. I think that when we started this effort, the criticism that was launched against us was mainly a criticism of sustainability. In other words, some people were saying that ERT's reopening could not be economical. A few years later, ERT not only operates with four pan-Hellenic channels, with five pan-Hellenic radios and nineteen regional stations in the reopening of broadcasting, but also contributes to 55 million for this year in the state budget and 64 million per year. As defined by the National Broadcasting Council, Mr Georgiadis, television stations must ensure that political pluralism is respected, present the views of the political parties of the House and of the European Parliament. I think you will also agree with me that if there is a channel that keeps these balances, it is public broadcasting. Evidently, there are also constitutional provisions. There is, of course, also the patented possibility for journalists to assess what will emerge and what will not be shown. But ERT doesn't have that luxury. ERT must show and make the positions of political parties known to the world on a daily basis. I would, of course, like to submit to the Minutes, in relation to your specific question, the letter we received from the ERT, in view of your question, which shows exactly what the points of view of the Central Union's party are. I would like to stress that given the activity of your party and the fact that ERT covers all its activities in full, in the documents on private television stations, the rates of visibility are between 0.7% and 1.7%. The ERT has transmitted from January to November 2017 six speeches by Mr. Vassilis Leventis, his speeches at all the previous day's discussions at the political leaders and many events of your party, such as cutting the pie, meetings of the parliamentary group, gatherings of officials, press conference by Mr. Leventis at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition. In addition, with regard to the television time of the ERT politicians, the rate reached 4.3%, that is, over the percentage of the party in the elections, when the other channels played between 1.8%, 2.1%, 2.3% and 2.8%. I wouldn't want to make any denominations on the channels. It is obvious and I will recognise it on the basis of this question that there are deficiencies, which often are at the expense of adequate coverage and activities. But let me go back to my second language on how we should - and we will go ahead - deal with them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-01-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much the Minister. Please, Mr Georgiadis, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-01-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it makes sense to use only fragments in the last period, where numbers may show more upwards. After all, in the report on events, the percentages that I submitted to you were precisely about the pre-election period. In fact, I will mention - and it is in the paper that I have tabled - that the report acknowledges the injustice of the Centro Union with particular reference: 'The Centroon Union, despite the percentage that it had received during the January 2015 national elections, was given a lower visibility than the previous election period'. This is a priority for us, since television channels are undoubtedly the most important area for public information, let alone the ERT, which should reflect the Greek people's will. I will agree with you on what you say about private channels and the observed lack of pluralism. I said it in my protology. However, the fact that they're playing us much less than the ERT does not mean that our ERT plays us depending on the rest of the parties, which are the same dynamic as us, which proves the numbers I have submitted to you. Therefore, Minister, we are entitled to ask you why due attention has not been paid since September 2015, and now these two years, in order that all this has been taken into account, so that this injustice that we consider to have been eliminated from our side. With regard to the allocation of staff, for which you have not answered me and said that you will respond to your secondaryity, of course we understand that ERT is doing a public work of national importance and does not operate in the same way as other private channels. [[This is where the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President is ringing.]] For example, the option that has as a policy to be in the whole territory or even abroad is to be understood as correct, but also requires a greater number of journalists and technicians. And we, as the Central Association, are honestly saying that we want a public television, which is really to be in the service of the Greek people, since it is paid by the Greek people through taxation and through the salaries and incomes of the Greek people, which you are slashing every day. We want it to be well-equipped and adequately staffed, and we support it on our part, as in all the productive public, all the honest people who work there. Any initiative, which will come from you, or from any side, for the proper functioning of the ERT, will be from us not just welcome, but we will agree and be free of it. In this context, however, and in this context, if there is any thorough study, which has identified a lack of staff in specific sectors of journalists and technicians, why do you not take the appropriate steps to fill these gaps and not to delay citizens’ information? With the delay of this information, if some voters, like ours, of the Centro Association, who are listed close to the two thousand on the basis of the results of the September 2015 elections, do not find the information from the party, you understand that they will change the channel and probably look at another station to be informed about our party. I understand that the so-called'mobilisation' must be done, because we have mentioned too many times the 'global carriers', which have not yet been recorded or have not been subject and there are workers there who are paid by the Greek State. Unfortunately, these are not considered to be slow-wages from their own choice. It is likely from the government's choice, because it has not been in the process to censor them and exploit them. I understand that these employees cannot be transferred and moved to the ERT because there is no secretary, for example, to take a camera on his shoulder or write an article and be able to speak in front of the camera. He needs a skilled staff. So moving on to some of these actions is likely to be acceptable to the parliament and - why not - and from the state.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-01-S1-commons.u8	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-01-S1-commons.u9	From you may be 'no' and you can, if you want, document it differently, Mr Constantinople. After all, this would help certain sectors, which have reached 40% of unemployment, such as this sector of journalism. I do not know how you should assess ERT internally - it is a large number of surely - but we in our experience see that whenever we ask for something, apart from what you have said, it is planned. For example, they may have covered some speeches of the President, but they have covered the speeches of other Presidents, such as other conferences and the IGC, which they have covered for all parties. It is not an excuse to tell me as a result that you have covered the speeches of the President or the press conference at the IGC. It is a public television obligation to cover all political parties. For God's sake! But, from there on, if the ERT invokes a lack of staff and there is no staff in its structures, you must do something on your part, so that you can help all the parliamentary parties and us as a Central Association in terms of the injustice we see and give you figures. That is why, because the channels do not play us, I am also forced at the moment to take advantage of the seat, the step and the microphone I have from here to say that on Monday the President of the Central Association has a speech at the KARAVEL, which, of course, ERT will be there, even though it will not be able to transmit us live for other reasons that we understand. He'll play on relay. The President of the Centro Association will have a speech Monday at 19:30 in KARAVEL and you are all welcome. Thank you very much, Minister. I wish everyone a good month and thank you, Mr President, for the tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-01-S1-commons.u10	Thank you very much. It was important, so I let you talk. So there will be space transmission!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-01-S1-commons.u11	Of course, space and satellite transmission! Mr. Georgiadis, you realise that the search for wider consensus on politics around ERT will be a painful process because Mr. Constantinople has rushed from the "Democratic Association - New Agencies" to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-01-S1-commons.u12	As you wish, say it!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-01-S1-commons.u13	In any case, here we cannot lie and say that everything at the ERT was falsely made. We had an obligation to reopen it, respecting the right of people to work. Of course the ERT was not designed with the priorities it should have been designed and unfortunately it does not have the flexibility it should have. Unfortunately, there are very important specialities missing, and I would like to stress, for the Minutes too, that it is absolutely self-evident that there is an accredited author for all the parliamentary parties, namely the author, who is solely responsible for the activities of the parliamentary parties. I think that's self-evident. But it's not that easy. I will give you an example: Do you know how much a modern costs by means of a private company that ERT is forced to resort to, unfortunately, because there are no moderns in the Agency in an adequate number? It costs 1,960 euros, when the average wage costs of a model working at the ERT with a fixed-term contract are EUR 1,500. So you realise that there is a fundamental misunderstanding in both public and public debate. Replacement, replacement of external cooperation by workers in the organisation saves resources, is not waste. So it's something that we're planning. I come to speak to you in particular, because you too can imagine that this cost is escalating - if I say to you that there is a shortage - in speakers, in musicians, in moderns, in translators, in people who are involved in subtitling, in so-called character generators - when there is a picture, from below there is an explanation of what the viewer sees exactly at that time - not to tell you about electricians, about engineers and everything else. So I say to you that the gaps need to be covered, and that is why we have launched as a Ministry the procedures necessary for the conclusion of fixed-term employment contracts for two hundred and six people, as requested by the management of the agency. Of course, these contracts will be criticised by some who may be counter-population, but also by private television stations. I'll call the second people to be very careful, because ERT's not SKAY. ERT does not have the ability and luxury of intercepting a produced product and periphery as its own. Some others use the ERT's possibilities to serve its material to the Greek people, unfortunately many times free. I mean, then, we're going to move on. The Ministry has taken all necessary steps. First of all, it is a question of democracy and, secondly, of saving resources. In conclusion, I would like to reiterate these critical figures, these critical figures: ERT has EUR 180 million of the reward fee, EUR 55 million of them will be attributed to the state budget this year and EUR 64 million of them will be paid back next year. So it does not work at the expense of the Greek citizen. She responds to her role. There will always be room for improvement. I think that one aspect of the improvement margins has had the opportunity to discuss today. I am committed to keeping you and your party informed of the course of these initiatives. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-01-S1-commons.u14	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House - and the Minister is present, Mr Papapas - the Ministers for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, Economy and Development, National Defence, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Foreign, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Finance, Administrative Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, Deputy Ministers of Environment and Energy and Secretary of State for Economic Affairs deposited the 30-11-2017 draft law entitled 'Authorisation of Space Activities - Registration of Space Objects - Establishment of a Greek Space Agency and other provisions'. The draft law shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Also, New Democracy MP from Lefkada Prefecture Mr. Athanasios Kavadas asks for permission from a short-day absence from 2-12-2017 to 9-12-2017. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-01-S1-commons.u15	The House therefore approved the requested permission. SYRIZA's MP from the Cyclades Prefecture Mr. Antonios Syrigos seeks permission from a short-day absence from 6-12-2017 to 11-12-2017. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-01-S1-commons.u16	The House therefore approved the requested permission. We move to the second, with number 306/16-11-2017, a topical question by the MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAMAR Mr. Odyssea Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "Extending the second phase of the extension of a two-phase electricity distribution network Megalopolis Arcadia". Here, Mr Constantinople, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-01-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you for coming to answer, even though I have asked too many questions. This issue has been of concern to us since 21-10-2015. Then I asked my first question. We have discussed the issue at the time with my question to Mr Stathakis, who was then Minister. It concerns, as you well know, the second phase of the expansion of the electricity distribution network in Megalopolis. It was something that had begun in 2014. To be brief and not to waste our time, I would like to say that you answered me here in Parliament on 9-12-2016. You say, 'The project is important for the region'. You said that you were working with the municipal authority in order to achieve the maturity of the project and committed that at the beginning of 2017 the project will be included in the Programme "Transport Infrastructure, Environment and Sustainable Development 2014-2020", which provides funding for the implementation of energy saving actions through the Priority Axis 10. I'm not talking about the rest. I told you at the time that this was a very important project, because it is not just about reducing the cost of heating in Megalopolis. As you know now, the Government and PPC will sell PPC 3 and 4 and I hope there is no problem with that. This will provide opportunities for the post-Glingen era, namely, in terms of upgrading the agricultural sector, so that it can operate in compensatory terms in these years, which has supported regions such as Megalopolis and Florinas on electricity, but also environmental pollution, so that we can be absolutely honest. So we're one year after your answer and I've asked twice more questions. So I want to ask where you said what you said a year ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-01-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr. Constantinople. The Minister has the floor for his prototype for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-01-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Constantinople, I would like to agree with you - as you have said - with regard to the feasibility of the project. It is, indeed, a project that is extremely important for the Megalopolis region, which is, of course, related to all others, to climate change and to the transition to a low-carbon economy. But let me say that it has to do with a process, if you like, of strengthening those local societies which have lifted the burden of electricity production over the past few years, with all the consequences that this has for health and the local economy in these regions. The Megalopolis region, of course, is one of the most characteristic cases. From there on, in relation to this project, I should first of all like to say that I have answered it before. I'll repeat it now, so we can be clear. In 2014, there was indeed an inclusion of this project in the national part of the Public Investment Programme, but without the necessary appropriations being provided for its implementation. In this sense, there was no provision at that time for the implementation of the project. What we tried to do and we did - I will specifically refer to this - is to include this project in the ESDP. So what do we do? You're referring to it in your question too. The specific axis of the EMEA programme, "Transport, Environment and Sustainable Development" has a budget of EUR 25,000,000, and it concerns financing energy saving and transition projects in a low-polluting economy. Obviously, it is a budget, which is not enough for all the projects, which need to be implemented in this direction. What we have done is that we have incorporated the specific axis of this programme into the process of reviewing the ESDP programmes, which we are currently running with the European Commission. For this reason, we have tabled to the European Commission all the necessary information. What is now only pending as a last stage in the integration of the project is the approval by the competent services of the European Commission, so that the revision clause, which after the negotiation that we had meant EUR 1 000 000 million in addition to the ESDP programmes, but also the review process between the priorities of this programme, enable us to increase the budget for this axis. So, in addition to the two projects of the West Macedonia region, the great work of Florina and the work of Kozani, which have already been launched - one has already been integrated into the programme and the other will be included in the next few days - and the work of Megalopolis, as soon as this formal process of approving the review has been completed by the European Commission, will enable the project to be included in the ESDP programme, to have guaranteed, guaranteed funding so that it can be implemented in the next few days, of course, in cooperation with the local bodies and the municipality of Megalopolis, which will 'run' and all this process.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-01-S1-commons.u20	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-01-S1-commons.u21	Minister, we've been through this before. As you know, as far as the forward actions are concerned, you have drawn up and tabled a whole amendment for an intermediate body, which will prepare for actions. Something similar happened in 2014. It's potentially these, as I told you. We must go to the project because it is a little concerned and it is not of interest to have any small or large confrontation. I understand the following: First, as you quite rightly said, as I said, after 2015, which was answered by the EDP, this code - let me say it this way - was completed and the programme had no more money. He had absorbed them in other areas, such as Florina and Kosani. I understand now that there is a general negotiation to increase the amount through this specific clause. So this whole negotiation to proceed with the project will, I understand, be completed in the next semester - seven months.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-01-S1-commons.u22	I'll answer you later.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-01-S1-commons.u23	I want to tell you this and I really think you are aware of it, you are close, you know all this process and all these issues that you have said that the people of Megalopolis have been experiencing for many years. Besides, do not forget that in Megalopoli, they were living and working and working still too many Messinia residents as PPC officials. So you know all these issues. The main issue is when the project will be integrated and when the procedures will begin. We're now in 2017. We had asked a question earlier. Can you tell what time this procedure will be and will begin? I think this has an interest in me as well, but mainly for the people and people of Megalopolis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-01-S1-commons.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. Constantinople. Please, Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-01-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Constantinople, I would like to say this again: on our side, it is quite clear in terms of feasibility and priority. The two projects of western Macedonia, Florina and Kozani have now been launched, which, when we started working on this axis, were also of a greater degree of maturity. They had to move on, then. The next project that will go through this axis is the Megalopolis project. As you said, the effort made in the previous period, precisely because the resources of this axis have been exhausted, was to find additional resources. This process on our side has been completed. The approval is expected by the European Commission, as we have been informed by the competent services of the European Commission, until February 2018. This means that once this approval comes, it will be possible to proceed with the inclusion of the project in order to implement the project with guaranteed resources from the ESRB through the revision clause of this EUR 1 billion extra funding for the ESRB 2014-2020, which we have secured through cooperation with the services of the European Commission. From there on, allow me a more general comment, since we are discussing local projects, infrastructure projects. Since you too are a Member of a region that needs important infrastructure projects, I would like to say that in recent years there has been too much productive cooperation - as I think - with the European Investment Bank, which only brings real liquidity to the Greek economy in terms of real liquidity of more than two billion euros. The European Bank itself will announce it in the next few days. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] In this context - and this is something I am telling you about, so that the local authorities in your region, with whom you are of course speaking as a Member of the Arcadias - and within this initiative with the European Investment Bank there is also a new fund, which will enable the lending of local authorities, municipalities, infrastructures such as water networks, sewerage networks, waste management projects for which the municipalities will not be obliged to repay the loan, which will be borne by the Public Investment Programme. Therefore, it will be possible for the municipalities to implement projects, which will allow me to say that important local infrastructure projects should have been carried out for decades. Of course, these include the work of district heating in Megalopolis, which, through this process of reviewing the ESDP programme, will be integrated after the approval of the European Commission at the beginning of 2018 in the "COMPANY" programme and will be implemented properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-01-S1-commons.u26	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, in today's debate some timely questions will not be discussed because of the failure of the competent ministers. Therefore, the first question under number 471/28-11-2017, the first question of the First Circuit of the Thessaloniki Radical Left Coalition, Mr. Dimitrios Mardas, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Mydocultures: Significant losses of public revenues the inability of new permits and illegal activities", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister for the Environment and Energy, George Statakis, due to negotiations with the institutions. Also, the second with number 468/27-11-2017 a top-level question for the first cycle of the MP Arcadia of the Democratic Association of PASOK. - Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Financing from PPC S.A. the work of improving the street of Pournaria - Kyriou Bridge - Mygdalia, worth 500,000 euros, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr. George Statakis, due to negotiations with the institutions. Also, the third with number 253/7-11-2017 a topical question from the Independent MEP Mr.Nikolaos Michou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "PPC cuts off the current in the Karystia Evia", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister for the Environment and Energy Mr.Georgeos Statakis, due to negotiations with the institutions. The first under number 405/24-11-2017, a topical question for the second cycle of MP in Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the protection of property of up to EUR 300,000 from auctions, will not be discussed due to an impediment of the Minister of Economy and Development Mr.Mr. Cause: meeting with the institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to Parliament under Rule 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003: "Criminal Responsibility of Ministers", as in force on November 30, 2017, the criminal case for the former Minister of Development, Competitiveness, Infrastructure, Transport and Networks Mr. Konstantinos Hatzidakis. I also have the honour to inform the House that the Special Permanent Committee on Parliamentary Ethics is tabling its reports on the Office's requests for the authorisation of criminal prosecution against MPs. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-01-S1-commons.u27	With the agreement of the House at 10.50 p.m., the meeting on Monday, December 4th, 2017, at 17.30 p.m., on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: (a) a debate on topical questions; and (b) a debate on 8/6/1-11-2017 with nineteen Members of the New Democracy Parliament to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on 'Without strategic and active participation in the dialogue on the future of Europe'.
