ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 5-7-2017, the minutes of its PMT meeting on Wednesday 5 July 2017 were confirmed by the Bureau.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent question in the House on Friday 7 July 2017. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 1124/4-7-2017 topical question by MP Chania of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Evangelias (Valias) Vagonakis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the institutional protection of the region of Elafonisio Chania. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 1158/4-7-2017 by MP Florin of New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Antoniadis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Total and not partial relocation of the Achlada community of Florina". 3. The 1120/3-7-2017 topical question by MP II of the Democratic Integration PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdus to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the subject: 'Reconstitutionality and the new arrangement for television licences'. 4. The 1121/3-7-2017 topical question by Evia MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Michou to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "Ziraat Bank's action is intensified after the auctioning of Greek assets in Rhodes". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 1122/3-7-2017 topical question of the First Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: “Electricity cuts in Rhodes, in the middle of a heat and tourist season.” 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 1173/4-7-2017 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMARKK KEGROGOU to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on "Strengthening of radio stations to lift the immunity regime between radio stations in the country". 3. The 1105-27-2017 topical question by Congressman I Piraeus of the New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on "True problems in the Kythera ferry connection". 4. Under number 1076/20-6/2017, a topical question by Piraeus II of the Central Association of Central and Eastern Europe Mr.Theodoras Megalonikou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on "Direct risk of losing the tourist season for the ship "VITSENTZOS KORNAROS", which is a subsidised line". 5. Under number 1078/20-6/2017, a topical question by MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: “Action for interventions in justice by representatives of the Port Body”. 6. The Question No 1036/16-6/2017 by MP Achaias, New Democracy, Jasona Fotella, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Will a solution be finally given to the issue of 'AMIADIT'? 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question asked by MP Halkidiki of New Democracy Mr Georgios Vagios Vagiona to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: “The threat of a band for thousands of bakerys”. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The sixth question will be discussed under number 1117/30-6-2017, the first question of the Athens MP Mr.Georgios Amyras, the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Hours of museums and archaeological sites during the summer period". The timely question by my colleague will be answered by the Minister for Culture and Sport, Mr Lydia Connordos. Mr. Amyras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I wish my question had lost its topicality, given that I had tabled it two months ago on 8 May. I pointed out then that on the basis of the evidence that the Ministry of Culture itself had made public, we have too many museums and archaeological sites that do not work, and many places that operate in winter hours, but a summer ticket that is more expensive. So my question is about the very simple and tangible subject of how many museums and archaeological sites are open and operate today in the middle of the summer period, in the peak of the summer period, and how many of the museums and archaeological sites operate in winter hours instead of summer, but yet the visitor pays and buys the most expensive ticket in the summer to say so. I will come back, of course, then to tell me if there is any prediction and planning to get the online ticket into the museums and archaeological sites. In any case, I would simply say that the situation is disappointing. A country that visits thirty million tourists a year cannot have its museums and archaeological sites closed down because there are administrative difficulties with the known bureaucracy. I would say that your government and the Ministry of Culture lacks the nerve and the chump. Please tell us what I asked you to do. I repeat them, if necessary, for you to note them. How many museums and archaeological sites are closed? How many operate in consultation with local inventions of antiquities? What about the online ticket? Finally, when will they finally be opened on time to welcome the millions of visitors, Greeks and foreigners? That's all I wanted to ask for a start. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u3	Here, Mrs. Connordou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Amyras, the issue of keeping and working hours of archaeological sites is a matter that concerns us very seriously. We are at a very difficult time that, as you know, it is very difficult to hire staff to stay open all day. However, as you may know, they have been recruited by seasonal guards - about three hundred or three hundred - which has enabled us to keep them open from 8 a.m. until 8 a.m. It's an important differentiation. They're already in place. We know that there was no possibility in other places. There are some archaeological sites and some museums, which are remote or very visited and, unfortunately, we cannot keep them permanently open. However, with the help of the tax and after consultation, visitors can see these spaces. Also, with a great effort of tax and people working there, when a large group comes, archaeological sites remain open after consultation and after three noon to welcome a large group that wants to visit them. This is done by providing workers with no overtime. This is happening everywhere and I want to emphasise this because, as you know, Greece is full of archaeological sites and museums. Wherever you go to Greece - and this is not happening in other countries, I assure you - you see cared for archaeological sites and museums even on a remote island, even in an area that is not so often visited. So the areas that you say are still closed are places that are either in a repair phase, in a phase where work is done in or, as I said, they are very easily visited, and it makes it difficult to place a guard, because it will be deprived of some other archaeological sites, which have very much to visit. However, we have asked for four hundred other guards to be added to the thousands of three hundred. In addition, the two hundred permanent guards we requested have already been approved and will be sharing in the spaces.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Amyras, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, these archaeological sites are not very few and are closed. There are them, too. But here, on the basis of my own figures on May 8, 2017, there were a hundred nine museums and archaeological sites with the indication "Kalston", in seventy-two places, the visit was made after consultation with the locals, with the relevant inventions of antiquities and in three hundred hours a working hours while it should be summer, it is winter, that is, 08.00" to 15.00" at noon. But the ticket is the most expensive summer. We also have updates of the data two months after today. That's why I asked you to tell us how many of our museums are closed, how much they're running. The same evidence I want you to give us for the archaeological sites. The updated figures say - which I drew them out, to tell you the truth, from yesterday's question tabled by Mr Aygeakis - that the closed archaeological sites today due to a lack of staff are eighty. There's also the irony. The Nisyros Museum remains closed when the Prime Minister himself announced in 2016 that 200 permanent archaeologists would be hired for the needs of many museums. I mean, Minister, the good will of the staff, of the archbishops, etc. is not enough to keep the space open. A plan needs to be drawn up here. What would I suggest. I'd suggest we see how the outsiders do it, but how the insides do it, and I become very specific. There is a partnership of individuals with museums abroad. They receive sponsorships, make cultural programs of a decade, own own resources, and do not charge the public budget for their organization and the promotion of their exhibits. Let them out, because where you hear from the government a private partnership, I think you're taking security distances poorly in my view. We should see what is happening in Nemea, for example. But let Nemea go too. I will give you, for example, the 'DIZOMA', which is a shocking movement of citizens. You know her very well, of course, and you know that move. They have emerged, reconstructed, reconstructed in their ancient bases, stones and lanes, tens of ancient theaters by mobilizing, of course, volunteers and private individuals. I, Minister, am interested in learning today, as I have told you, how much of our museums are closed and when will they open up and I would like you to say this: is there a plan? Is there a vision? I don't want to use this word, of course, - you see I'm cheating - because it's become a cliché, it has become a candy that anyone uses it. These museums, these nuclei, these dynamism cells, local excellence, financial support for many regions, which cannot be supported otherwise, because they are remote from the region and production power, they have superpowers in front of them and within them, which are culture, are museums, they are archaeological sites. That's what I wanted to ask you. I'd say you'd be bold again. See how they do it in England, how they do it in France. See how the museums there collide with the private sector. Here we are, having closed museums, or having museums open or semi-closed with closed sales in or out. You can't get a bottle of water. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u7	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. I do not think we can compare ourselves to countries where there are not so many archaeological sites and museums. There is a very serious issue in what you mentioned, in cooperation with private individuals, regarding the expertise and the great responsibility of keeping archaeological sites and museums with archaeological treasures. So it wants very much attention to be given to private storage of these spaces. We believe that at the moment, it is right in the hands of the guards who have this specialty, that they have this responsibility and that knowledge all these years. On the subject of 'DISCOME'. As you know very well, it does not do the same work in archaeological sites or save them. DIAZOMA helps, mobilizes, sensitizes citizens, raises the money to mature the studies and is given to the Ministry of Culture. The Ministry of Culture carries out the restorations, maintenances, the Ministry of Culture is responsible. We should therefore not be confused that a body, which is very important, such as the 'DIZOMA', can intervene directly in the archaeological sites. This can't be done. At the moment we are trying, with the means we have, to keep them open. There are eighty-five open spaces that are currently in operation. The painting you've got since April. Some spaces have already been opened, such as Eupalini, which is mentioned in a way that has not yet been opened. Right now, I can tell you that within the first ten days he opened, he had seven hundred visitors. This is very important and indicative of the very systematic effort made. Today and tomorrow, all the leaders of all Greece, precisely so that we can coordinate and put together the problems and the solutions, so that we can help those responsible and archaeological sites to operate as far as possible, within the - I repeat - very difficult conditions and at the current juncture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Minister. We enter the first question under number 5243-27-2017 of the Member of the Radical Left Coalition, Aristides Baltas, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the "Social Aid Fund of the Ministry of Culture". Here, Mr Balta, you have the reason to develop the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, you know these SYRIZA MP questions to the SYRIZA ministers are friendly and rewarding. They want to gather evidence, locate urgent situations that may have escaped from the respective Minister, in order to get things better for everyone. As you also know, today is a timely question for a written question which had been tabled by twenty-nine SYRIZA Members for some time now, when all the information we have gathered in relation to the Solidarity Fund is specifically analysed. I would remind you very quickly that the Solidarity Fund has been an amazing formula, an incredible invention, already in 2002, of the Venizelos Ministry. This is one thing that has no legal personality, is not even a association of people with members, it has no general assembly whose administration is accountable, it is not a union, it is nothing. And it's a false copy because it's not a Solidarity Fund, but a place where the Ministry of Culture's money goes, public money to some workers. This money is not a second surprising point - it is not so per year. It is a percentage - listen to the revenue from the Archaeological Resources Fund, where as much increases as the Ministry's grant to the Fund increases. This on its own is a scandal. During the years during which, only during the crisis, the amounts taken by the Solidarity Fund were about 13 million. And, indeed, there is a procedure of which, through the Solidarity Fund, money goes to the Pan-Hellenic Federation of Workers of the Ministry of Culture, which is also illegal. In addition, the Solidarity Fund has nothing to do with mutual assistance. It has a children's station, which, according to criteria that are almost opaque, takes some children into a building of the Ministry of Culture. The costs per child in this kind of child station are at least five times as high as the average of public nurseries. Well, this whole thing has an administration, which is appointed by the Minister, but to change, it wants the agreement of this administration. That's another insanity. And as long as I was at the Ministry, we'd started the investigation that's hard enough to find all this. So the question at the moment is where we are in relation to this situation. I'm going to say a few more things.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u11	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u12	The Solidarity Fund - at least forty years I have been in the area, and we have some picture and some information - was indeed an entirely opaque structure, as you said, an area that is opaque, but which one cannot say does not express the large number of workers in the Ministry of Culture. However, the procedures were unclear. For example, I would like to mention some of the figures that the Directorate-General for Culture has given us. The following amounts have been paid from the Special Account of the Ministry of Culture in 2002: EUR 306,474. In 2004, EUR 898,326. In 2006, 7,300,000 euros. In 2007, 11,360,000 euros. In 2008, 11,282,000 euros. These figures indicate that there was a very large opacity in how and why the money was being given in previous years. Indeed, a management check has already been launched, which has been interrupted for reasons we do not know. I wasn't there. It is now simply continuing and will be completed, according to our information, in November 2017. Already at the moment, the grant of the Solidarity Fund has been greatly reduced. Already last year with your own department with a reserve which was then 900,000, according to the information we have, 700,000 were granted as a grant. This year, after June when a grant of 350,000 was granted, the reserve has reached 72,000. Therefore, the grant has already been greatly reduced and has nothing to do with the previous waste and, at the moment, the subsidy is lower with a much smaller reserve. Also, the next amount to be allocated will be allocated not on the basis of the percentage that will not apply, because it was really wrong, but on the basis of the actual operational needs of the Baby Solidarity Fund, the expenditure on child camps - it is around five hundred children, the day-care station is 100 children - and the other operational needs of the Solidarity Fund. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] The amount paid for each child shall be calculated according to the invoice issued by the Ministry of Labour. This figure, of course, is a very big mistake, because it is linked to the revenues of the EDF and not to the actual needs of the Fund, especially now that the revenues of the EDF from the increase in tourism are projected to be increased and can be offered to the real needs of the Ministry. Therefore, it is a great mistake of the previous governments which were subsidising according to a percentage and which ended up with the sums that I have told you. I'll tell the rest of it in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u13	Mr Balta, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u14	It's not exactly how much grant this will get. There's a law laying down this grant. This law cannot stand by anything at any level, and so it needs to be cleared up - I would call it this way - of the whole plight of the solidarity fund, with one essential condition: to save the child station and to save the jobs of the workers in it. There's a way for that. The daycare station can go to the Ministry because there's this process. From there on, this monstrous motif is to be abolished, because it is a smuggling place - not to say anything worse - public money at all levels. His administration, for example, manages money of 2 million a year, according to the previous one, without any kind of accountability, without any kind of accountability, without anything, I repeat public money, and without any sense of mutual assistance, as I have said. Only money is provided from the Ministry to this Fund. I also wanted to ask the following question. Shortly before leaving the Ministry, I had asked for the President of the Fund to be rescinded, because he was there almost illegally. In the months in which they took place, has she been returning to the Ministry, or has she been illegally imprisoned since then? There is an entire grid of such issues, and if they are not dealt with with the systematicity that is required, the issue is an excellent shame for the whole, say, the course of culture, its funding and where the resources of culture go. I would like to present for the minutes the question of the twenty-nine Members of SYRIZA, to be in the file.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr. Balta. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u16	You referred quite rightly to the nursery station, which, according to the new organization of the Ministry of Culture and Sport, is already completed and submitted, is planned to join the Ministry of Culture and no longer to come under the Solidarity Fund. With regard to 'whereabouts', the place is submitted as required. As long as it is in the situation of the Asset Statement Control Committee it is checked in accordance with the provisions of Law 3213/2003, including the list of persons liable for the Solidarity Fund of the Ministry of Culture. The question of the legal status of the Solidarity Fund is being investigated in order to improve its functioning on the basis of rules and transparency. The issue you raised about the President of the Solidarity Fund is being investigated. The decision to revoke his work is well known. Indeed, it has not been presented in its work and this issue is being investigated and the relevant decision will be taken. However, we must wait for the conclusion of the management check carried out by the General Accounting Office of the State.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Connordos. We continue with the sixth under the number 1030/15-6-2017 topical question of the second Athens MP, Athanasios Papachristopoulos, on the subject of "Help at Home". The Minister of Interior will answer Mr. Panagiotis Skourletis. Mr Papachristopoulos, you have the floor to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. I know that a while ago, Minister, you were asked a similar question. I believe that we need to raise this issue very well, because I know very well what you have done and what you have done in legal proceedings. You didn't do a second grade. I know very well what you did with the standard qualifications, where you also helped. We also have your commitment that in the private sector of this kind the activity will never go and I really consider it positive. But I want to tell you the following. The number of hundred thousand is rather fictional. It's much more. It's very important. "Help at home" has lived through it in Denmark and the Netherlands forty years ago. Greece came in 2002, a little late. But he's here. I'd like to know this. You have recently promoted legislation concerning cleanliness workers. My question is whether it is all about three and a half thousand people, some of whom - not all - are working over twelve - thirteen years with renewed contracts. I have read a statement from you recently that at least one to four cleansing workers or one to five are not concerned with them. I would therefore like clarifications. Today, too, they have a strike mobilization. I think we should respect that. It's their inalienable right. I would like to know more specifically what exactly these people include in this House what we have recently voted on. What are you going to do with these three and a half thousand people? I think it is a social issue, very strong, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u19	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Papachristopoulos, your question really proves to be extremely timely and because of today's twenty-fourth-fourth strike of workers in this programme. I would like to say quite frankly that I consider the request of these people who thus choose today to claim self-evident. In other words, it cannot be said that people who, as you have said, are up to 15 years old and are working in the same jobs as ever-new contracts are in a hostage and job insecurity situation. It is a reality which we owe as a state to recognise. We are committed as a Ministry - and we are already moving in this direction - to try to find a solution that is compatible with both the Constitution and the European directives. This is the legal dimension of the matter. As the Prime Minister said, on his last visit to the Interior Ministry, in the year, I am immediately imagining after summer holidays, in the autumn, that we should be able to present this initiative, this provision which does not only concern the workers concerned. It also concerns thousands of other contractors who work in the public sector, in the wider public sector, in the LAGs, under the same regime. So I think it is social law, and we must answer it. I believe, however, that it is highly hypocritical - if you like - that of the Officerial Representation, but also of the PASOK, before and as a government, who have created this hostage regime. They come today and are in favour of demands and at the same time, but when we go to find a solution, they talk about armies of new party appointments. Who? People who work eight, ten, twelve, fifteen years in the same position? Is this the party army of SYRIZA - ANEL? There is, however, also the political dimension of the matter. One side we talked about now. There's another one because you know that these powers are not working on their own. These forces power those mass media that are in an orderly service to fight the government, take it from the troika and the institutions and ask us: What will happen? Are you violating rule 1 to 4? And here is a really open problem, because the solution we are going to seek, apart from being legally compatible with the Constitution and with the European directives, must also overcome the intention of the committee, in order to convince - as is right and genuinely clear - that this is not a new recruitment burdening the state budget, but a fair restoration to the real employment relationship of these workers. We must therefore - and in this direction we are moving - legally and legally the regulation that we want, but also respond to this specific'serious alliance' of lenders - the New Democracy and the Mass Information Instrument, who have the only purpose they have is in any way to undermine the current government. It is - and I conclude with this - a programme that is innovative, that meets real social needs, that is also the responsibility of the Ministry of Labour. There has already been an extension of this programme, which is now being financed by national resources. I believe that this battle must be given as many political forces as possible, social forces, because in any case it is fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u21	Mr. Papachristopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Honestly, Minister, I think you're covering for me more than I expected. Because my district is Athens II, I want to tell you this, there are heroic volunteers and one of them is Mrs. Zoga. I'm talking to you with names, because I'm saying something good to her, I'm not saying anything bad. For example, he is a man obese in Callithea who cannot move, is alone and only the neighbors and some volunteers are interested. Now we've been talking about it outside. So I think that that's where you need to coordinate, if not force the municipalities to be activated. I don't mess with a mayor, but I'm telling you it's an explosive social problem of helpless people, people who after the crisis their people left. I'm not talking about elderly people, serious illnesses, that's all there were. There's this new category of people who don't have a fate in the sun. That is why I wanted to raise this question. And I do not hide from you that - it is none of your business, but I have lived with it in Denmark and the Netherlands - there are students - who are volunteers, mainly in nursery schools, in medicine, where they were taking out a part-time subsidized government to provide help at home. It is something that is none of your business, but I will propose it to Mrs Fotio and I believe that I will find prosperous ears to tie, to press this story harder. Your answer to me has satisfied me. I know that you are alert, and thank you, because this is really a matter of time and it is one of what we should not leave it in their luck. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u23	We're now entering the number... Minister, excuse me. You have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u24	I understand, Mr President, that you may agree with the content of the first reading, but I would like to add a few things.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u25	No, it's not a matter of disagreement or agreement. I have an opinion, but I cannot express it from here. If I go down, I'll be able to express it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u26	I'm kidding.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u27	It's just that we're late to start with time pushing us. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u28	Mr Papachristopoulos, I would like to add, because you have also raised a question in your first speech about the relationship between the regulation we are preparing for these people and the one we voted on last week and it concerns the workers with cleanliness in the municipalities. It's two different cases, because cleaning workers work on payroll services, they have their own features. These services are paid by the citizens, they are outside the state budget or the budgets of the municipalities, and that is why they do not fall within the limits of 1 to 4 this year for the rule of recruitment to the public. This regulation has, in fact, tried to respond to the problem created by the Court of Auditors' decision, which sent these six thousand employees to unemployment, while at the same time starting for the first time - for the first time and we underline this - since 2010 permanently stable jobs, through the tender that will be supervising, as should the AACC in the area of cleanliness. Nevertheless, there are forces at this time trying to cancel this arrangement. Here too, on the occasion of your question, I want to be quite clear and honest. Self-government, as defined by the Constitution and its role, by the self-government that recognizes it, must assume its responsibilities. It cannot, at a difficult time, which has clearly had consequences, first of all, in society, in health, in tourism, in towns, etc., for various forces, inspired by the logic of the market, now try not to implement this regulation and lead this service to private companies. Of course, these forces have full and complete support for the Chief of Officerial Representation, who also in his recent interview with "STAR" said that "yes, we want to reduce the public." In fact, - we must keep saying this - whereas this year's rule is 1 to 4 and 1 to 3 of the year in public recruitment, Mr Mitsotakis asked for us to go back to 1 to 5 last year. I mean, he wants to reduce people who work in the public sector, he wants us to get laid off again. He wants to repeat the practice he was inspired by the dismissal of school guards, the Municipal Police. He's incorrigible. So this is the situation, these are the obstacles, that is our logic and, as I said before, I think that we need to move on this road. It's a deeply social issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We continue with our second question under number 1157/4-7-2017, on 'What is the government's plan to restructure Greece?' The Deputy Minister for Rural Development and Food will answer Mr. Vassiliou. Mr. Kasapidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the issue I bring to you today is perhaps one of the main pillars of the rural economy. The structural, fiscal, insurance, along with cooperative and agricultural education are considered to be the main priorities for the development of agricultural policy, a national strategy in the agricultural sector, which, unfortunately, seems to have been the case to date, has not been carried out entirely, except in fragmentary and in very few cases, over time. As far as the days and actions of the present government are concerned, we all see, we all understand, and that the producers express their anxiety with the tax and insurance, which have literally been kneeled by the dismantling of the already broken cooperative movement. We see nothing moving towards agricultural education and the transfer of know-how in the field of production, much more on the question of structural structures, where there are many structural, chronic problems, such as the small and luxurious lot, which does not allow sustainable farms to be created and then developed. These problems have been solved by European countries since 1960. For example, the French have answered the question of how we should manage the territories of those who cannot exercise agriculture or those who do not have the scope to have viable farms and who have found the solution. We now have a developed agriculture not only in that country, but also in many other European countries. In the context of the dialogue or movement initiated by the Prime Minister from my region next week for the plan for productive reconstruction, which is part of the productive reconstruction in the primary sector, which is the basis of which is the emancipatory, the question is: What is your plan for the solution of the European structural problem and how is this model that you want to create in the agricultural sector part of the government's plan for productive reconstruction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr. Kasapidis. Mr. Red, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u32	Your Honor, I am really pleased about your question. Although I do not use a written text, you will at least allow me to use something to inform you and inform the Greek people. As you are well aware, the main structural problems of Greek agriculture refer to the small size, as you quite rightly say, of agricultural land in relation to the size of the labour force, the fragmented property, the multi-faceted property regime, the underemployment and the lack of quality projects. A key strategy of the Ministry of Rural Development to solve these problems is the development of the appropriate infrastructure network to contribute to accessibility, to the improvement of the use of natural resources, to the creation of an environment to promote the development of productive processes and the agri-food system. How does the Ministry of Rural Development now implement the improvement projects throughout the territory? They shall be implemented under the Public Investment Programme. In particular, the collective irrigation infrastructure, the improvement of projects, is the responsibility of the management of land improvements, soil resources and fertilisers. The study and construction of offshore improvements first of all ensures a reduction in production costs in agriculture and an increase in the value added of products produced. As far as the financial instruments are concerned now for the implementation of this specific strategy by the Ministry of Rural Development, I will come to my dentine to refer to the plan for productive reconstruction in the primary sector at all times. Regarding the financial instruments, I would like to say: I am telling you that the 2014-2020 Programme was designed with this specific objective. In the context of the above, measure 4, sub-measure 4.3.1, entitled ‘End improvements infrastructure’, finances European-level projects and promotes the implementation of projects in areas with natural handicaps. In this direction, the new Rural Development Programme integrates the basic policy principles for rural development, namely economic and environmental sustainability, the promotion of the knowledge society as a building block of innovative entrepreneurship, extroversion, increasing and maintaining employment in rural areas and social cohesion. In particular, the main operational priorities of the strategy of the Rural Development Programme shall be as follows: Firstly, strengthening competitiveness. Secondly, to encourage private investment aimed at modernising farms. In my dentistry, I shall refer specifically to the government's plan for productive reconstruction in the primary sector.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Kasapidis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u34	Minister, I recognise your anxiety and interest in the primary sector - you are also elected in an extremely rural area, the Larissa Law - but your answer does not satisfy me with the basic question I raised to you. The structured pattern consists, as you have described, of the small, fragmented lot, the multitude of ownership, the special relief - if you like - of the country, but in the policies that have so far been implemented to resolve it, none of it has been effective. Some are completely fragmented. For example, the most recent of your Government is that you are trying to discourage pensioners with the 'Katrugalos', if they have agricultural income and pensions to reduce their pension by 60%, and that is what you refer to after 2025. But it is totally fragmentary and no basis for resolving this chronic structural problem. And to be more specific: If we have in a village that has ten thousand acres of 50 acres that IAEA declares, they appear as farmers and they are owners of agricultural land, the vast majority of them are not viable on market terms and try to smuggle into any false statement and anything else to pull the nose out of the water. So no government has taken any steps to resolve this, because it is about the property of the land, which is a parameter, or - if you like - and a model of organising all these small owners in larger groups of producers, but with incentives or anti-incentives - if you want - to put pressure on some sort of way for their own good to reduce operating costs, based on agricultural land. So, because it refers to the territory, which is a key factor of production together with capital and work, no government has so far captured it. The question, then, is: Now that the Prime Minister comes to Western Macedonia, Kozani, has something to say in this part about restructuring, reconstruction in the agricultural sector that catches the bull from the horns, put the foundation stone on which the model of agriculture will be built? So what is the model, Minister, for the next five, ten years? What is the farmer's model, which you want to create, with which policies, if they are implemented to date, which unfortunately have to date - do you also - the world expresses negative remarks about the policies already pursued so far, and much more with the lack of policy on the part of the agricultural land, the structure of land, in addition to the quality projects that you have said, which are part of the structural structure? In order to make land improvements, for example, a resurrect must be done. And there's almost nothing happened over the years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u35	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u36	In fact, I have told you in the second instance that I will answer the substance of the question. I had to respond to some technical issues of improvement and take the opportunity to say because your question really touches on the substance of the problem, you know what it is. You are worthy of congratulations for your attitude, for the feta, for the farmers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u37	And to you personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u38	I take the opportunity from a series to your question, which says - if I recall - characteristics, that unfortunately in our country until now the appropriate policies have not been implemented to resolve the problem mentioned above. Mr Kasapidis, like many of our fellow citizens, farmers, all these years have lived the virtual reality. Let me just tell you. You're a farmer, I'm a lawyer. We can also be farmers. However, farmers cannot be lawyers or farmers. We must: Firstly, this profession must be certified and guaranteed. He who deals with the earth really deals with the earth. Of the hundreds, the eighty face Greek agriculture as a second, third, fourth, fifth income and do well. However, from there on to be competitive - you mentioned France's reasoning - we must protect this profession, certify it. Therefore, the definition of a professional farmer should be the subject of a public dialogue with farmers themselves and supported. Already with L.4347/2016 there are some tax incentives for the professional farmer. Secondly, our position on the new CAP. What's our position? Already the Ministry of Agriculture two months ago invited farmers to a public debate to reconcile the proposal on the new common agricultural policy. Connected to production or not? Because, as the Ministry of Rural Development, we believe that it is not just the management of the daily problems of Greek agriculture. It must and must be the establishment of objectives for productive reconstruction. We must finally tell the farmers the truth: not in false subsidies, as you said, not in sloppy things. A new farmer model, a farmer businessman. New model of cooperation with producer groups. You said the cooperative movement didn't go that well. I'd say it went bad. Therefore, farmers themselves, along with the political parties, must be able to reconcile the definition of a farmer, because that is the only way that this profession can be competitive. Report tax-insurance. Mr Kasapidis, I believe that the professional farmer must - and I will insist on this, because they are some who disagree and take the cost of what I say - be protected, have to be preceded. We need this profession finally to be certified, we need to know. As you quite rightly said in the question, in France, those who leave agriculture and do not rent them or buy them in any other way have no reason to hold them. Therefore, it is only in this way that we can come to the new model of productive reconstruction with the farmer certified and with the farmer, I repeat, trained. The farmer has never been trained to date, and this is a responsibility - I am not currently opening up a micro-participatory issue - of all governments so far. No one has ever told farmers how and how to train. Produced something is not the thing, but producing a good and certified product. And how are you gonna produce it? Only by training the farmer as a professional. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u39	We continue with the fifth under number 1115/29-6-2017 a topical question by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Comparison of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odyssea Konstantinopoulos to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Serious threat to Arcadia's crops or chestnut wasp". Mr Constantinople has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I expected the Minister to be here today, because ten to fifteen days ago we had talked about the issues relating to Arcadia and the disasters. Then he promised that within 10 days the auditors of the ELGA would go. I hope you'll pass on to him that the ELGA auditors have not gone yet. But let's go now to our point, because I think you've been involved at some point with the wasp and this whole process. Let's say two things. It's not only threatening Arcadia the chestnut wasp, it's threatening all of Greece. It is a topic that started in 2014 in Pieria. In fact, will you allow me, why is it important to see his treatment? For in recent years the rise in exports and production of chestnut has increased and today exceeds eighteen thousand tons. To date, and I think Mr Tsironis has made a commitment to you, then you were not a minister, in his letter, to the effect that he will be able - because it is the only way to deal with it - there is no chemical pesticide - to find and create the parasite. And Mr. Chironis was committed to you that he will immediately give 1.4 million. I read here on 8-6-2017, if I'm not mistaken, "Followed to Mr. Vassilis Kokalis" - you mean - "that he evaluated brown crops as very important, that the relevant Ministerial Decision will be adopted in the next few weeks". It's Article 24, I'll testify for the Minutes. In the meantime, contacts with "ELGO - DIMITRA" and anything else. I want to ask you in the first place, Minister, to date? Has this decision been made? What has the Ministry done on this matter, which you sent a letter to the Minister - you were probably still a Member of Parliament. Where exactly are we in this process for a matter that is not just Arcadia, but is it all over Greece? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u41	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u42	Your Honor, I'll tell you what the Ministry has done. First of all, the chestnut wasp appeared in 2014. Although it is not a matter of agronomics, this insect is considered an extremely serious enemy and leads to a dramatic reduction in the production of chestnut. It is extremely difficult to deal with because of insect biology. Unfortunately, there were no specific plant protection products in 2014. The ELGA regulation does not provide for compensation for damage to the chestnut wedge because it provides for flooding, heat, etc. It doesn't appear. Unfortunately, it is not even the case that the programme of financial aid is known to us. What has the Ministry done? And you are not talking about the decision, but about funding for fighting the chestnut wedge. It drew up a proposal immediately - a study on the treatment, entitled 'Biological control of chestnut wedge'. I also welcome the fact that this insect was first detected in the Pieria Prefecture and then spread to other prefectures, including Arcadia. Already on 23-6-2017, the proposal, which is also environmentally friendly, has been signed because it does not use chemicals, has been submitted for funding at the HYPEKA Green Fund and was approved on 23-6-2017. He's at your disposal. I'm filing it in the Minutes. I'll tell the rest of it in my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u44	Minister, you are telling me that this procedure has been adopted. I think that this money has been disbursed to make the antiparasit's preparation, if I understand it correctly. That's the money you found. At the same time, we have an event - and I do not know if you have any contact with the regions, because I think you need to work together - where we are the Regional Director a while ago, on 17 June 2017, announces that the cost of dealing with the chestnut wasp will be borne by the Peloponnese Region in order to avoid timely bureaucratic procedures. I don't know if you're in cooperation, but I want you to tell me, 'cause this is where people are listening, and we're gonna have to see what's going on. You say that the program was approved on 23-6-2017. I do not know how much money it is, I would like you to tell us and what distribution you have made throughout Greece in this process. When will it be activated? That is the main issue. After the money has been approved, when will the whole process be activated, so that people can deal with this big problem? I'm afraid they lost their crops this year, lost their production, to be honest, and now we're going for next year. At least, can you give us a timetable for when this process you have said as Ministry will begin to be implemented in order to be able to deal with the problem? I tell you this because the chestnut concerns exports, it concerns the primary sector, etc. Let me just tell you that in 2012 the chestnut had a price of 1,5 euros and today it has doubled, it has reached 3,80 euros. It means that these people could, as a primary sector, face all the difficulties and even a very large proportion of exports became in countries like Italy and gave multiple benefits to the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u45	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u46	The documents which I am presenting to you demonstrate the importance of the services of the Ministry of Rural Development and the close care to the Ministry of the Environment. The services state: ‘Please commit to the approval of this programme as soon as possible’. I would remind you that the chestnut wedge appeared in 2014 and since the 2016 documents show the pressure of the services of the Ministry of Rural Development to the Ministry of the Environment in order to be approved. Financing approved on 23-6-2017, ten days ago. This funding, Mr. Kostantinopoulos, includes six counties. Pieria, Halkidiki, Drama, Thessaloniki, Fthiotida and Evrytania. Unfortunately, the bug was found in at least four other prefectures, Arcadia, Kosani, Kavala, Evia. That is why a supplementary proposal was drawn up which includes all of Greece in order to deal with the spread of the chestnut wedge in a timely and effective manner. In particular, the Plant Production Protection Department is already preparing a technical report on the preparation of an insect control programme, implemented from the next growing season in the chestnuts of Arcadia, Evia, Kavala and Larissa. This programme will be financed by the Agricultural and Cattle Fund. Therefore, 2014 shows the insect wasps of Kastania. We have in 2016 a continuing mailing all over Greece from the Ministry of Rural Development to the Ministry of the Environment. It was first approved in six counties and continues in the rest of Greece for the next growing season.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The twelfth will now be discussed under number 1106-27-2017, a topical question for the second question by the MP of Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the delays of the organised tactics programme in the Region of Crete. Mr. Synthrakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u48	Minister, despite all the reassuring statements made by the Government and the Region of Crete that the homicide program is progressing normally, the reality is quite different. Farmers are concerned, they are not satisfied with these reassuring statements, the torch is inexhaustible after the heat, due to the sharp drop in temperature. We say that the murder case is serious, because due to the inefficiency of the tactical programme over the past few years, its underfunding, its delays in its implementation and many other factors, annual losses total up to EUR 24 million. Although the programme is alleged to have started, there are delays in the taking up of contractors, trapping, spraying, due to the delay in trapping, the competition for medicines, the lack of scientific staff, the supervision of the programme. You know that the number of directors and trappers has been dramatically reduced. There are no people who can control the forest populations everywhere and guide the trappers, and with the provision for the placement of the counties at the end of July with the beginning of August, the scientific and the validity of the sprays that have been carried out so far is seriously questioned. Let me tell you that in 2008 they were dealing with the homicide of about ten thousand people. In 2014, seven hundred people. That's a 93% drop. Now, give us a number, if you know, how many people are dealing with the homicide we're talking about today? Let's see how optimistic the things the government tells us are. In connection with the funding of the program, this is where the mocking goes, and I'm telling you why? The budget for the homicide in Crete for thirty-four million olive trees and an average annual output of twenty thousand tonnes is only 13.60,000 million for the three years 2017-2019, on the basis of the declaration, on the pretext that the regions bear - we doubt whether this money is actually given - and the pretext that there are spray reserves. So we ask you, Minister: Firstly, what measures will you take to ensure uniform pan-Hellenic, integrated scientific sound and safe implementation of the tactical programme, under the responsibility of the Ministry of Rural Development? Secondly, what measures will you take to ensure the necessary funds for the homicide and abolish the 2% levy? Thirdly, what measures will you take to obtain immediately from the Ministry of Rural Development and Food for all the cycles of spray with the responsibility of the Region of Crete to proceed with the sprays in all areas? Fourthly, what measures will you take to immediately recruit all the necessary staff permanent and seasonal scientific staff and, finally, what measures will you take to provide compensation from ELGA to 100% of the damage caused by damages caused by the fruit from the torch? Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u49	Mr. Red, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u50	Mr. Synthyriakis, this is a very important issue that concerns all of Greece, most of all Crete. I hope, of course, that it is clear - and it will be clear - that the next topical question, if tabled, is not the responsibility of the Ministry of Rural Development. First of all, I would like to make it clear to you that with Law 3852/2010, the so-called 'Kallikrati', the responsibility for implementing the murder programmes lies with the regions. The Ministry of Rural Development shall only have supervision, technical guidance and evaluation of the results. I do not think that there is any provision at all, but none at all, for the budget to be allocated to each region. I'm coming to Crete now. In this context, the relevant appropriations are included in central own resources and are assigned annually to the regions. The appropriations this year totalled EUR 19 million. EUR 2.153,000 has been allocated to Crete for the homicide. Because you said they were concerned and it makes sense to worry, I read to you that the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Rural Development recently visited Crete precisely for the tacosy. I am reading the statements, not from Mr Antonoglou, but from the periphery of Crete: I think that this cooperation may be the last thing these problems have been going on this year. The world must not be concerned, the homicide will be done normally despite the problems that have existed, and from the new year, we hope that all the issues will be resolved, always with the good cooperation we have with the Ministry of Rural Development. In conclusion, 90% is responsible for the implementation of the programme by each region for the budget. However, this year, in order for it to be done in good time, the tender has been made and is at the stage of the pre-contractual audit at the Court of Auditors, which is the responsibility of the Ministry of Rural Development.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u52	Minister, we have asked you some questions. You have preferred the answer to these questions and your wish is that 'you know, leave the Ministry of Rural Development and go to the regions'. The question is not whether he'll leave one ministry to go to another ministry, throw out of his hump at the Ministry of Development and take it to another ministry. And to see that the problem of tacosy is not new and cannot be confined to a change in responsibility, we must say that there are years of underfinancing from 2009 until now and this funding has been tripled. We also have the absence of a single pan-Hellenic and integrated scientific implementation of the homicide programme and a lack of drugs. Here, the Region of Crete borrows medicines from other regional units, from Elias, from Attica, from Magnesia. The Regional Unit of Heraklion, which has most olive trees, is borrowed by Rethymnon and Chania. However, the problem is not solved by emblematic interventions. Is it also the 2% raisin, which is particularly burdened by poor oil producers, will you abolish it? Unfortunately, it shows the intention of your own government, like previous governments, to turn the law into a producer's individual case. That's where the thing goes. On the pretext of what you said just now, the modernization of the method of applying the coronary - that is what Mr Antonglou said coming to Crete - and the Government invoking the 'CALIKRATITI', what you said, through legislation, will in fact load the organisation, funding, recruitment of staff, the implementation of the programme in the regions, while holding the supervisory role for the results. Let's see something else now. Given that central self-resources have been reduced by over 70% in regions and municipalities, with budgetary suffocation, which exists and which will last for two months, it seems that the implementation of the tacosy will be accompanied by a strengthening of the compensation, i.e. by an increase in the contributions to producers. In short, the state throws the ball in the regions in order to get rid of it and this development is, of course, the most dangerous for the country's olive oil production and the poor farmers, who are, if you like, another way to be forced into abandonment. So this is a choice with which the regional authorities agree - not to forget that the vast majority of the regional authorities are New Democracy and PASOK - with the reasoning 'give us the responsibility to stop bureaucratic processes, the Athenian-centric state' and the well-known ones. However, it hides both the government and the regional authorities that the cost of the tacoteria will be borne - and I conclude, Mr President - by the producers themselves with the 2% increase in the current contribution. In fact, some cooperatives appear to be 'crowds' and the government and the European Union, which are pretentious of years of underfinancing or that 2% is not attributed to the state by the oil mills, to increase the contribution of up to 4% and 5% in order to keep the certification of oil as an extra virgin by charging the costs to the producers themselves. We have made this clear, Minister, and we urge you again to answer these questions. Will this smuggling end to the poor producers on the issue of coronary murder? For the JRC, fraud cannot be the producer's individual case, because it has high costs and thus becomes ineffective. Therefore, farmers should not expect each government to resolve the problem. There is a need for racing vigilance, because the problem of tacosty is to be added to a set of problems of the poor producers who are present today, which will actually throw them off the ground and from their production. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u53	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u54	Mr. Synhronakis, first of all we do not avoid answering and we do not throw the ball. The opposite may be the case where a body is not competent. What can we tell you? Since the regions are responsible for the implementation of the homicide. Should we get into the district fields? What's the haggling? Is the invasion that we repeat what the law defines? The regions implement the homicide. You should understand that, first. Secondly, I have read you a statement from the Region of Crete, not from Mr Antonoglou, that the spray will normally occur. Don't worry about the world. Micro-problems will always exist, but the main course of implementation, with Kallikrates, belongs to the regions. How do we do it now? Saying we're messing around is the only thing that's easy. Saying what's going on is the hard part. Is the Ministry of Rural Development responsible for the implementation of the tactical programme and for how the spray is to be sprayed, yes or no? To reverse it and ask me now. No, of course not. What's the haggling? Thirdly, when it comes to abolishing the levy, yesterday the answer came from the Indirect Taxation Application Directorate. I will present it to you to read it. Regarding the request for 2% that you mentioned and for the abolition of the tacotic levy for small producers of oilseeds, we note that in every procedure for reviewing all taxes, fees, contributions, etc., any changes proposed are being examined in response to the particular need to stabilise our country's financial data, given the current budgetary situation. In conclusion, Mr Synergyakis, what the Ministry of Rural Development bears, this is to the point of antenna. The main implementation, however, belongs to the regions, which, in cooperation with the Ministry of Rural Development, always implement the tactics programmes with the leading role, I repeat, the regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr. Red. We continue with the first 1111-27-2017 top-level question of the first cycle of the MP Pellis of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Theodoras Jakris to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "The marketing of nuclei fruits 2017". The Minister for Rural Development and Food will answer Mr Evangelos Apostolos. Mrs. Jackrey, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u56	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, during your recent visit to Veria some time ago, you personally attended the signing of the interbranch organisation for the nucleus fruits which, as you yourself pointed out, is a move, an initiative aimed at developing cooperation. You know very well that the area of Pella and the area of Imathia are based on the cultivation of peaches. I would even say that he played - and still plays a very important role - in developing the local economy, but also in our own economy, since it is one of the most important export products. It is true that in recent years we have had particular problems at the disposal of the peach. Let me begin by saying that only for the compact peach, during periods of overproduction such as this year, this always results in reduced production prices. I remember very few years ago that producers would benefit from a good price. And that is only in years, Minister, where production was considerably reduced. Let me say that this has led the producers to lead to table varieties of peaches. The truth, however, is that this move did not favour them, because since 2014 the Russian embargo has created additional problems in the movement of these quantities. Minister, people have done their best to turn the exports of table peach to other markets. As you know, however, this cannot happen from one day to the next, much more so that the Russian market was monopolizing - I would say - Greek products. Moreover, the reduced consumption power of Greek households cannot lead to an increase in domestic demand. Moreover, overproduction, which is presented in other countries of the European Union, such as Spain and Italy, is not helping this year, so that producers are currently facing very low prices. They also face farm-related phenomena, which always apply, from traders and intermediaries. The producer groups once again were unable to play their part. It is true that the pathogenes that exist in the trade union movement also led to a lack of proper functioning of the producer groups, resulting in this institution, which could actually help in this case, so that a mass of farmers could be enslaved as well in order to gather a critical quantity that could be a critical negotiating volume, it has not happened again. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Nor can there be any significant absorption of Community resources in order to restructure the issues facing the marketing of peaches. In this respect, a meeting was held last week - you know that very well - at the Ministry of Rural Development and some emergency measures were decided. Minister, I think that the five thousand two hundred and fifty tonnes available for compact peaches this year are not enough. Definitely a little breath. However, the Ministry must strive to ensure that the additional quantities of two thousand tonnes are fully taken to the table peach so that the market is dismantled. The Ministry must also ask the European Commission to increase these quantities to the maximum possible level, precisely in order to decompress the market, Mr Minister, and to be able to balance a little the prices, which at the moment we are talking about today is less than 15 cents per kilogram, when the tariff is 30 cent per kilogram. You should also consider the possibility of energising resources, as you have said, in Veroia by depositing this dossier. The loss of producers' income should be haunted as well as possible in order to absorb Community resources. If this is not possible, Minister, we should go to de minimis aid. At the end of the trade period, I am sure there will be a major loss. And that proves to be true. I told you the cost to the producer is 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u57	Ms. Jackrey, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u58	I will close with that, Mr President. Excuse me! The Ministry should at some point activate sub-measure 17.3 of the Rural Development Programme, which enables producers to stabilise their income over years, such as this year's income reduction of more than 30%, in relation to the producer's annual average income. It provides for the creation of a mutual fund, as you know much better than I do. Indeed, compensation can be found to support producers in this exceptional crisis that they are facing this year. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u59	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u60	My colleague, your anxiety is also our concern. The difference is that we must approach our agony and within a reality that is being shaped. The fact is that on 1 July 2017, i.e. four days ago, Regulation 2017/1165 was adopted, introducing temporary exceptional support measures for producers of certain fruits. The price, according to this decision made by producers, is therefore 29.6 cents per kilogram. There is a detailed reference to products and prices in the Annex to this Regulation. And, of course, the 37.5 cent price you refer to per kilo - I wish we could take it - concerns free-distribution programmes after 2018. So, in today's year, it is what we are discussing today. It provides for maximum quantities of fruit and vegetables which can be withdrawn by product group: apples and pears: six hundred and eighty tons, plums and table grapes: four thousand hundred and sixty-five tonnes, oranges, clementines, mandarins, etc. Two thousand tons and, of course, peaches and nectarines, what we are talking about now and we are concerned with five thousand three hundred fifty-five tons. These quantities can be increased - and we have also discussed this at the meeting we had - with two other thousand tonnes with the possibility of the regulation, but of course, provided that the same absorption does not occur in other products. What I have to tell you is that we are making a great effort for all of us together to contribute and to be able to absorb these quantities and to look for more, but at the same time, there is a substantial benefit to all those involved. I do not want to mention what has happened in the past with these distributions. We are currently working with the bodies, with all the parties involved, preparing an institutional framework, a draft ministerial decision to implement the regulation that I mentioned to you. At the same time, we instructed the Permanent Representation, the AAC in Brussels, to investigate within the Special Committee on Agriculture the possibility of increasing the quantity allocated to our country, of course, in relation to temporary exceptional support measures for other regions - in particular the debate we had at the meeting to which you referred - such as Spain and Italy. We have therefore taken this initiative. However, what we were told was that they also have increased production, but they have no question of honour at this time with peaches. In Italy because at present there is an increased temperature, consumption has increased. And the Spanish said that we are not interested in this case at the moment. But from our point of view, we will insist, and even if there is no support from the countries concerned, that we should put in place one, file again - I repeat - in consultation with the institutions in the region by calling for the emergency aid to be documented.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u61	Mrs. Jackres, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u62	I have listened carefully, Minister, to everything you have said. In fact, when the sector faces different problems, there are tools available in the framework of the Rural Development Programme and in general the regulation in force for each product, but also in the context of national possibilities. Of course all these tools, inter-professional groups and producer groups, and most of all agricultural cooperatives, can make a decisive contribution. I will insist that extra provision should be made. I will insist on what I said, Minister, that the amount of the additional two thousand tonnes for this year's management period in the emergency measures of the embargo should be directed towards the peach, which is currently the first product to be imported and which is vulnerable. It is not like other products that could be brought to other uses, because they can stay in refrigerators for longer. You know very well that peaches are a particularly sensitive product and that is why they should be in your priority. In addition, I will insist on something. So far we have not exhausted this possibility, and the services of your Ministry must gradually start to act on measure 17.3 of the Rural Development Programme, which, as I said before, gives producers the possibility of stabilising their income if there is a loss of more than 30% of their income which deviates from the average annual agricultural income. As you are well aware, there is provision for setting up a mutual fund where it really is possible to provide aid to producers in return for the emergency crisis they are experiencing. Also, as you know much better than I do, these programmes will also be allocated to the new CAP after 2020. I therefore think, Minister, that there is a very obvious legitimate interest, that this sub-measure should be activated by the services of the Ministry. I know that it is difficult, because everything you have said in cooperation with the relevant bodies will have to be done, and we will have to put in place dossiers that prove their loss of income in any case. It is, however, a tool that we can now activate for the extraordinary crisis that we live in the peaches because of the reduced prices that the producer enjoys, but also in every case of emergency, which unfortunately occurs a great deal. Problems in trafficking and trade are well or badly faced with other products throughout Greece. I think it's a tool that really can contribute decisively. I also think that the Ministry should play such a role because, as I have already said in my prototype, the producer groups cannot, unfortunately, play their institutional role in order to inform farmers about the possibilities that we have given them all these tools, whether the regulations and the Rural Development Programme or the domestic tools, to make use of them and to absorb them literally Community resources, so that they can solve the restructuring problems and the problems that exist in general in all products, in this case in table peach.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Jackie. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u64	So let's get rid of the possibilities that this regulation gives us. Let's run out 100%, I'd say, these possibilities. From there on, we said we'd haunt as best a specific file as possible that will prove that the situation is urgent to ask for the extra. But I want to tell you that for peach farming it is not just that. There are other general support measures, for example, the concept of 'aid', greening, also the balancing, support for biological and other actions, which I would say complement the income from this crop. For peaches, too, intended for juicement, we decided to grant related aid. We therefore aim to ensure that there is such sustainability not only in the production process, but also in the processing process in this region. The measure's budget amounts to about EUR 3 million a year. The aid price for 2015 was EUR 169 per hectare, respectively for 2016 at EUR 167 per hectare. It did not show the absorption we had as a target. We believe, however, that we will be able to achieve this over the next few years, which is why this amount has remained unchanged. There are also other programmes such as the peach promotion programme in third countries. It's I'd tell you too much reinforcement in this effort to get into foreign markets. A total of seventeen fruit and vegetable promotion programmes are being implemented in this region, particularly for table peaches, which this year seems to have a greater problem than for co-operating. It was also yesterday that the COMFUZO, the measure of the Rural Development Programme concerning the impact of insects and we are talking about an aid of EUR 387 per hectare. In other words, I would like to tell you with this position that, in general, this sector is a sector for the Ministry of Rural Development, mainly because of its export possibilities, which we must support, because its contribution to the reduction in the commercial balance of agricultural products is very important.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We continue with the discussion of the fourth under number 1109-27-2017 in the first cycle of the MP Pella of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Sahinides to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Sloppiness in the Regional Unit Pellas". Mr. Shahinides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you are well aware that since the mid-April last year, the farmers of the Pella Regional Unit have suffered enormous damage from frost and rainfall and the quartzfall has come to end them. The damage to crops is total, especially in the trees where production is affected and for the next year, as you well know, because the "eyes" are being beaten. These multiple theories of recent months, as in the previous year, have actually brought the agricultural world of Pella desperately. The non-timely payment of compensation from previous years, the long delay in the registration of losses, the anticipation of the reimbursement of the oil tax since 2015, as well as the increase in insurance contributions to unified ECA now, are problems that arise from all that I have mentioned to you. There are also some other problems related to the ELGA regulation, to which you referred previously and which have to be renewed since 2008. Previously, the Deputy Minister of State, Mr Kokalis, in reply to a question from another Member of Parliament, said that there was no compensation for the chestnut wedge or from the PES. I have said again to another timely question, Mr Minister, that once the statement to the UCLAF has been submitted, either the variety, or the production, it should be immediately included in the book of the ELGA Regulation. All this in the light of the measures adopted - but not yet implemented - at the expense of agricultural income, Minister, is deterring anyone from operating in the primary production sector. So you are asking what measures you have taken to immediately record and estimate damages, what length of time do you plan to finish and whether the payment of the compensation will be immediate and will be 100% of the damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u67	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u68	Indeed, there were significant damages to the rainfall and the hailfall caused in the region on the second fortnight of May 2017 and on 14 June 2017. The necessary markings from ELGA's Services have been made. There were announcements and about eight thousand three hundred statements submitted. So now the work of individualized assessments begins. He is currently in progress. Of course, after completion, the relevant findings will be presented and the compensation will be paid to beneficiaries who are insurers. Furthermore, for the timely completion of the assessment process, you know that we - and we still have - have - a problem concerning the valuers of the ELGA. We've already hired the necessary seasonal staff. In other words, Veria's store has already been staffed with seasonal geotechnic staff, so that it can respond. At this time this procedure shall be carried out by sixty-eight regular and seasonal geotechnics. We are talking about an area which has suffered a great deal of damage and which has a particularly strong crop. In other words, with the help of all of this, we expect these findings to be implemented quickly. Of course, as you can see, these findings will follow a process which will end up with the OPECE in October. When these are completed, the payment of the compensation will be followed. Of course, in your area there were other problems from previous damages, mainly to kernel crops. I would say that it is the place where the worst weather has happened, unfortunately, when the crops were at the best level, I would say, as far as their profitability is concerned. Also, we had the iceds of Genarris and February 2017. These damages to herbal capital cannot be covered by ELGA’s insurance. That is why we are going to enter the agricultural procedure known as the PSEA procedure, namely state financial aid. Of course, after the relevant dossier has been drawn up, it will be submitted to the European Commission in order to obtain approval. The payment will be made within the framework of a programming programme which the Ministry of Finance allows the General Accounting Office of the State to pay for these losses. What I have to tell you is that, for the 2016 damages in Pella and Imathia, 12 million euros were paid, a large part of the damages in 2016. There's a remnant. Our planning is as quickly as possible to reach what we have as a basic objective, payments being around six to seven months.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u69	Mr. Shahinides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. I would be a little indulging for some time, because what I will say to the Minister is very serious and especially when it comes to the primary sector. Indeed, Minister, we have also voted - and we have supported it - the recruitment of seasonal staff, because little - we are all from rural areas and we know the needs that exist. But here, the record of damage has been closed only for table peaches from the quartzfall in Krya Brysi and has not started at all, Minister, for industrial products. I'm talking about the area from which I come from, the area of Krya Vrysi. I don't have any information about what's happening to the rest. But I'll be briefed immediately. Next to a former municipality, in the Municipality of Alexander the Galatads, which is considered a village from the main pillars of the production of peaches, has not even begun. For the vineyards it started just the day before yesterday. No record of damage to cotton, beets, corn, cherries, apples, pears, apricots, fruit and vegetables has been started at all. The rural population, who have taken up registration in the region and numbered about twenty, is not enough. Indeed, we know that agriculture has come from other regions, including Larissa, even from other remote prefectures. It is very difficult to cover within the timeframe mentioned in the report on damages. In my question, therefore, I would like to mention and ask if the compensation, Minister, is very essential and I would ask you here to pay attention to it - it will respond to 100% of the damage. This has nothing to do with the percentage that the geoponors will bear, but also with how many pounds they will put, Minister, because by certifying 100% damage to a production and putting ten pounds per tree, they are not covered. We are asking here for the maximum, therefore, in kilograms, because most producers, as you have said, have been hit by frost in the same productions. You know and I know, but it is better known that farmers who experience it in their pockets, that the payment of compensation for this year's damage from bad weather at best will be given in March 2018, something that translates into disaster for farmers. Here, then, call, Minister, to make brave decisions so that you can ease the pain of farmers. Some of the subsidies, as I have said before, are paid at the end of December. So the 'fresh' of all the farmers' obligations - and this is very essential, Mr Minister, I have been asked by many farmers in my area for as long as it takes, for at least eight months, for bank loans, HICPs, EFKAs, tax. It must also be ordered that public goods such as electricity, telephone and water should not be switched off, in consultation with the relevant ministries. That would be a very brave first step. On the basis of findings - and that is what I would like you to say whether or not it is true - you should be able to get a loan to cover as quickly as possible some of the compensation for the immediate relief of farmers. You also have to give - and this is a very serious issue that has arisen, and here it is a completely responsibility of your Ministry, Minister - an extension of the farmers' tax declarations. For accountants who are invited to make a statement by entering the "taxisnet", the "professional farmers' tax records" by the Ministry of Rural Development, which you sent to the Independent Public Revenue Authority, was wrong. Code 37 or 38 in Table 2 of the E1 has not been supplemented by the services of the Independent Public Revenue Authority in order to allow the farmer to establish ‘the principal occupation of a farmer’ and to have the tax-free discount of EUR 1,900 to 2.100. Accountants cannot complete it because the taxisnet system, as you know, does not allow them. The first test clearance results in the payment of large instalments for farmers. A few days ago, in his attempt to correct this situation, he uploaded new files and the result was to create chaos, Minister, because as long as codes 37 and 38 were open, they saw that they were not checked, and that resulted in those who met the criteria not being included in these "taxisnet", so they are not recognised and lost tax discount. All of this, together with the increase in tax rates from 13% to 22% up to 45%, Minister, and the increase in tax advance rate from 75% to 100%, is a disaster for farmers. Finally, I will say that it is imperative, Minister, to create an ELGA office in Pellas, because the office of ELGA Veroia, to which you referred, is to cover three prefectures, the Imathia, Pellas and Pierres Prefectures. You know very well that in cases like the ones we have seen, it is impossible to meet the needs of recording so that damage can be attributed more quickly. I am also finishing with this, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance - you have to tell us why in the last quarrel the flights from the Centre for Meteorological Applications did not take place. As I have said to another timely question, it is the third best in predictions in the world. Why didn't they get up? Was it financially uncomfortable to stand up and sew in order to make the sprays? Here my information, Minister, tell me that it was not for that reason. The three-day hails at Pellas Prefecture coincided with Netanyahu's visit to Thessaloniki and beyond the passenger ships, there was a banning flight and the planes were not lifted because Netanyahu visited Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u71	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u72	You raised so many issues that we finally got to Netanyahu.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u73	It's got a direct connection.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u74	What I'm going to do is ask them to let me know why they didn't fly. From that point on, I'm not entering different scenarios. What I want to say to you is this: we are talking about a western Macedonia in which there is currently no kind of weather damage that has not experienced it. So we are in an hour's time where we have taken staff from other regions in an effort to assess the damage and, above all, to start with these rapidly ending crops. For example, you cannot let the cherries wait, while the others, the table peach, for example, could wait a little longer. I say this so that we can see the image of a general disaster in an area where we with the few powers we have, hired temporary staff and sending staff from other regions - and we have these areas to protest and say 'Why are you taking our own and going to other areas'? - we're trying to meet the needs that exist. You have generally referred to the needs of farmers in relation to their taxes and other obligations. To make one thing clear: First of all, it is not our responsibility. However, as long as they specify the needs, they had to submit a similar request, since the local government, in consultation with the regional authorities, characterises the region as being affected by exceptional circumstances - that is to say, a state of emergency - and after this procedure, they should contact the Treasury, substantiating their request. In similar cases where these have occurred in other regions, these decisions have been taken. From that point on, you raised other issues. For example, you have referred to the problem with taxation. It's not our responsibility. I do not want to transfer the obligations elsewhere, but the relevant situation has left OGA. We have contacted the General Secretariat of Income, trying to correct it and this problem has actually been corrected. So we're trying as hard to serve the space as we can. You mentioned the need to set up a new ELGA office. With the permanent staff we now have, we cannot respond to the functioning of the existing offices and we do not have the opportunity to recruit. So you understand how difficult the process is for us. There are other problems. With the assessors, we still have a loose end in relation to their kilometre compensation. We can't, even though we're making a big effort. In general, I would say to you to bear in mind that we have an organisation which operates reciprocatingly - that is what the regulation says - and covers these damages that already exist as insurance risks under the regulation, having an equivalent premium. I'm sure there's a need to expand. We therefore want proportionate studies to be carried out on additional insurance risks. You realise that, since ELGA is exclusively reciprocatingly operating, this implies additional premiums. In an hour when the crisis has implications in the rural area, we are also trying as hard as possible not to load any further problems, whether we can and can overcome what we have and get into another period, especially for the rural area that I think needs and can help to restructure the country. We are therefore working in that direction.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u75	We continue with the first 1118/3-7-2017 topical question of the second-round question of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Panagiotas Dritsel to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "The need to speed up the procedures for compensation the farmers of the Trikala Prefecture affected by extreme weather". Mrs. Drittelli, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, about fifteen days ago, the strong quartzfall that hit Trikalon Prefecture, unfortunately resulted in several extensive disasters in too many crops in three of the four municipalities of the prefecture, in the Municipality of Trikkaion, in the Municipality of Pylis and in the municipality of Kalabakas. These disasters, according to the Regional Unity records in Trikala, extend to about 10,000 acres and relate to sixteen villages. These are sixteen villages, which live - and I would like to point out this - exclusively from primary production. So, as is shown by these records from the Regional Economic and Veterinary Directorate of the Regional Unit, the damage relates to maize, cotton, olive trees, fruit and vegetables, vineyard crops and trees such as nuts and chestnuts. The farmers themselves have been addressing all municipal and regional authorities from the very day after next and have declared the damage they have suffered and the process has been completed. Nevertheless, we need to move to the next phase, namely the assessment and completion of the compensation. I would like to point out here that in the Trikalon Prefecture, this quartzing and these rainfall are the second ones that are happening this year. In other words, there are farmers who have seen their crops destroyed for the second time. As you can see, at a time when farmers already have tax and insurance obligations, I think the process should be speeded up. Finally, once this process has been completed, it should also be taken into account by the ELGA actors, but also by the Ministry's political leadership, Minister, the fact that the time of this quartzing was on advanced fruition, that is, the farmers saw all their troubles depleting. That is why I think it is necessary, of course and also the extent of the disasters, to complete the task of the appreciators of the ELGA, but also to ensure that all the farmers who saw their crops are hit by the extreme weather phenomena. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u77	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u78	Madam colleague, we left western Macedonia and headed to Thessaly. Indeed, the damage you mentioned in the Regional Section of Quaestors from quartz and windstorms has been noted. The necessary labels and announcements have been made and, of course, the claims for damage have also been made in the first stage. From there on we have the work of personalised assessments under way. Let's go first to what we're up to, I'd say, at the harvest stage so that we can get the real picture on other crops that we haven't started yet, that we're not there yet, we're going later. Of all this, relevant findings will be presented. I believe that in October, through the procedure that must pass through the OPEKEPE, the cycle will have been closed at least for those who are insurers to be paid. I should like to tell you that compensation and assessments are, of course, made on the basis of the geotechnical assessments of qualified people, but at the same time they are also subject to a specific regulation. We are trying to use them both so that we can especially help the farmers affected. You know, too, that there is still an unresolved question of the large number of kilometric compensation to valuers using their own car for visits. We had an assurance from the Treasury yesterday that at the end of July or August he would make a relevant circular to cover this part. In addition, within the days, in the bill of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food we will be tabling on the compulsory registration of the country of origin of dairy products and the timely payment of agricultural products, we are bringing in a regulation on geotechnics dealing with controls - not only employees of the Ministry but also the bodies supervised by the Ministry - so that we can satisfy the daily allowances that come from a long time ago, in a year that will also be accepted by the Ministry of Finance. What I want to say to you is that it is our main aim that assessments respond as much as possible to the actual losses that exist, and of course we are trying to use as much of qualified personnel as possible. It is not that easy, but in order to speed up the procedures, I say to you that we have already had a recent intake of two hundred geotechnics, which have been key to their experience in this process. We believe that we will be able to complete the procedures in such a way that we can be consistent with the farmers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u79	Mrs. Drittelli, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I am pleased to hear that the recordings and assessments of damage have already begun. It is important, especially at this time, for farmers to know that the appreciation work will not be delayed as before and that the administrative services will be next to them this time, especially at this time when these extreme weather phenomena are presented. I would like to say, however, that this issue, as you understand it, is a matter of concern throughout the country and not just in the Trikala Prefecture, unfortunately. It's a multi-level issue. That's the only way we can deal with it. Obviously, it concerns farmers, but it also concerns ELGA, its regulation, but also the workers, and all of them have primary production as a common denominator of course. So I am delighted to hear you refer to the issue, the thorn that exists with the movements of ELGA valuers. I hope and hope that it will be resolved very soon. It is a problem that must definitely be overcome. I would also like to say to you this: ELGA's farmers and workers obviously recognise the very important steps that have been taken in the organization lately and with contractors who have been hired and who have been assisting the very difficult task of the ELGA's minimum permanent crops. On the other hand, however, in the context of climate change we are experiencing in general, we should also see the issue of updating the ELGA regulation. In other words, things that may no longer exist or the conditions imposed by the new data must be included in the ELGA regulation, so that farmers can know that we have an organisation that, as you say, is rewarding, they know that they have it next to them and that they can hope that in any disaster these people can be compensated for at least not only for the work they have spent, but also for the sums they have spent. Finally - and I am ending with this - it is important both through the administrative and scientific interventions that you have referred to before, to reduce the risk of agricultural production, especially today, which, as it turns out, is at least economically and environmentally, and finally to embrace the agricultural world in another way and to give them an agricultural policy which is obviously based on scientific depth, but also on administrative efficiency, in order for young people, young farmers to remain in their villages and to make it possible at last to reconstruct production which we have all dreamed about and which we want for the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u81	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u82	Let me add, Madam President, that in addition to the damage that has to do with the insurance of the ELGA, there are damage to the plant capital in the area, which is not covered by the ELGA, but we will draw up a dossier, which we will submit to the European Commission, through procedures to document this disaster and necessity, in order to strengthen the respective producers. This is a process that has its time, because in terms of loss, especially in farming inspection, it must take a year to determine to what extent the damage has been done. At the same time, however, the dossier needs to be submitted, approved and, because it is aid from the State budget, we need to see whether there is a possibility of it being covered. Time's short. For example, in the last thing I told you about the PSAs, where we were paying for the four and five years, we've reached half. Corresponding to the payments related to the premium for producers, so where we were in the 12 and 13 months, we have gone down to six and seven months, how much more so when it is accepted by everyone that we have experienced, especially in the last two years, weather and damage very catastrophic. There is a need to see whether the insurance risks covered by the ELGA need to be reviewed, in particular the effects that, because of climate change, have also emerged in our country and which are related to what the whole world says as a fruitfulness, that is, bad fruit. There, therefore, because we need to haunt the new insurance risk, there must be similar proportionate studies, always bearing in mind that the proportionate studies also bring the corresponding premium. We do not want to burden the rural area at this time with extra costs. We'll see how we deal with them. However, a committee has been set up, which is currently working on a specific proposal, to see what insurance risks we will cover in addition.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We continue with the second with number 4958/10-4-2017 question of the cycle of petitions by the Independent MEP Mr. Dimitrios Koukoutsis to the Minister of Rural Development and Food about the risk of the traditional ouzo Kalamata from the list of products of protected geographical indication. Mr. Koukoutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr President. It is much more pleasant after the theories have been recorded so far. You know, Minister, that ouzo specifically as a drink is interconnected is very close to the culture of our city. Already there have been records since the 14th century - to make a historical retrograde - that there was distillation in our county and in our town and production of spirit drinks from distillation. In the decade between 1860-1870, and much later, the first modern machines came from France and since then there have been records of ouzo production in our region. The question is that today there are too many businesses operating in our town and in the prefecture of ouzu and tsipouro and, indeed, with great success. However, the European Union proposes changes to the arrangements applicable to alcoholic beverages, which will lead to burdens. With the proposal for the new regulation, at least in the first phase, there are no changes to the production process, but to the bottling sector. Greek spirit drinks contain alcohol of agricultural origin and this scheme remains. We have said that the changes are foreseen in the bottling area and there are different approaches to how to produce. We think - and we are doing well as a country - that the place of origin must also be the place of standardisation. The administrative burden is not increased in order to obtain a 'protected geographical indication' certification and the process passes through associations. For products already on the list, it shall be possible at any time to drop out of the list of certified products, without sufficiently substantiated reasons. The bulk comes back, which is a big problem. Alcohols, non-agricultural alcohol, but innovative in terms of technology, also enter the process of recognition. I would like to ask you what measures you intend to take. Will the Greek side request the exclusion of the traditional ouzo Kalamata from the new regulation proposed by the European Union? How will both the producer and the consumer be protected? Will the Government allow ouzo Kalamata to have the fate of feta after the CETA transatlantic agreement with Canada? Will the Greek Government respond to the request from the European Commission to impose the same rate of excise duty on tsipuro and tsikoudia, as is the case for ethyl alcohol? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u85	Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u86	In answer to your questions, there is also a co-responsibility with other ministries. I'll try as much as I can to cover for you. Indeed ouzo Kalamata is a geographical indication for Greece listed in Annex 3 to the regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council. To start by answering your questions about bottling and not in general the packaging of spirit drinks bearing the indication of geographical protection, we believe that this should take place within the geographical area concerned. That's our place. We therefore do not agree to delete an established geographical indication, because there will be a major problem for producers of the product concerned. The arrangements for the taxation of alcoholic products are harmonized in the European Union and are governed by specific directives from the European Economic Community, which start from 1983 and the majority of them have been incorporated into our national law. With regard to ouzo, the provisions of the Ministerial Decision that the name ‘ouzo’ constitutes a geographical indication also apply. With regard to the distillation of ticks and ticks, in accordance with the existing legislation, excise duties on products produced in our country by small producers are excluded from the special provisions on excise duty. They're known as two-day distillers. They have a special status, as far as taxation is concerned, and the conditions of production and disposal are concerned. This is the case today in our country, but, as you have said, we have a given before us, namely our reference to the European Court of Justice for excise duty.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u87	Since 2015.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u88	We are, therefore, the ones of the Ministry of Rural Development in contact with the Ministry of Finance and we will promote any action, in the context of the formulation and implementation of European Union legislation in our own national law. We are trying, in simple terms, to keep the rate of taxation for ticks as low as possible. Of course, because the threat also exists for the geographical indication 'ouzo', we will insist on this. In my dentistry I would say perhaps more about the circumstances in general, which are shaped in relation to the excise duty on alcoholic beverages in our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u89	Good, Minister. Mr. Koukoutsis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u90	Minister, something I failed to mention before is a measure which is unbearable for small producers and the cost of depositing the dossier as a whole. We have another pain in Messinia, which we have discussed, I have asked a question and to your honor you are always here to answer our questions. I was going to talk about the Kalamata olive case. It is another debate, but it should be too teaching for us. When I say 'for us', these are matters that do not concern you personally as Minister. They're about the government, they're about our country, they're about all of us. That's what I'm talking about in the first plural. According to what is being promoted by the Community regulation on geographical indication, as we have said, they will also bottle within the geographical area from which they come. So, logically, ouzo, tsipuro, mastic can be exported in bulk abroad and bottled there. However, this will mainly have the effect of losing 75% of jobs. Now, of course, are you going to tell me what is going on, for example, with the tsipouro in Greece? What's going on? Officially, distilleries say there is a production of 2.6 million litres in the country, while overall 24 million is moved, according to data. You can understand, then, how much the revenue that our country and our country are losing and especially the risks for the consumer. As you said before, our country has been brought before court - I think it was this year - for the arrangements for the reduced excise duty on alcoholic beverages. But so far we haven't got any specific answers. I hope that what has happened with other products will not happen. By the way, I mentioned before that, for our city, for Kalamata, ouzo is indeed tied to the culture of the city. In recent years in Kalamata, for example, and more generally in the Peloponnese there is tick consumption. So far, there hasn't been any. I mean, when someone went to Volos, he'd say I'd go sit down and have a cigarette in the ticks. In Kalamata the people always said I was going to the drinks. In other words, this product is considered - as in Mytilini - a product of the city. That's why there's this sensitivity. Enterprises operating in our area are prosperous, are too strong, with export capacity. That is why we would like you to see it very carefully. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u91	Mr. Apostle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u92	On 1-12-2016, we have a directive which calls on us to comply with the excise duty in the other countries of the European Union. It is an issue that concerns us, especially because the industry must be involved in a process of tax movement and we have taken the relevant decision. From there on, to see the impact on the tax revenues of alcoholic beverages, which is quite a precipitation. We're not ready. It is an issue which we are also discussing with the Ministry of Finance, which is also the responsibility of the ministries responsible, so that we can come up with a proposal. You referred to the Kalamata olive, which is a big issue. But at some point it must be understood to all of us that a product of PDO, which is in specific areas and its production in relation to the potential of the country and, in particular, the exports that are being made, somewhere we have to start, see what is the most advantageous of the national economy. There will be some intervention from our side, so that we can finally make use of these comparative opportunities and advantages which our country has, which are not located in a specific regional unit. We have as a basic tool that our country as a whole, thanks to its flora, fauna, its relief and all the shaping of geographical conditions, is something special. This special one must definitely serve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u93	Thank you. We continue with the seventh under the number 1170/4-7-2017 topical question for the second parliamentary party of the Communist Party of Greece. Diamonds Manolakos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "PROVET employees in the production of veterinary medicinal products". The Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity will answer Mr. Efi Ahtsoglou. Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr President. The truth is that pay is also going to the private, unfortunately, and also to the public sector. A case such as this is also for the workers of PROVET. It is a hundred and thirteen workers who, of course, cannot feed their family when we have entered the seventh month and are unpaid. The employer, where and where he pays small sums against what he owes, and even under pressure from the movement of workers. The collective committee of workers applied to the Labour Inspectorate and committed the employer by May 25 to give all the workers. This has not been done so far. At the same time, sixty workers are in employment. Of course, these workers can't live. Needs run and there's no stock. This is not the payroll, where there are savings! That is why the union committee, together with the delegation of the Trade Union Confederation of Pharmacos and the Federation, met with the management of the company and demanded self-evident: to pay what they have worked for. And of course, to ensure their work. What was the answer? No safeguards for anything. In fact, they were also asking the workers to stop, because the company could go to closure. I mean, raw blackmail! I mean - and I think you know - that this company is the only one in Greece. It produces veterinary medicinal products. It has financial liquidity problems for raw materials, but it is not the workers who are to blame for it. In fact, I should like to tell you the other thing when the Agriculture Minister left. When the government says 'I will develop livestock production', it means that such companies must promote and develop the state itself. Workers have shown enormous patience. They made a lot of sacrifices. It is challenged by the employer to cultivate guilt and the perception that this situation, which is not guaranteed capitalist profits in Employers, is the fault of workers literally. But the government has responsibilities too. We say this clearly because previous PASOK and New Democracy governments support competitiveness, payroll, monopolistic profits. Your responsibilities? That you have kept all the anti-gaut, which as a opposition you condemned. Not only that, but you have taken steps and further, up to the group redundancies, which you have passed in the fourth memorandum. We are asking for all the matters to be paid immediately - and for you to press on with this - and for there to be no further delay in payroll. The workers aren't begging. They're asked for their jobs. They're working on it. Of course, no job will be lost under the extortion of the labour force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u95	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Manolakou, the Ministry of Labour from the first moment, through the mechanism and the tools it has, through its Labour Inspectorate, stood on the part of the workers at the "ProVET" and their legal request to pay their wages. On 10 April the Association of Labour Inspectorates reported that they had not paid for four months. Immediately, on 24 April, the labour dispute took place. There the employer unreservedly recognized his debt to all employees. It took time to be able to repay the sums due and a one-month credit was granted. Immediately, the Labour Inspectorate has asked again to be informed of what is happening with regard to the payment of the remuneration due to workers and the schedule for payment of the full debt. Indeed, the Labour Inspectorate asked the workers and the responsible statements to file a complaint. Because, you know, non-paid is a criminal offence, it is a crime on the day following the day when the employer is obliged to pay them. All the arsenal available to the Ministry of Labour is therefore used to support the right of workers. It is precisely because the company has been delayed in responding, on 15 June the Labour Inspectorate again asks the employer to know what has happened to the case. The employer does not react and on 19 June he makes an on-the-spot check on the facility. It requested the data and provided the data on the list of debts and accrued earnings. There seemed to be debts to seventeen workers. It thus imposed a fine of EUR 15,100, as it was able to do. At the same time, the Ministry of Labour held a three-way reconciliation at the request of the workers. There he asked the employer for the status of debts, his repayment schedule, and he even demanded an indication of the sincerity of his intentions - because he recognises his debts and says he will pay them back - to pay a partial sum. The employer paid on 30 June 15 days to each worker, not of course as a disposition of payment but as a sincere intention to pay the wages. For its part, therefore, the Ministry of Labour has used all the means it has at the moment and will continue to push the employer in this direction.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Manolakou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u98	Madam Minister, it is true that no commitment has been made that you will do everything you can to give the result and not to lose any job. These are the main demands. As far as the Ministry has used the entire legal framework, I would like to tell you that the legal framework is well known and you are poor, it is declining. In fact, they are in favour of the employer and against the workers. He gave a fortnight. Do you know how much money is on average? Four hundred and fifty each worker got for the first for January. And I'm telling you we're in the seventh month. What are these workers gonna pay? The rent? PPC, threatened and in danger of being cut? They're gonna feed the family? They're gonna pay HISBIA? Are they gonna pay the tickets to go to work? I'm asking you. Have you wondered why children faint at school when six and seven months have their parents paid? You're saying you're taking action? I mean, recommendations. The legal framework, you say, has been poorly reduced and reduced in order to protect precisely the employer. So we're asking you. This company produces veterinary medicinal products. Its subject matter is necessary. He needs our country. When importing livestock products of two billion means that you can develop livestock and thus secure jobs. Normally, the State itself had to create such companies. You say you're on the side of the workers. We ask you clearly how it will be ensured immediately and quickly to give what is due. In addition, we learn - you may also be aware - that there has already been a buyer. Because it will use a legal counter-engineering framework we are asking you to ensure that they get their jobs, that there is no dismissal and no change in labour relations. You have measures for the purposes of capital through tax exemptions, financing for development laws. Even free work. For the working people, however, only taxes, carpets, wage cuts, pensions, abolition of allowances, smashing rights to be cheaper at work. We therefore ask for your commitment in an absolute way that, even with a new owner, all workers will be paid for their jobs, there will be no dismissal and no change in labour relations.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mrs Manolakou. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u100	I think that the evidence I quote in no way shows that the Ministry of Labour stands on the capital side and does not stand on the workers' side. In no case does that result. The imposition of the fine, the ongoing checks carried out by the Labour Inspectorate, the pressure exerted on the tripartite reconcilers demanded by the workers - well done and demanded - because they result in too many cases - shows precisely the intention and will of the Ministry of Labour to stand on the part of the workers who, in no case, obviously do not have the responsibility for the financial situation of the company today. As they did not participate in the company's profits when it was doing well, so you cannot ask them to participate in the company's deficit when it is not going well. I therefore think that this designation or this position has nothing to do with reality. From that point on, the Ministry of Labour uses the tripartite reconciliation and labour disputes conducted by the Labour Inspectorate in a manner multiplier than the previous governments. In our term of office, at least twice or more than twice as many tripartite meetings - more than three hundred have been held, and in the previous period fewer than a hundred fifty reconciliations have been made - many of which result in many positive results from the workers, whether this is about getting redundancies which have been announced either for the re-entry of personnel or for the payment of recruited workers. In such a context, we will continue to press for the payment of the fair demands and the legitimate entrants of workers, which the employer owes and has openly recognised. Obviously this will also happen if we go to another property regime and try to transfer the obligations to the next company. Obviously, when we have a succession of the property regime, all the obligations of the employer are transferred to the next one. From there on, and in an institutional context, we are taking initiatives to tackle the phenomenon of unpaid work, which is part of the overall problem of infringing the labour market. I think that for the first time in such a systematic way we are targeting unpaid work. They have nothing to do with the non-paid remuneration. There was no other institutional framework where the executive could intervene in the payment of the accrued and have been depreciated in recent years. Therefore, do not confuse these two cases. For our part, we are taking institutional action to ensure that the framework is better protected and to avoid cases of infringibility in the labour market, both with the bank payment of wages, which has become compulsory on our own government, to control exactly what is going on out there, and with other interventions, such as the exclusion of undertakings that systematically violate labour law from public money. We are also in cooperation with the Athens Labour Centre, which takes a very large initiative for unpaid work, and I think that the next period will improve the situation for the workers as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Minister. The timely question that has just been debated concludes and the list of topical and urgent questions that have been debated today. The following topical questions will not be discussed: The ninth under No. 1103/27-2017 topical question by MP Ioannina of New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Tsouulas to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Lleip guard in the villages of the Municipality of Pogonios Ioannina", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister responsible, Mr. Toska, due to his absence abroad. The tenth under number 1079/21-6-2017 topical question of the Parliamentary Attica of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Paraskevi Christophilopoulos to the Minister of the Interior, on the protection and safety of the people of Acharnes, will not be discussed because of the impediment of the Minister responsible, Mr. Toska, due to his absence abroad. Eleventh question under number 1080/21-6-2017, topical question by MP 2, Piraeus, the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Ragos to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The uncontrolled crime of the Roma has turned Mindi into an illegal man", will not be discussed because of the impediment of the Minister responsible, Mr. Toska, due to his absence abroad. The thirteenth, with number 1087/266/2017, a topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitris Kammenos to the Minister of the Interior, concerning the uncontrolled action of the hooded anarchists, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the relevant Deputy Minister Mr. Toska because of his absence abroad. The fourteenth under number 1082/21-6-2017, a topical question for second-cycle Athens of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Helen Zaroulias to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Continuing terrorist attacks against MMs from para-state elements", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister responsible, Mr. Toska, due to his absence abroad. The fifth question under number 1169/4-7-2017 of the F' Vice President of the Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the problems of the operation and the plan for the closure of the Scaramaga Children's Chronological Pathway, will not be debated because of an impediment to the Member's question. The eighth Question No 1171/4-7-2017, on the second question of the Athens Parliamentary II of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the'stap of the trade unions and civil liberties of workers in the telecommunications sector', will not be discussed after consultation of the Minister with the honourable Member. The second question under number 1156/4-7-2017 is the first question of the New Democracy MP Pellas Georgios Karasmani to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Start the end of the “carabinato” scandal by way of Halkidoni - Giannis - Edessa!"; it will not be discussed because of the obstruction of Minister Spirtzi, due to a meeting in Thessaloniki with his Bulgarian counterpart. The third, with number 1114/29-6/2017, topical question by MP Serres of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.MAR.Michael Jeleli to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The creation of three new toll stations on the Promahona - Serres - Port of Thessaloniki is disastrous for the Prefecture of Serres", will not be discussed due to an impediment of Minister Spirtzi, due to a meeting in Thessaloniki with his Bulgarian counterpart. The third under number 1112/28-6-2017 top-level question by MP Larissa of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas to the Minister for Administrative Reconstruction, on the subject: ‘Is the digital signature to be applied as from 1 July 2017?’ It is not debated because of an impediment by the Minister, Mr Gerovas, because of increased commitments. The sixth question, under number 1123/3-7-2017, is the second question of the MEP I of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Antonio Gregos to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Music of the name Macedonia to sports organisations", is not discussed due to the impediment of the State Secretary, Vassiliou Vassiliou, due to a workload. Also, the fourth question under number 1110-27-2017 will not be discussed in the context of the second question by Evia MP of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Michou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "On the brink of the collapse, the home of the hero of the nation's Andreas Miaoulis". Finally, the fifteenth question under number 1031/15-6/2017 will not be discussed in the 15th session of the Parliamentary 2nd Athens of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Helen Zaroulias to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The Municipality of Kavala legalises the pseudo-state in tourist exhibition in Constantinople". The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-06-S1-commons.u102	With the consent of the House at 12.15 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, 7 July 2017 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: a) the topical and urgent debate and b) the debate on No. 9/10-2-2017 topical and urgent question, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
