ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 25-7-2017 authorisation, PNZ's minutes of Tuesday 25 July 2017 were ratified by the Bureau, with regard to the vote on the entire motion of the President of Parliament: "To amend provisions of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament - Part II (Financial Affairs 51 A'/10.4.1997) and Part Parliamentary (Financial Affairs 106 A'/24.6.1987), as applicable".]] I have the honour to announce to the House that the Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Interior: ‘Approvements to modernise the institutional framework for the organisation and operation of municipal waste water treatment companies (ICCs) - Arrangements relating to the organization, operation, financial and personnel of the O.T.A. - European Groupings for Territorial Cooperation - Citizens' Register and other provisions'. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the supplementary agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of the Interior: ‘Structurings for the modernisation of the institutional framework for the organization and operation of municipal waste water treatment companies (I.C.A.)’. - Arrangements relating to the organization, operation, financial and personnel of the O.T.A. - European Groupings for Territorial Cooperation - Citizens' Register and other provisions'. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 24 July 2017 to discuss the draft law at two single meetings in principle, on articles and on amendments. I propose to you in addition to the decision of the Conference of Presidents. The meeting begins with the two main rapporteurs from SYRIZA and New Democracy, the six fellow special speakers. Then I will give the floor to the Minister, whom I have consulted. I will give him a little more time to be ready to say, which of the amendments he has tabled and which he has not accepted, to be familiar with colleagues from almost the beginning of the sitting. From the ministerial amendments, the six have been incorporated, as you know, since yesterday in the form of articles in the committee. There are three amendments left. For the two will come Mrs Fotou and Mr Famelos to support them at noon - at 11 a.m. with 11 a.m. and around 14 a.m. Fahmelos - and there is a third that is the Minister, who is present and will be supported by him. We've scheduled two days for meetings. We will see, of course, how many colleagues will be registered. If what is usually done is a double number of those who spoke to the committee, where 11 Members spoke, I think that today we can close the sitting at around 22.00 hours, that is to say, on a 12-hour day and tomorrow, where, because there are too many articles, the rapporteurs, the speakers, the Parliamentary representatives and the Minister will, of course, have the right to secondary education. I suggest it, if you like.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u2	We'll see the demand.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u3	I said, depending on how many will be registered. It may not be necessary. So if we can finish the bill at 12 o'clock tonight, we can do it, so we don't have tomorrow. There is also the President of Parliament here looking at me, and as I understand it, there will be no objection to doing so if we are done. In any case, programming is for two meetings.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u4	With one tolerance, Mr President, because it is a great draft law with many amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u5	There will be a relative tolerance for the rapporteurs and special speakers. But don't abuse. So in the general report I have made and in the small reservations as I have put them, I think, as far as I can see, the House is unanimous in agreeing and we can move forward.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u6	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u7	Yes, Mr. Gregoraco.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u8	Apologies for intervention but abuse in time are not the Members of Parliament, nor the rapporteurs, but the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u9	Why are you telling me that?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u10	Why do you say it's over at 12 o'clock at night, you don't count on anyone if we have other jobs and other obligations. We must pass the bills in this House, as you have decided, and we must be soldiers for no reason and listen to what you say.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u11	Who have they decided?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u12	It has been decided that there will be two meetings. We cannot be twelve and fifteen hours in the House, because the government at the last minute before the summer holiday has decided to bring in two hundred bills. I would ask you, as a parliamentary man, to respect Members' tolerances. Yesterday we were on six committees, today we are on four committees, tomorrow we are on five committees and we have Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u13	Good. Written your opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u14	Let me finish, Mr President. Honestly, Mr President, I hear from an old parliamentarian that the sitting will run from 10 a.m. to 22 a.m. or at 12 a.m. Why? Can't we go tomorrow and tomorrow? And on weekends we should go, if necessary, since this is how the House works and not the way it used to be. I would ask you very much to listen to the opposition.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u15	Are you done?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u16	I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u17	First of all, I have to say that your party has a representative at the Conference of Presidents and has not disagreed and since your party's representative agreed with what I have said so far, your protest has been recorded, but I just want to say it. Secondly, as you know very well, the only House that has the right to overturn a decision of the Conference of Presidents is the plenary. So when that time comes, if the plenary wants to continue tomorrow, we will continue tomorrow. The decision is there. If the plenary wants it, because in an hour's time we can end the debate on the bill and make the day free tomorrow, it will be what the plenary wants. I wonder how you said that to me, because we are about peers in our presence here and in general. However, the protest was recorded. We are starting with the general rapporteur of SYRIZA Mr Anastasio Pratsoli. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor. Please open the electronic record.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the existential demand of local government has been and is still exactly how to secure the self-government. I say it remains because despite occasional glorious designs and announcements, it never took flesh and bone in our country. A strong demonstration of the transfer of responsibilities without the corresponding transfer of resources and tools so that it can function. As an old and active self-government I have experienced the undeniable charm of local government and especially of the first degree, as it is directly linked to the everyday life and the tangible things that can be done, in contrast to the central power that lacks the advantage of proximity, it is multitude and often drowned in pluralism and contradictions. On the other hand, the consequences of the malfunctions, the lack of resources and the lack of the institutional framework are even more pronounced to support this important institution. The fundamental contradiction in the core of the functioning of local government stems, in my opinion, from the distance between the announcements and real intentions of all the previous governments. Although they talked about democratic institutions, at the heart of their minds they always had the client state and the rousfetti. Perhaps the only innovation that has endured time and we should mention it is the creation of the JEPs. Today we are called upon to solve the Gordian bond of chronic disharmonies, distortions and pathogens. The strategic objective of our Government is to replace the total of n.3852, known as "KALIKROATIS", by another more modern, operational and, above all, democratic framework as architecture, organisational structure, philosophy, if you like, has proved in practice not to serve the needs for which this system was built. The replacement of the bankrupt ‘KALIKARAT’ will take place at a later stage and will meet all the necessary and appropriate conditions for such an operation, such as overall planning, internal cohesion, targeting, codification and, in particular, democratic operation and transparency in decision-making. At this stage there is an attempt to regulate in principle important issues of the operation and organisation of OTAs and A' and B's, which were, of course, to be resolved by presidential decrees, as provided for in No.3852, but never happened. These are years of demands from local authorities, which at last have been heard. The dialogue with them has been long and persistent. This has, moreover, proved to be at the recent hearing of the bodies, since the bill was characterised by all operators as positive, very positive, satisfying, that it covers 100% of their proposals, important interventions, as they themselves have said. That is why the draft law has acquired its own urine wind. The institutions gave it, while some sought and even begged for the non-urban wind. I must point out, however, that during the parliamentary procedure of the committees, a fruitful and substantial dialogue has been developed, despite the koruna which has been heard about rhetorical provisions, clientele, cosmopolitanism and other such verbal pyrotechnics and all the representatives of the two parties that have ruled the country over the last few years and have introduced these concepts into the political life of the country and not only that, but they have supported and been politically supported in this client state. It has also been demonstrated during the discussion at committee meetings that the rapporteurs of the two parties who have not dealt with the contents of the draft legislation have not dealt with them, but have been confined to general discharges of the fragmentation of the provisions, showing a lack of knowledge, but also their class failure to accept solutions to problems which have affected both the workers and the representatives of the ATTs and, finally, the citizens. Indeed, they also call it a rhysphetological. The answer, of course, we do not. They gave it to the bodies who said: 'No, they are not ruffles. They were shortcomings, passions and demands of our own time struggles." That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the blind refusal of any initiative even if it is, as it has proved, the key pillars of our democracy, local self-government, makes the need at last for the party of Officerial Vice-President to have a credible account of it. Because today's story of blind polarization is not a proposition of progress but a proposal of desperation. The second pillar of the criticism of the opposition is that this bill is not a reform section. Except we never claimed that. Does that mean there's no perfume reform? I believe that this is the wrong idea. The Civil Registry is an innovative application and it comes to combine two databases of the registry and the budget. Furthermore, the provisions on JHA, which is the flagship of municipal companies, are in the sense of embodiing a new role which will allow them to use new investment tools, but also a more flexible and democratic administration. Today's bill consists of hundreds of forty articles structured in four parts and consists of provisions that aim to facilitate the operation of local authorities (a) and (b) degrees and to extend the protection net for OTA workers, as more than thirty articles regulate exclusively issues relating to them and free them from the hostage, to which the previous governments have captured them. It is of particular importance that action be taken to modernise the operation of municipal water and sewers, as well as the possibility of using new investment tools which are reflected in the first part of the project. Issues relating to the composition and the way in which the Board of Directors of JHA is appointed shall be dealt with in order to make the participation of representatives more representative of the minority of the municipal council, of employees' representatives or of an environmental and social body more representative. The possibility is to suspend the collection of the fee by 80% of the value of the water consumed, which was designed to study, construct or extend water supply and sewerage projects. As long as there is no need, however, it will be possible to reduce or even to zero. Even - and this is important - the decisions of the management boards of the JHA, which have not proceeded with the collection of this fee, are legitimate. The management board of the company is given the opportunity to establish a specific invoice for vulnerable consumer groups in accordance with the applicable objective criteria and to harmonise the pricing policy of JHA with the institutionalised principle of recovering water costs. European Directive 2000/60/EC. The possibility of repayment of late payments to municipalities in instalments, which can even reach 10 years free of surcharges and fines, is provided. The second part attempts to address a number of issues, which the institutional representatives of local government themselves and the representatives of its employees have raised and proposed over time for the better functioning of the services of local authorities and the existing legal framework. Issues related to the solution of TAs are dealt with and are treated with serious uncertainties, created in relation to the property and staff of such undertakings. Issues related to the remnants of anti-democrats and municipal advisors are also addressed, to the provision of personal protective equipment and measures for the health and safety of workers in OTAs. Local authorities and legal persons who do not comply with legislation on safety and hygiene at work are also provided for. Beneficiaries, permanent and contractual, of the benefit of dangerous and unhealthy work shall be extended. The aid granted by the municipalities to economically weak citizens or multiples in the event of an emergency is tax-free and inconsistent. Incentives are introduced to workers from border and island regions. A provision for favourable debt arrangements up to a hundred instalments is introduced to the municipalities - such as fines, calls, fees and contributions - with the exemption of surcharges and interest. Private, founding and operating incineration centres of the dead are also given the opportunity. In the third part of this draft law, there are arrangements which bring about significant changes in the institutional framework of the European territorial cooperation groups, EGTC, in order to adapt to what is defined in Regulation 1302/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013. The provisions aim at updating what the institutional architecture of the European Union's cohesion policy for the 2014-2020 programming period provides for EGTCs, as well as the enrichment of the existing legislation by means of the instruments and the possibility for those groups that have their head office in our country to respond to the Union's development role provided for in their Union legislation. It is worth noting that our country is among the least developed Member States, which have the courage to incorporate a new instrument into their development strategy. The fourth and final part of the bill and its first chapter provides for the creation of an information system called the 'Citizens' registrant'. This is a modernised section, combining the archive and civic databases and replacing the outdated manuscript systems. It will allow a flexible management and a substantial reduction in bureaucracy with a view to facilitating civil trade with municipalities. The second chapter provides, among other things, for the establishment of a Special Secretariat of Citizenship, directly under the Minister of the Interior, as announced during the recent visit of the Prime Minister to the Ministry of the Interior. Colleagues and colleagues, today we are discussing the draft'sweep' bill, which cleans the pathogens of the OTAs, to borrow the title of a newspaper. How, though, have these pathogens arisen? The answer lies in the fact that this client state, which has been set up over the past decades, had neither the political will nor the ideological position, solved such problems, because, precisely when citizens cease to be active and equal, but their system wants citizens - customers - voters to hold them hostage, it creates a framework with legal ambiguity and neglect. For us, for the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, which we want the citizens to be active and equitable, resolving these chronic problems is a primary concern but also a duty. Especially now, after the successful closure of the second assessment, the gradual but significant improvement of all the indicators of the economy and the reduction of unemployment, we must - and that is what we will do with all our powers - give breath to the daily lives of the citizens, to those who have lifted and lifted the burden of the crisis all these years. We are fighting the battle at all levels to get the country out of the swamp of the crisis, where the policies implemented until 2015 against all the destructive narratives of the New Democracy led to it. At first we had the record that the country was driven to disaster, the rating is not closed. Now it has been closed and not only have we not been destroyed, as I have said before, but economic indicators are improving and unemployment is falling. We've already entered a developmental orbit, and the investments started to appear. Meanwhile, the country was already on the market yesterday with quite satisfactory results, given the current conditions. But since this scenario did not come out of you, the other record began on the dismantling of institutions and the rule of law, but also on the dreadful thing about the abolition of freedom of the press. It really fits the "substantially Argiers", because there was never in the political history of the country's government, which has such a strong and political anti-government press. I would say, in fact, not only in the political history of the country but also at a pan-European level. But we are moving with constant steps and a lot of work, with our gun of will to change the sad reality of the memorials, in which you have led us with your policy and with our supplies of our ideology and the timeless values of the Left, but also the power that the people have given us and will give it to us again. Be sure that despite the difficulties - remember this - we will be able to get the country out of the Commission's darkness in the clearing of development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u19	Thank you very much. The rapporteur for the New Democracy, Mr Makis Voridis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u20	Mr President, I would like the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u21	What do you want? The debate is beginning now. What about, Mr. Kegeroglu?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u22	On a personal point, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u23	There's no staff. Your name didn't sound.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u24	Oh, it didn't sound!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u25	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u26	Only you offended me, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u27	Your name didn't sound.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u28	I'll document the staff...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u29	You know when the pleadings have started and your name hasn't been heard. Discontinuation for such a procedure...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u30	Didn't my name sound?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u31	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u32	Are you sure?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u33	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u34	I am not a vouch, Mr President, and I have listened very well to what you have said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u35	Mr. Kegeroglu, as you know very well...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u36	If you wish, you give me the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u37	Now you've put it right. In 'if I wish', you mean in breach of the Rules of Procedure. So as an old colleague, there you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u38	Mr President, I would like you to correct. I consider you justified, because you were not at the meeting of the Conference of Presidents...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u39	For what?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u40	...to which I have disagreed - perhaps the only one of the members of the Conference - with the planning recommended by the President because of the coexistence which has taken place, the confusion and the abolition of parliamentary control. I would like you to fix this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u41	First of all, we did not talk about total programming. We talked about today's bill and, secondly, you did not hear the word'speakers' from my mouth.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u42	Didn't you say that our representative did not disagree with the Conference of Presidents? Why don't you apologize?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u43	So since you were watching from television, the word'speakers' did not hear it. In fact, we were not talking about total programming. We were talking about the bill today. That's why I'm placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u44	Your documentary's gone!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u45	Today's bill we talked about. Now, if you want to create impressions, it's your business. Here, Mr. Voridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u46	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know how such a bill has inspired prosperous positions of socialist realism to my colleague, as he fantasised the SYRIZA's trip over the next few years. Now from these provisions how you ended up in SYRIZA's stirring, it's a question mark. Let's see what these specific provisions are and what this bill is. Ladies and gentlemen, this is where it is agreed in the Chamber that this is a bill of indignation, it is a bill, which does not actually have one. This is a set of provisions, which make various arrangements and arrangements that have been outstanding for a long time. There is, of course, nothing to do with what has been described by the honourable Member, the previous speaker. Looking for whether there is something characteristic to talk about the beginning of this bill, and because this argument is already circulating to normality, let me have a little reference. The government celebrates the famous exit to the markets. So he's celebrating for what? It celebrates because in July 2017, we are right there - and a little worse in terms of spreads, in terms of differential interest rates - that we were in April 2014. You've been celebrating for three lost years. You celebrate for a cost of 14.5 billion because of these three years. That's why you celebrate. Of course, in a sense, it seems in this bill how the government perceives the return to normality. Back to normality is the return to unorthodox recruitment. It is the maintenance, worsening of hard tax, in order to follow unreasonable subsidised policies and graceful provisions to those that constitute the electoral clientele and reference of the ruling party. This is the return to normality. The return, therefore, to the worst practices which, in fact, are largely responsible for the bankruptcy of the country. That's what we're talking about. That is what we are talking about. Because I may hear from the Minister that this is a strict criticism and, if necessary, unfounded, I will become specific. So, as I said, I cannot talk about the whole bill, about its principle, because there is no such principle. But there are conclusive provisions. There are contagious provisions that give the tone. So what's going on? Article 15. How does Article 15, ladies and gentlemen? We have cases where JHA joint ventures are solved. Also, such arrangements apply to cases where municipal development operations are resolved or liquidated, and what is happening in these cases? In these cases - you can hear the wording - it says that independent of the way of recruitment, the staff who have been in them are transferred not to organic ones - in order to integrate themselves into a whole possibly necessary for the provision of their work - but to individuals who are to be abolished by retirement, so outside the municipality's establishment plan. On what condition, ladies and gentlemen? To provide real work 30-5-2011. So we're going back six years. There's a company solved. There's no time. From that moment on, perhaps, nothing has been arranged about staff and we are going to make personal positions in order to get these people settled. I have heard that it is a satisfying request from the institutions. Wouldn't it be? What should the workers want? Don't take care of it? Evidently, the workers want to be hired. And our intervention does not conflict with the workers. The question here is this. Each body expresses the public interest, expresses the municipal employment needs, expresses the needs of each municipal authority, or is this merely an irrational arrangement? It's an irrational arrangement. It's an irrational intake. It's an intake, which doesn't look at the needs of the OTAs, it's just looking at this set-up. The same is true of Article 18. Launching the recruits. We had frozen the recruitments at the municipal radio stations. They're breaking up. I ask, ladies and gentlemen. Today what the LAGs and the public need is recruitment to municipal radio stations? That's what they need, that's what is necessary, is that today's requirement? You, ladies and gentlemen, voted a month ago to tax people on a monthly income of EUR 600. You're gonna put a tax on six hundred. That's what you voted on. You voted for the pension cut of EUR 900 and EUR 1000, a month ago you did this and you come to these people, who imposed these cuts, which you imposed on them, say to them: 'You will get that, because we voted for it, but we will do the recruitment from 2011. We do not care if these people need to provide services to the public, we are interested in meeting the demands of the institutions." The same is happening, perhaps more shocking in Articles 80 and 81. Listen. Yes, sir. A competition, yes. And? One allotment decision. It has a legal issue, it is clarified in the report, how this distribution takes place. Maybe this is where he wants you to clarify something, but that's secondary. The legal persons for whom this allocation was made have now been removed or solved. There are no such legal persons. What, ladies and gentlemen, does the SAP law say? A notice for how long is it? Two years. Is that reasonable? Of course, because it is linked to the planning of the administration. It says the administration: 'I need those'. There's a competition. In these two years, the distribution must be made. If the allocation is not made, can't that be the case? Why? Because the needs of the administration have changed. That makes sense? Very. What's the bill doing here? From 1-1-2009 there are competitions. Since 2009! We're talking about 2009 allocations. Where? You're, of course, not in the organogram. Build seats for these people to go. So there's a question. The charge we are addressing you that these are unnecessarily recruits, which are of a rhysphetological character - not a rhysphetological character, I do not want to be misunderstood in the sense that you put them, etc., not this... [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] But that's not what we're saying. We never said that. Don't pay us back. You know I'm accurate to what I'm saying. I'm accurate! It is rousfetological, in the sense that you come and close the eye in this particular group, and you satisfy this particular request of the people concerned, while this does not press and makes no sense, does not serve the public interest, does not serve the interests of the public. In that sense, it's rousphetological and it really is. I come to this second bill. By the way, why did I hear numbers from the Minister in our debate, where does any restriction or number arise from us? I have repeatedly asked to speak in concrete terms. How many are we talking about? There is also something very interesting here. When you know that the Constitution requires each bill to be accompanied by a report from the General Accounting Office, which describes the financial implications, it does not mean that it is accompanied by a report from the General Accounting Office, which will not say anything, because no data have been provided to it and it will simply say: 'Yes I am making the report but I cannot tell you anything because I have no data'. The Minister comes in and says: 'But is it not accompanied by the report of the General Accounting Office?'. Yeah, he's escorted. But the General Accounting Report tells us nothing. In the two or three chapters on these matters it says: '... according to the information of the Ministry of the Interior'. It does not even say: '...which has been given to me', so that they can objectively be controlled. But that is why the General Accounting Report is being requested. For this House to know what it is voting on in terms of budgetary implications. There's no such thing. Of these forty provisions it is a question of whether there is a cost calculation in two or three. However, this is not the case. Nor can constitutional requirements be circumvented in this way, to know what we are voting on here in terms of costs. I shall then come to that, which is the policy of subsidisation. What's he doing? Three provisions on voluntary policy. Watch out. I stress this and stress it again, because it is important in the environment in which we live. I heard celebrations because unemployment has fallen. Yes, sir. Unemployment is indeed showing a decline. The internal correlation...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u47	That's good again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u48	Don't be in a hurry. You'll tell me if you're satisfied with this after. There are two issues here. First question. Have you seen the number of people leaving out, if it has increased or decreased? He's grown. Are you satisfied with this, that is, if we have a reduction in unemployment from this stream? Because there's no business here, and people go out. Does that satisfy you? Second important question. The relationship between stable and elastic work.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u49	It's better.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u50	It's worse.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u51	It's better.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u52	Don't argue with the evidence. It's worse. But listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u53	Easy, ladies.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u54	I do not mind the debate, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u55	...(not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u56	Did you see Mrs. Kosobol? He's got experience. He says to you: "Don't interrupt him." Let's go down. Is it good, then, that we are saying today about reducing unemployment, about people who have a private sector four to 200 euros? And be careful. At the same time that this is the situation on the private labour market, what do you legislate here? Benefits. What benefits? Musicians - here's what's nice! - to promote culture. If the wages paid by musicians increase by EUR 50, then we have promoted culture in Greece without a doubt! That was the argument. Two. We've got heavy and unhealthy. Yes, sir. Let's have a discussion on heavy and unhealthy. Is there a single list of heavy and unhealthy people, which should have been made by the Ministry of Labour, so that our policy can be uniform? Or Mr Skourletis will come and will say: 'I for the Otta these heavy and unhealthy'. Mr Blonde will be here tomorrow and he will say: 'I for health these heavy and unhealthy'. Everyone will have their own heavy and unhealthy policy. Is the question of heavy and unhealthy in public organised? Has this basic job been done? Oh, no. I come to the next other donor policy. Individual protection measures. Computer operators had to get milk. Yes, sir. They didn't take the milk. It's okay, we'll give it to them. Cleaning workers had to get gloves. They didn't take the gloves. It's okay, we'll give them an allowance. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, at the same time that you have imposed the taxes that you have imposed, and at the same time that there is a private labour market that is fuelling and suffering and from which you will ask for a tax. Does that make sense? Is it consistent? Is it all set up?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u57	Absolutely. And your attitude is challenging. And you call it the second and third time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u58	Minister, write down your remarks and you will answer your question on time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u59	My provocative attitude which has disturbed the Minister and caused his reactions is this: what does the Minister mean? Listen, because this is indicative of a very specific attitude and a perception and a political philosophy. What's he saying? Not all of this is within the municipality's budget. Are we increasing the general budget? Answer. If we don't raise him, what do you mind? That's what he says. I'll reverse the question. Is that what's been given for this year? Won't they be given next year? They'll be given. Are these periodic and repeated benefits?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u60	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u61	Minister, we were going fine. Don't answer. First of all, you cannot answer Mr. Voridis without my permission.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u62	You're right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u63	Secondly, we are going well and do not address the question. Through the President, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u64	All right, Mr. President. Through the President, then, I reply to the Minister: these are repetitive and periodic benefits. Musicians will receive the allowance next year. In heavy and unhealthy workers will take it next year. They therefore charge the budget of the municipalities. He says the Minister is 'yes', but there is no budget.' Of course there is. What does that mean? If, then, we have put it that this is an excess of money - why are they obviously abundant to be given, from where they are given, not falling outside - says the Minister - the budget - then why not do something else, why not save this money? Why not cut taxes on that money? Why not do this: increase the tax free with this money? But the perception is this: it's okay, because these are budgeted somewhere. If they're loaded, let's spend them. That's the perception. I am going to something else which is also challenging and scandalous and which is characterised and unconstitutional by the Scientific Committee's report and which I have mentioned to you in Article 100. Now listen here to a huge question of moral order. There was an obligation for OTA employees to provide evidence. If I have your permission, Mr President, because I see some people insist...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u65	Listen, my colleague from SYRIZA did not use the tolerance I said there would be.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u66	With your permission.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u67	With my permission, the rest of the speakers will have. It's self-evident, but I'd like a second from now on to close.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u68	Very good. What's he doing in the article 100? Municipal officials were required to transmit data to law enforcement. Whose law? Now, listen, or you're going to revolt here. The Mitsotakis Law. It's disgraceful, isn't it? Shame on you! If it's Mitsotakis' law, the employee is entitled not to apply it. In fact, when it does not apply the Mitsotakis Act, the present Minister comes at the time when disciplinary and, possibly, criminal prosecutions have been persecuted for breach of duty, i.e. the case is pending in the courts, and says what? ‘It shall be discharged. If it is the law of Mitsotakis, you don't have to."
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u69	For redundancies...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u70	So, logical sequence. Skourlets Law? Don't apply him. And the next time they don't apply him, we'll come and tell them: "Aferim, it's all right. There's no problem. Characteristic.’ Is that public administration? Beyond the unconstitutionalism which exists - because it is an interference in pending criminal proceedings, and that is therefore an infringement of the principle of separation of powers - I am saying that politically it is correct. So this bill - because it's not just these, it has provisions that allow injurious uses, it has increased fees...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u71	Finish, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u72	Mr President, I shall conclude in thirty seconds. He's got price increases. Where? - in good business. Indeed, they were reduced by the original very declining wording that existed - of course, they were reduced - but there are still 100% increases. It was 200% of the growths for businesses using water and mixing juices good businesses in your regions, colleagues, who employ people. And we're coming to this bill right now, what are you doing? On the one hand, budgetary burdens and once again, once again, increases in the burden on businesses, who employ staff and give jobs to people. So this is a bill which, in fact, reflects the return to normality, a normality which has led us to bankruptcy and a regularity that we should all normally have tried to avoid from now on. Unfortunately, Mr Skourletis is in the wrong direction as the whole of the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u73	Well, listen. There are twenty-one colleagues, as I had anticipated. At ease, with tolerance, a total of speakers, parliamentarians, Minister and colleagues - putting an hour of tolerance - it is seven hours of the sitting, which means on 5 p.m. the prototypes are over. At that time, therefore, the House can take a decision whether it will continue with the abstractions of the rapporteurs, speakers and the Minister and the Members of Parliament - who would like two to three hours - and to conclude the sitting today around 8 o'clock at night. Or if you want, respect the decision of the Conference of Presidents, which is for tomorrow morning until 3 p.m. and come tomorrow morning. I'm telling you from now on the time horizon, so you can have the time to think and make up your mind. Mr. Gregorakos has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u74	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here today, after a week, in fact, in the committee, to discuss an unspeakable bill. A bill of forty articles that, most of all, represent nothing more than a long list of ruffles, as I had said in committee, and not even covered up. We do it because we have power. We had described it as a bill from Gortsus and Mavroyaluro. We are not changing this characterisation, because we believe that this bill has in its hands a lack of plan, lack of transparency, and has not changed at all during the debate in the committee. What has changed is to add various articles above, from the infinite amendments brought by government ministers. Ladies and gentlemen, it is unprecedented to hear the facts we live in. I remember that we Members ourselves, because we have been in power for many years, as you say, are the ones who reacted when a bill came from the General Accounting Office of the State, and we did not know how much it costs the Greek people. We, therefore, because we believe that this bill is opportune, that it came, without having, in fact, been unearthed from the period of the General Accountancy and all these amendments that you have tabled, that you have passed them through the General Accounting Office, we believe that this bill should not have come to Parliament now, should have come later and been better studied. I'm saying that why? Because of the thirty-nine comments made by the WTO - ITA for this bill, the government did not accept any of them. Otherwise it is a democratic government. From some seventy observations made by the CEDEFOP, none of them accepted the Ministry and the Minister. We will continue to believe that the local government, the trade union movement, the Greek Parliament and justice, are pillars of democracy and everything that has to do with it, we will support it. If some people go to harm these four pillars, we can't be with them, we can't talk and vote with them. So you come with this bill and you say that even after three continuously injurious corporate crises, the development companies of the municipalities will continue to operate. We are not telling you the bad experience we have experienced at the time to see what is happening and what you have done is not to send us information either from the workers or from the heads. Of course we, as a state at that time, said that this vast government of Samara - Venizelos - we said that there is a state here and that some people should assume their responsibilities because they do not send information to the Ministry of the Interior. What did we do? All these officials who were pushing them not to listen to the government - you were saying 'don't send any evidence', you are the first of this - we sent them to pass the disciplinary boards, which are provided for in the disciplinary procedure. There are now five thousand outstanding disciplinary cases, which the Minister for Administrative Reform, Mrs Gerovas, has. Two and a half years has gone wrong. It cannot work out the state - and it must continue to work - when the officials themselves do not respect the laws, they do not apply the laws and the next, possibly not the government, the New Democracy, it must come and propose to the officials that they do not listen to the current government, because that will no longer be a state, it will be something else that I cannot describe. So you come and put in development companies and various other ruffles to the municipalities, because you're trying to find allies in local government. You couldn't do anything last time. You have few mayors, few powers in local government. So you want to get an end to local self-government, and that is what you are trying to do with this bill and the next bill you are talking about 'Kalikarati', as the majority rapporteur said. I, ladies and gentlemen, see that after two and a half years, your group has not abandoned toys with the institutions, the Constitution, the laws, when some come on television and talk about'moved currency', which you believed. Another Minister speaks to you with isovites. You're not talking at all. None of you. You're not taking a position. Few people do it. You whistle indifferently, like you don't exist. If someone were to tell me years ago that the new and incorruptible Mr. Tsipras would co-operate with the President of the Ice Bay and the former head of the EPA, who has made him a minister - unprecedented in the world's time I believe - I would say that this is a very big joke. However, we have seen these days and the visit of the legal adviser of the Prime Minister, the former President of the Ice Arena, to visit the Mrs. Prosecutor of the Ice Arena. I didn't believe it. Unfortunately, however, it is a reality. All of this, ladies and gentlemen, we did not make it up to them. No one's a provocator. No one is a left-wing underminer. They are facts that are disgusting to you, because the only belief of truth is the actions and all that I have said to you, they are actions. I, therefore, remember the great philosophies of the Left, Florakis, Kyrkos, Pharakos, Papayannakis, Yannaro. We coexist with these people. We might have been divorced a lot. Too many of us were divorced! But know that their spirit and commitment to the principles and values of the Left made them respectful to us and we respected them all of the parties of this House and all the parties of this House. So if you have copied only the bad ones, which we at least do not want again, you can prove that you have been very eroded. I do not hide from you that the effect of power on you was very charming and very catalytic to bring such a bill to the vote. Not that he doesn't have good evidence. It has good information, which we will highlight in our dentistry and in the debate on the subject. We cannot, however, go to such a philosophy and vote on the bill, which is full of populism and rumours. I knew that a large and multi-collectional party would naturally have all the thorns and flowers inside it. But you know that all this blooms in party habitats, because there have always been customers' dependencies. These were a very hesitationfulness of the governments of the country. Some of us even considered the state as a spoil. That was a mistake. It turns out wrong about the place. But you're making the same mistake, too. You made so many mistakes in two and a half years and no self-criticism. I therefore believe that the AACC was a major reform and you are now bringing people who had been through the AACC in 2009, with the need to appoint them. The setting-up of the 'CALCONTRIAT', 'GENERAL', 'OpenGov', the civil service centres were major reforms. However, various governments have come and all of this has weakened the original philosophy of the reforms. So we must all again, if we want this country to go forward and reoperate, bring back the original philosophy of these legislation. What we've taken with the original laws, we'll have to reinstate it carefully. We must also have an evolutionary process, of course, to assess the laws. Yes, bring 'Kalikarat', but bring him in the positive direction, and talk about it. All his mistakes, correct them by unanimity. Here we go. We don't remain stricken and cling to old, possibly bad choices. We must not, therefore, increase the cost of public spending. Because today, with this bill, you are increasing public spending. The draft law, therefore, which we are debating today, really, is a culmination of the philosophical rule. It is not at its heart to solve major problems of the country and of the economy. Your only concern is to maintain what you have. I say to you that the roséets, the customer relations, the party domination, the eating and the blow of the institutions confirm the lost moral advantage of the Left. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, it seems to have been very worn out. But I cannot comment on the topicality of what happened yesterday and the other day, because politics is the management of everyday life, of topicality and of human relations. To rinse the responsibilities of the period 2004-2009, you prefer the humiliation of justice, relinquishing George back again. You are, however, the ones who in the third memorial - with slavery in fact - have had to humiliately ensure that Georgios is discharged, which many of you were leading at that time and, of course, you have dulled that this was a fictitiously expanded deficit. So you kept a myth that we all have to decide what it was at some point. Was the deficit so bad and we got the debt so bad or wasn't the deficit so bad and we got more money? So since we have taken more money, our economy has to go forward, or we have to return the money. At some point the Greek Parliament will have to decide. Unless, behind all this process and logic, there is something we need to hide or something we do not want to discuss. So you went out on the markets yesterday and today we have a triumph of government after 2014. We're not petty. Well done for this effort. What we are interested in is how the country will move forward. And we are interested in that and we have shown it. We put our breasts, our backs ahead, not our personal ambitions. We put the country forward and not ourselves. But the point is how we all have to be realistic. Is he really a triumph last night? Was there even a small improvement on the basis of the current much better data in the euro area? Because another is 2014 and another in 2017. The answer is unequivocally no." If we monitor the actual statistics, we will see that Greece was borrowed in 2014 with a spread of 435 basis points, and today it is borrowed with 481 base points, which is more expensive than that because Germany was lending for the respective bond with a yield plus 0,6 in 2014, and it is now borrowing with a negative yield of 0,18. Make the differences. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a success, especially when it falls short of the attempt made at the Government of Samaras - Venizelos, which you all described at the time - with the Prime Minister first and Mr Lafazanis - as the absolute failure of the government and as a fiasco for the Greek economy. "To the theatrical performance and theatrical party." That's what you said then. That's what Mr. Tsipras said. I remember them. I haven't eaten lotus. Ladies and gentlemen, on the one hand, you cannot tax hard on all citizens and pensioners, have dried up the market and suddenly start giving some crumbs to some workers for voting reasons. Once again strengthen social and income inequality. You do the same with the JHA. Well, Articles 1 to 14. However, with regard to JHA, one JHA with the other has a different wage base, different allowances. Why don't you have it all together? Why should Athens, Thessaloniki, Patras and other cities be different from Sparta, from Sitia, from Serres? The country, ladies and gentlemen, is not just in heat conditions. It watches the oramad of the revelations about the dangerous works of a group of unrelevant, unrelated, presumptuous and, above all, amoral people. In the modern political history of the country, except for the ridiculous colonists of the junta, we will not find any more peculiar faces, have taken on government responsibility. Now that the masks have fallen, the real face of a fatal and ruthless team, who did everything to find himself at the helm of power is revealed. He smuggled us, smuggled us, threw us oranges, threw us lemons, threw us everything there was and there wasn't, so he could conquer power. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece, unfortunately, has a group that has no bottom nor top. The revelations about the torment of the drop of Yiannis Varoufakis leave everyone speechless. And the voters of SYRIZA are in shock. They can't believe the size of the deception they've suffered. Most of all, it is what we read and hear these days that are humiliating the country. They show it as a country, which has really nothing, is a banana. However, apart from the dispersion suffered by the place, there is something worse. The economic cost of the foreign choices of Varoufakis and Tsipras, in the first half, cost us 100 billion. This fact you should know that it is not only deleted from the House and from the Greeks but also from the global economic history. It will haunt us as a country and haunt the politicians who have made such decisions, no matter how long this process takes. Although I have never believed in your superficial and out-of-real strategies, it has not been very few times that I thought that your presence in the governance of the country - I say it as self-critic - might help you to understand that it is not meant to be conducting out of reality. Sadly, though, I fell out. Your adaptation to the world of logic is really impossible. You still live in your own universe. You come here and you're talking about the Left. For who Left? Is it left, what you are expressing today in the Greek Parliament and in the Greek society? Do you have any purpose? Do you have any target? Have you served one of what the Left itself had on her morale? Your amoralism has no limits. In order to enjoy the posts and privileges of power, you accept all and sign them all. My fellow Members who were in PASOK and are now with you, do not even see them in Parliament. They used to lie outside with the sun. Rejoice them! Ladies and gentlemen, to conclude, I would like to say that it is more than clear that the system that the country has today is disastrous. He's trying to control everything. The distinction of powers for you does not exist. For you power is one and only your authority. The media, journalists, political persons and Members who dare to express a different opinion from you and criticise the facts of the government are part of a systemic caste. Last week I received bowling from your party front page form. I said something different. There are no different views in this Greece of great democracy! This is where we deal with a global originality. To be considered as antisystemic means of means to the government. The only valid and endless instrument, which is with you, is the state ERT. He's making statues, he's making drums, he's making four days of party, some who pay for them. The only one missing is your party Gaulier behind the cameras. Although I don't think he's missing. So, in this attitude, ladies and gentlemen, how can you tolerate the independence of justice? After you tried to control her by advancing her leadership, you passed the frontal assault. Besides, the Prime Minister himself gave the signal, talking about institutional obstacles. According to Aristotle, political developments have value when they prove they are inspired by political virtue. If the policy is to function in the general interest, the justice measure must be a constant concern. We have to support justice all the time. We must criticise her, but always this criticism is within the institutions. Inevitably, therefore, it is also critical, since all citizens must enjoy the goods and functions of public services. What is distorted or unfair has happened in the past cannot be an argument for state and self-government functions and is not a reason for today's or tomorrow's actions. You go to the show and say, "And what did you do yesterday? You did the same." But is that a argument? Because once we did something, you have to do it, too? We've been judged! We therefore do not go to clearing situations. We will be here to criticise you, because that is our role. That is what Parliament is demanding and the principle of counter-population. Whether it is moral, then, to deceive OTA contractors, while you know that decisions and extensions are contrary to the Constitution and the Court of Auditors, which has no right to legalise expenditure, which is obviously the result of illegal recruitment by the mayors. If extensions were given, why did the contractors cover standing and constant needs, why did the government not call for a tender and why did they not demand it and insist that the mayors - why did the mayors not demand it? - contractors who want to keep their jobs are right, ensuring their basics for their survival. They're the last contractors to blame for everything that's done. It is therefore reasonable to ask the citizens. Where do the exercisers get the right, at any level, not to apply the laws and do not respect the Constitution? These behaviours remove citizens from politics. So I don't get anything from what I said. You are the ultimate example of the customer perception. You do not want the public to provide quality services or to play its development role. You want a public who manipulates and achieves your unlawful goals. The creation of a government system in the media - these days we are discussing the relevant bill - the absolution of justice and the control of the state mechanism by appointing party landlords - are considered by the Tsipras Government to be essential conditions, so that, at the same time as the government, they can understand the much-neededed power. If I remember correctly, Paulakis said it four months ago in a speech in Aigaleo: "We have not yet understood power. When we understand it, you will see what you have to do with it!" Power is a punisher of the citizen according to the perception of some not ours. Power is the citizen's servant. He who exercises authority should first of all understand and go down to the citizen's place. At the same time as Mr. Paulakis said, Mr. Tsipras, trying to show the image of a so-called self-critic toward the outside in an interview with the British “GUARDIAN”, he proceeded with a useless admission. He admitted he made big mistakes! As he stated: "When I came to this office, I did not have the experience or sense, how great the daily difficulties will be," he added: "I have made mistakes, great mistakes in choosing people in positions". Why did the Greek people, dear Prime Minister, dear Mr. Tsipras, pay your mistakes? The people owe none of us anything. We owe him!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u75	You must finish, Mr. Gregoraco.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u76	I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u77	You have given five more minutes, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u78	If you need time, Mrs. Zaroulia, your speaker will have too. I said it all along.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u79	The Prime Minister and the government, ladies and gentlemen, have responsibilities. It takes a lot of work to do the Prime Minister. You have come to learn to rule on the back of a tired and afflicted Greek people, who yourself had contributed to his suffering by feeding him rocked rabbits. Your mistakes are devastating for the country, society, the economy and the political system. Greece should remain high in the consciousness of Greeks and European citizens. There is no solution to the big problems of the country by circumventing the Constitution. You're with your back on the wall. As much as you've been trying to make fun of the Greek people once again with the horn of ten bills in the last ten days, all these bills have the main feature of populism and idealism, you won't be able to convince anyone. You'll fall into the pit you've opened yourself. I understand your embarrassment, I understand that the revelations bucket will take you along, but your insistence to remain in the government is stacking devastated deadlocks for the country. The only decent solution is to appeal to the elections. Reconcile - time runs - with your complete failure and open the way to appeal to the popular verdict. Otherwise, the slow death you choose will break you even further. We cannot vote on such a bill that finds all the things I have described earlier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u80	The special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Mr Evangelos Karakostas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u81	Since the beginning of the discussion of this draft law in the committee responsible, we have described it as a rhetoric, a designation which we insist on and after the completion of the committee's meetings and the introduction of it to plenary. In addition to all others, however, this bill highlights the deep hypocrisy of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, which has voted for two memorials with extremely tough measures for the Greek people, and even argues that it has done so with a heavy heart and that it will be implemented with social care. It is precisely here that we must insist - in other words, on the social sign - that, where it is concerned, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government can dress up in the cloak of the revolution. What I mean I'll explain it to you right away. The Government of SYRIZA - ANEL has voted for the Memorandum of Integration's commitment to every four withdrawals from the State for 2017. For 2018 and provided that budgetary targets are met, that ratio will be converted into one intake for each three departures. I repeat that this is a Memorandum of Understanding which the SYRIZA - ANEL Government has voted with heavy heart! But let's go see what Article 18 of that bill provides for. The suspension of recruitment of staff shall be abolished, with any employment relationship in municipal radio or television stations. What does that practically mean? It means that it opens not a window but a balcony door to new recruits of party friends in violation of your Memorandum commitment. In order to prevent those state-run and entrenched leftists, who will seek to disorientate public opinion, putting the blanching and inappropriate argument, "Is that the Golden Dawn is in favour of the Memorandum commitments?", I will ask questions to the junta of the Memorandum, which is dominated and proclaimed, in fact, that it is dominated by a classic and social sign. Why, then, did the government not deviate its memorial obligations on matters relating to farmers? Why did the government not deviate from its Memorandumary Obligations, in matters relating to freelance professionals, slavery contracts - and not work - private workers, pensioners? The answer is clear. Because all the above categories do not constitute the party base of SYRIZA, which is no more than the public and to be more precise than the customer state. During the debate in the committee and in order to prevent rumours on the basis of this draft law, the rapporteur of the government majority accused New Democracy and the PASOK, of ruptured and urban recruitment in the past. Golden Dawn fully agrees with the point, of course, that the majority of SYRIZA Members and officials who are civil servants have been appointed for PASOK days. Evidently, then, they themselves denounce their appointments. This is a positive step and we welcome it. On the other hand, New Democracy and PASOK accused the SYRIZA Government - ANEL of expanding the party state which they have created by attempting to recruit the public sector. Golden Dawn also agrees with them, with the labelling, of course, of the acceptance by PASOK and New Democracy of their total responsibility until 2015 for teratogenicity, which is called a client state and is one of the main causes of the current economic situation in which our country is located. A customer state, therefore, has a PASOK and New Democracy seal and now a SYRIZA and ANEL stamp. The draft law under way gives a very nice picture to explain to someone what the client state is. It is a customer state that the government refuses to grant pensions to our fellow citizens who have guaranteed a right and have submitted the necessary supporting documents for at least two years. 'And why does he deny?' One will ask and we will answer him: 'Do you see any other way that the junta of the Memorandum can show a surplus?' The government, which refuses to grant pensions, will therefore vote for the payment of compensation for the anti-corporate and compensation for the participants in municipal councils, while the bill provides for expenditure on the movement of counter-regions and regional councillors. And does the magnanimity of the Left stop there? Oh, no. The left are people of art and culture, and that is why the musicians of the municipalities will receive a monthly allowance of 50 euros. It is a customer state that they put a lock on the private sector, i.e. one firm after another, to stay unemployed thousands of Greeks and Greeks, but the SYRIZA - ANEL government stipulates that multi-participating OTA companies continue to operate even if they have three continuously injurious corporate uses and the company's participation in a national or European programme is a practical demonstration of the company's solvency and credibility as an extroverted development mechanism for local government, as well as its ability to successfully meet its financial needs and financial obligations. Furthermore, it should legislate that local theatres, even if they present three continuously injurious corporate uses two years after their establishment or own funds, are reduced to less than 50% of the share capital, they should continue to operate and be treated in a particular way in order to continue the uninterrupted exercise of their spiritual role as cultural centres. This provision is a follow-up to the one that was voted on a day ago on the basis of which artistic directors will be recruited or recruited in DPRK, without the need to hold a higher education qualification. Instead of trying to make a vain attempt to convince us that your bill is not ruptured, make sure you convince the Greek society, at least one and a half million unemployed, the new recruits who work very hard to get 400 euros a month, the free professionals you are horrificly extinct, the farmers you are trying to break out of their land, the pensioners whose pensions you are cutting, to build the myth of the primary surplus, for which you are committed to your international bosses first by 2022 and then by 2060. We made it quite clear to you at the committee meeting, and we are telling you now. The primary surplus for which with exaggerated arrogant pride you are, is the blood of the Greek people, which is slavely and simply offered at the disposal of the loan sharks. It's the product of our compatriots' unfair and hard-core taxation. It is the product of the robbery that the Memorandum Status holds to the citizens by not awarding their debts to them. It is the product of the catalyst of the social state only for Greeks, because for illegal immigrants and others, it is supposed, vulnerable to the social and humanitarian state lives and reigns, having even become a highly profitable business for your many partners. Finally, it is the product of the complete dissolution of the public health of hospitals throughout the country, the product of the targeted target targeting of armed forces and security forces. What's the target? For these are not included in your client state, and that is why you and your propaganda mechanisms aim both at you and the release of your Bolshevik hatred with press releases: "More than 50% of the police vote Golden Dawn" or "Very high percentage of Armed Forces officers and officers vote Gold Dawn". You did not tell us, however, that you forgot or did what the vast majority of the tax people voted for, what the overwhelming majority of the appointed teachers and teachers voted for, what the majority of the employees in the Otta and the employees in DPRK voted for, what the overwhelming majority of your "Soviet" ERT officials and employees voted for. There you are not making a leeway because it is precisely your clientele state, which is not just a maintenance but also an expansion of it in a way. This is the famous social sign of your Government, where a social sign at war and the appointments of your children and party patrons. With the money of the Greek taxpayers you are very boxers to specific always specific charges. But when it comes to your own money, your false socialism goes for a walk and you forget to say a couple of million in tax. While an increasingly growing part of our compatriots is being thrown into impoverishment, the concern of the left-wing government and of course of the false Christian patriots ANEL is the creation of incineration centers of the dead, with the provocative majority of the Greeks mentioning the explanatory statement that the legislator intends to contribute to a progressive perception of things, demanding in any case by modern reality. It is, of course, no modern reality that requires the establishment of a so-called progressive perception of things, but it is undoubtedly your collective hatred towards Orthodox Christian faith and then the service of specific economic interests, which will, of course, emerge after the vote on this provision. In addition, in the midst of your impotence for our compatriots, the Left Government is always with the Yankian nationalists of ANELs burned for the creation of a Special Secretariat of Citizenship, because the hosts of the government are illegal immigrants, not only are forced by the democratic arch to settle on a permanent basis in Greece but they are also provided as a gift to Greek citizenship. Of course along with your anti-national hatred, you take care to do business, as in the case of hot spot assignments, so make your children and party praetors comfortable at this special secretariat. Trump is for you, the Greek people pay for your falsely mankind. In conclusion, we have shown with overwhelming arguments the fact that this draft law is rheumatological and is a growing customer state of SYRIZA - ANEL. It is no coincidence that the percentages of the Golden Dawn to civil servants are extremely limited. On the contrary, the movement of the Greek nationalists enjoys the appreciation, support and trust of the poor people's strata, i.e. it has resonance and influence on those who have been most affected by the memoranda and on the substance of it, whether you like it or not, the wide range of non-preferential Greeks. How, though, is it interpreted that this undeniably wide range of non-preferentials is not reflected in elections? Two are the main factors leading to this. Firstly, a part of the non-preferential Greeks is deceived by the political system and the mediator in order to believe that his interests are identified with the interests of corrupt pluralism. Whenever the propaganda fails to identify interests, political terrorism is unleashed with false horror. Secondly - and most importantly - it is the abstention of the elections, which is the greatest possible aid to the rotting regime, since its choice is, in contrast to this regime, but is not a position. The unconsciousness on the part of the non-preferentials of their power is the largest weapon for the customer state, as it enables him not only to maintain but also to extend its provocative privileges. The client state gains an even greater political influence, dismantling any prospect of awe-inspiring and thus a potential threat to its existence. I firmly believe that the corrosive role of the client state will increasingly emerge over time. But suffering is not going to disappear or even be limited if our non-preferential compatriots do not realize that they can make a crucial contribution to tackling them. That is why Golden Dawn considers it a social necessity to break down the client's state and therefore we address a call to our non-preferential compatriots to support Golden Dawn to finally get rid of this carcinoma. Of course we are voting against this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u82	Mr Emmanuel Syntakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr President. The draft law of the Ministry of Interior consists of four modules and more than one hundred fifty articles with the integrated amendments. It is debated with a wide range of pending cases in Ottawa, which are regulatory provisions, but which are necessary for the urban state to go through in the next phase of its reactionary modernisations, including in the revision of the 'CALICRATES' at the request of the European Union, creditors and large capital. It's a draft law embedded in the strategic choices of capital. After all, the strategic demand of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government and the other parts of the Euromoney - is to implement a multi-level governance so that local government - in fact, local administration - acquire operational, management, institutional competence, be the structures of economic and administrative self-government units and as partners of the other levels of administration of the country have a role to play, that is to say, in capitalist development, to facilitate and strengthen it. What is this strategy to which the other parties on the Euromono street agree? Firstly, it recommends the multi-faceted strengthening of local administration structures with characteristics of competitive businesses, which will leave no possibility of operational action in their region, from mountains and seas to renewable energy sources to anything that each has. Secondly, it is a search for new tax-driven mechanisms, legitimisation of old instruments through local administration, transfer of new tax burdens on the backs of popular households. In addition, the present draft law provides for the upgrading of the operational capacity of the municipalities in the collection of own revenues. All the possibilities for recovering the debts of the people's layers, which are in crisis, are being exhausted. Thirdly, it is a link with European institutions and bodies to facilitate the operational action and overall European Union planning within each country, but even more so the common design between regions and countries of the European Union. The European Territorial Cooperation Groups, which form the third part of the draft law, are moving in this direction. Fourthly, it recommends promoting the so-called social economy, NGOs, the Commonwealth of Independents, networks and cooperatives of people, with the guise of public participation in dealing with unemployment, self-management of firms in difficulty. Old tested and failed recipes of capitalism that are now adopted by opportunists in a process of integration of popular consciences. Fifthly, it recommends facilitating the LAGs to use different financial instruments, attracting investment and pooling resources, simplifying the procedures for private entry to services and works by either concessions or PPPs or by direct awards. Sixth, it recommends the merchandise of social goods such as water, water, and irrigation, primary health care, pre-school education, care of the elderly, people with disabilities and others. Seventh, it recommends the generalization of flexible labour relations by overturning the proportion of permanent and elastic workers, at the expense of the former, by further reducing wage costs, by creating a new generation of enclaved workers in life expectancy with hunger wages, which will lead to the level of so-called social solidarity income, and pensions after sixty-seven. Ladies and gentlemen, at all four meetings of the committee responsible for the draft law under discussion, the confrontation between SYRIZA - ANEL, New Democracy, PASOK and Potami focused on secondary issues of provisions rather than on its core. They valued the range of provisions, their complexity and their management logic, the photographic provisions, in order to avoid being exposed to workers' eyes for their strategic consensuality for capitalist development, which they seek in the Memorandums and over six hundred implementing laws that they have voted and bound them up with. More specifically, I will mention how this strategic consensus is expressed in all four parts of the draft law and determines in many respects its vote on the JRC in principle, even if in individual articles we vote positively or presently. The first part concerns the arrangements for modernising the institutional framework for the organisation and operation of municipal water and sewerage operations in Articles 1 to 14. The parties to the Euromono street do not disagree with the Community framework directive on water, on which Articles 1 to 11 of the first part move, which we are voting against. They aim, despite the attempt to hide, to facilitate the award procedure to the capital of water management and irrigation. Both the previous and the existing legislation covers all the water supply projects and services that can be entrusted by the JHA to private individuals. In addition to the traditional object of water supply and sewage disposal, the study, construction, maintenance, operation, management and operation of water treatment works, water treatment works, water transmission networks, sewerage and sewage treatment plants and remnants of their area of competence are now mandatory. Within the scope of the extension of the object, they shall be covered in their entirety by a detailed reference to the range of invoices, to the objects of district heating, natural gas, bottling and marketing of water, irrigation and management, use and marketing of renewable energy sources. These are objects which will obviously be awarded to the capital for profitable exploitation, with additional carpets, at the expense of the people's strata. Primary place in these carpets has the environmental charge, which is charged to the end user, i.e. the folk family, and double the poor farms, as it concerns water supply and irrigation, paid with the water cubic that is consumed and made up of two individual carpets, environmental costs and resource costs. It should not seem far away from the scenario to be institutionalised in the process - in accordance with the principle of cost recovery - and the air we breathe. In the above context, JHA should form their pricing policy, in accordance with the principle of the recovery of water costs laid down in that Directive and the corresponding national legislation. At the same time, the object of JHA is to participate in organised and institutionalised schemes, i.e. organs for the formulation and exercise of the country's aqueous policy, in order that through their active involvement in the mobilisation of the new folk income tax system, they may become consistent tax escapists of the above characters. In addition, in the wording of Articles 5 and 6 of the draft law, the permanent collection of the special fee of 80%, as a fixed revenue for the study, construction and expansion of water and sewerage projects, is, in fact, legalised in 1980, in order to transfer the sole responsibility that the State must have for the construction of new projects to consumers. How many, though, JHA will decide to suspend or reduce 80% when all have reduced revenues in relation to real needs? In fact, this charge is collected and attributed to the operational costs of the undertakings, which is why it is expressly stated that the administrations that did not use the fee for the actual purpose are exempted from any responsibility, i.e. for new projects. We are voting on Articles 12 and 13. Article 13 applies to workers, i.e. it settles JHA labour issues, although you have excluded the workers of Heraklion who were fired and worked in the effluent and in the Organic. In Article 14 we are voting 'Paris'. In the second part, which concerns Articles 15 to 107, issues relating to the organisation, management and outstanding work issues in the LAGs, in our view, and these are integrated in the wake of reactionary restructuring in the local administration. The parties of the Euromono street do not disagree with the generalization of flexible labour relations or with the reciprocity, administrative and financial autonomy of services, structures and responsibilities, which, in combination with the economic strangulation of OTAs by the central state, are preparing for greater taxation of people's income on forced receipts, even with seizures or blockages of bills for debt in the municipality. After all, many municipalities have already proceeded with such procedures. The introduction of fines to self-employed, small and medium-sized enterprises, while at the same time leaving banks, major hotel units, industrial enterprises, and the granting of sanctuaries, beaches and public areas to private individuals for exploitation. You agree that the Euromoney parties, the Economic Observatory and the Balanced Budgets, the reactionary reforms in public administration and in the OTAs, the evaluation, the Community that lead to redundancies and the abolition of organic positions and objects. Any positive provisions for workers, such as the rehabilitation of workers in JHA, the transfer of workers to municipalities, in the event of a solution to OTA operations, the appointment of AIPs successful, the coverage of organic positions from the provisional AIP tables and other cases are fragmentary, such as provisions on personal protective equipment, because they are not granted to everyone and do not solve the problem of sub-sistence. The same applies, of course, to the allowance for unhealthy work, while leaving out the TAs second degree, namely the workers of the regions and the decentralised administrations. For musicians and PPCs itself, or for provisions containing both positive and negative provisions, or giving the impression of a positive measure, but conceal evils such as providing incentives to workers from border and island regions, which effectively transfers the responsibility of the State to small municipalities, assigning tasks to regional units of islands, by charging employees with more objects and by moving out of the home. The allowance for dangerous unhealthy work, such as the escalation of the allowance, also determines the harmlessness of a job. This concerned the cases of personal protective equipment and the allowance for unhealthy work. All the above positive arrangements are lost in front of the volcano of labour, wage problems, which have arisen from the policy of the previous governments and which the present one continues. The main is recruitment of permanent staff, ladies and gentlemen. And this problem remains unresolved. The Government, faithfully committed to friends and partners and to agreements between them, does not remove the prohibition of recruitment of permanent staff to the LGBT and does not plan such procedures and funds in order to address the tragic subsidization of municipalities and regions. Another important section of the arrangements in the draft law concerns strengthening the capacity of the municipalities to collect the so-called own taxes. It meets a stable anti-grass demand of the CEDEFOP, a European Union mayor, an objective which is reflected in the medium term, on the basis of which the same revenue is sought in the municipalities to take off more than EUR 600 million, at the same time as the establishment of state funding at the current level, which has exceeded 60%, while not taking measures to relieve the unemployed, the vulnerable social groups. The government, in order to gold the pill, is supposed to have debts on the municipalities under Article 52, importing hundreds of doses. In fact, he is provoking it, and he thinks it is a breath for households. As much as it appears to some small- and medium-sized ones as a breath, since they are already surrounded by the economic disaster and the tax attack of a state and banks, they will sooner or later be ahead, not to threaten the confiscation by the municipalities, but to the confiscation itself. It is also characteristic through the same provision that municipalities wish to join the central tax levers of the state. For example, with Article 65, the Government facilitates the identification and cross-checking of assets and income through the state tax evasion mechanisms and other control mechanisms - data from DUs, Stock Exchanges, energy providers - in order to eliminate any possibility of collecting own taxes and the municipalities becoming more efficient tax-sharing mechanisms at local level, instead of allowing municipal councils, even if potentially, at the request of the municipalities, to exempt those citizens who under certain conditions prove that they are unreported, unemployed, belonging to vulnerable groups, are people with disabilities, multiples, three-tiers and concerned with fines, increments and capital. There are proposals for Municipalities and Mayors - Patras, Kessariani, Ikaria, Petropolis, Haidari - once a citizen is regulated from one to a hundred instalments, the public may be relieved of 100% of interest and increments. To put a limit on the debts. It could, for example, be 50 thousand euros. Also, those with a debt of over 50 thousand euros stay the same. We distinguish those who have and systematically try with their arsenal and legally not to pay. Who are they? Advertising companies, hoteliers, nightclubs, owners of large real estate. Many municipalities owe 50% and more of the debts. In Patras, for example, out of 53,800,000 euros, 200,000 are due by people who owe more than 50,000 euros. These are the cases that I mentioned earlier. In Heraklion, from EUR 162 million in total debts, capital and surcharges, the debts of more than EUR 50,000 - four hundred and ten persons in a total of ninety-six thousand - are due to EUR 94,000, that is, 58% of the total debt. We are struggling, ladies and gentlemen, for those who owe little and come from poor folk. In the third part of the draft law, Articles 108 to 112, on the redefinition of the institutional framework of the European Territorial Cooperation Groups, I will not say much, because I do not have time. We will be given the opportunity to place ourselves on second. It is a very important issue, which is related to the Treaty of Lisbon, the European Union's cohesion policy and regional development, which has become very little talk and deliberately, because all the Euromono street parties agree with the European Territorial Cooperation Groups, which in essence enables regions directly with the European Union and monopolistic groups to make use of European funding for projects and services. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, and in view of what it serves or is looking forward to this draft law, which the JRC is voting against in the first place, a very big question arises: Who is this SYRIZA - ANEL government finally working for? For the vast majority, which is the working class, the poor sections of the city and the village, or on behalf of a cloak of pluralists, with the aim of strengthening the competitiveness of their business groups, issuing them through the local government bodies, so as to ensure that their profits are increased and with a urban state, which will be the best guarantee of this development. Obviously, those who currently possess the means of production, capitalists, that is, the parasites of society, thirst for people's blood, whether by means of budget restrictions or by means of imperialist wars, as is happening in our neighbourhood, with the blessings of the SYRIZA - ANEL co-government, NATO, the United States, and the European Union. Today, SYRIZA calls it "progressive modernisation". The JRC calls it a capitalist developmental path. SYRIZA misleads the people with the slogan "in the midst of capitalism man over profits". The JRC, without delusion and with clear reason, sends an anti-capitalist, anti-monopoly call to overthrow the power of the capital of its political staff of any colour...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u84	Finish it, Mr. Synergy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u85	I shall conclude, Mr President. The rotting of the unequal exploitation system, neither the cologne of urban reforms, nor the visions of combating interoperableness and transparency, nor the guards to distinguish powers, can hide it or distribute it. Only the struggle for the new workers' socialist power with central planning, national, local, socially-based, socially-based capitalist businesses, with labour control from the bottom to the bottom, the irresponsibility of the hereditaries to the organs of the people's power and the fulfilment of modern needs can ensure that these are satisfied for permanent and stable work, for the education of young people, for free medical care, for the right to the roof, on holidays, for the dismantling of human beings. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u86	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way the House organizes and operates, nineteen refugees trained in Greek. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We move on to the special speaker of the Independent Greeks, Mr Konstantinos Katsikis. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like you to allow me to express my political satisfaction, because the first time in a draft law was such a broad social consensus. Institutions with a serious and sense of responsibility have, I believe, contributed substantially to the formation of our final position. The number of speakers for this draft law shows the importance of this legislation. The seriousness with which the government surrounded it became apparent through the exhaustive consultation of the institutional representatives of the local authorities and through the systematic preparation of all the structural aspects of the institutional framework of local government. The need to change and modernise the existing provisions by which local government is trying to operate has been found to be numerous times, both by those responsible for their implementation and by those in charge of their results. The acceptance by the society of changes and reforms promoted by the SYRIZA Government - ANEL appreciates its work positively. It is a sign of parliamentary and political honesty that consensus on self-evident, ladies and gentlemen. You're reacting to the legalisation of procedures that should have taken place years ago. Citizens now trust those political forces that have a proposal. The tactics 'I stand and denounce' have gone unreturned. What is bothering you, ladies and gentlemen of counter-population? Our attempt to restore local self-government to sustainable rates from the coma situation in which you have led it? You know, there's a group of people who hate others, not because they've done something wrong, but because they've done something better than them. That's what's happened to you. It's not tolerated by you as well as by someone else. However, this is the best thing to do with the lives of millions of people who trusted us with its management and discounts in this management, I assure you that we will never. I consider this draft law to be one of the most comprehensive ones submitted to Parliament and with an extremely human face. Infinite issues that arise in everyday life make it imperative to deal with them. Top case of a necessary review of specific aspects of their institutional framework of operation is the case of municipal water and sewerage operations. The current needs of society in terms of the management and use of the most important natural public goods, namely water, require the organisational and operational upgrading of municipal water and sewerage operations. This is pursued through the first fourteen articles of this draft law. The environmental, social, economic and development importance of the projects falling within the scope of the activities of municipal water and sewerage operations makes it necessary to establish arrangements that will provide development prospects for municipal water and sewerage enterprises, making investment tools and not simple project managers. The provision of the delegation of powers to the Governing Council of each JHA to take decisions on the settlement of consumer debt to them shall be equivalent to the social mission they have. As the primary concern of the present government is to protect the sacred right to work, it could not be absent from the draft law under discussion. Therefore, in the first chapter of Part Two, in addition to clarifying Article 109 of Law 3852/2010, on the issue of covering the damage resulting from the merger of public-owned undertakings of TAs or municipal water and sewerage companies and taking over their activities by the municipality concerned, special attention shall be paid to their staff, transferred to the relevant body and classified in individual positions, corresponding to their typical qualifications. Here too, let me make a comment, because it has been heard before by the rapporteur for Officerial Representation that these personal positions should not be created and, in particular, that they should not be created, because they will sometimes be abolished, because those who serve them will sometime retire. And I ask: Those who are currently working on water and sewerage companies, which are now being solved or run, by the local authorities, should not, together with their enterprises and their administration, be taken over by the workers, who have so far worked in these companies and have the work experience, which gives them the right to be more effective and effective in others' work? With the legislative improvement proposed in paragraph 2 of Article 15, I believe that one, of course, is being corrected and a possible unequal treatment is lifted between workers. I would like, ladies and gentlemen, to refer a little more to the third part of this draft law, in particular to Articles 108 and 114, which regulate issues relating to the institutional and political framework of the territorial political cooperation and the European groups in this cooperation. The form of the establishment of the European Groupings of Territorial Cooperation as non-profit companies, Article 108, that is to say, the detailed illustration and description of their activities, Article 109, makes their role crucial and transparent in strengthening the territorial, social and economic cohesion of the regions of the European Union. Their ability, in paragraph 2 of Article, to conclude programme contracts shall facilitate the achievement of their public interests. The non-recognition of this possibility to the European Groupings of Territorial Cooperation, which are legally part of the public interest organisations, has prevented them from operating and has reversed their mission, which, among other things, is the implementation of cohesion projects, particularly through transnational, cross-border and interregional cooperation. The management audits which are intended to act in the European Territorial Cooperation Groups, in accordance with internationally accepted auditing standards, shall reflect the Government's intention of fully transparent these bodies, that is, Article 113. It would be unreasonable to close this position without mentioning the rules for workers resulting from the provisions of Article 137. This article regulates issues relating to the service of workers in the former Ministry of Civil Protection, in particular with the proposed regulation, the provisional transfer of the Special Account of L.826/1978 concerning the Hellenic Spatial Assistance Fund in the field of Police Welfare and Welfare Fund for Security Bodies, with a view to the adoption of such a arrangement within a year of the adoption of an application and subsequently to be put into liquidation and dismantling. Any chapter resulting from the liquidation and any assets of the Special Account shall be transferred to the Special Account for Police and Political Persons referred to in Article 31 of Law 2168/1993, which shall serve the same purpose as the account being dismantled, i.e. the financial support of their unreliable colleagues, in the context of the principles of solidarity, co-responsibility and social sensitivity. Our objection, ladies and gentlemen, to Article 133, which has been raised again by friends of the media who are coming to you as a breach on the part of partners, a headache - allegedly - to the government and other fanatical - is nothing but costing and conscientious to our principles of Christian doctrine. The fact that our views are not entirely consistent with the views of the converging Party shows the greatness of cooperation. "Cooperative" does not mean degrading, it does not mean depleting and absorbing. It means, I maintain my bluntness, I maintain my selfishness and I work together with different political views to benefit citizens and state. And that is what people are doing, who are not arrogant, like you, ladies and gentlemen, of counter-population. However, as the excellent scholar, Nicos Kazantzakis, said, "they achieve it by people who love responsibility, who, if something is lost, believe that it is their fault that they have not tried even more for the common good." And the common good must be colourless, transparent and clear, as the tables of the SAAP do not have color. On the occasion of the AACC tables, therefore, given that there has been a great deal of talk, especially by the New Democracy's dear rapporteur, about whether it was necessary or whether it is necessary today to recruit those people who have been held hostage to an unexpected social policy, I would like in turn to ask: When the New Democracy Government then took the decision to open this tender, was it necessary to recruit these people in order to meet real needs of work at the local government agencies? The second sincerely, which did not refer to these objections, reactions from Opposition on Article 15, is that for those recruitments and others, the agreement is necessary, by decision of the Ottawa Municipal Council. There, indeed, this is the case, which - I repeat - has not been mentioned and commented on: are mayors and municipal councils in one way or another whether they really need to be hired or hired to serve real work needs. So the people who will be recruited, ladies and gentlemen, did not ask for their party identity. Quite simply, we restore their fair, fair and fair treatment. Why else is politics, what else should it be, apart from the application of equality and equality between citizens? What else does it have to be? Absolutely nothing else. Of these are the kritos: Security, trust, participation, effort, everything. If the employed person, the retired person, the small, medium-sized trader, the small-scale owner contributes as much as the highest state law provides... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will need your tolerance for a minute. If, therefore, I say and repeat - the employed person, the retired person, the small, medium-sized trader, the micro-owner, contributes what is equivalent, as does the highest state law, the Constitution, I believe it will do without a trace of indignation, because it will be his individual contribution to the functioning of an organisation, which he himself is a vital cell, and he is aware that the possibility of death of the organisation is also in itself. With our contribution to a sustainable and inclusive development of local self-government, helping people who do their innovative thoughts to make best use of local self-government capabilities with their social sensitivities in the daily attitude of life, I declare that the Independent Greeks of this draft law, with the exception of Article 133, which concerns private incinerators for the reasons I have developed and in my article. Incineration for us is a violent act contrary to burial, which is an expression of respect and the prospect of human continuity. The sanctity of the soul lies in connection with the sanctity of the body during Christian dogmatic teaching. Our objection has nothing to do with the assignment of competence, but with the same procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u88	Mr Ioannis Saridis has the floor from the Centroon Union.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u89	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot - it says - talk about memos in a country that comes out of the market. That was what the Minister, Mr Stathakis, told us on the committees a few weeks ago. He had prepared us for the government's arguments if we were to get out of the market. So we went out test and managed to borrow once again what we needed to pay our debt interest. Success against a lot. And we borrowed from the ones we already owed. Success this too. These are undeniable. No one can question them. Ladies and gentlemen of the government majority, I invite you not to accept this argument by Mr Stathakis, if you would of course like to maintain any contact you still have with the reality that our fellow citizens are experiencing. I would ask you not, not possibly, because I am concerned, even to the slightest extent, with the degrading of your popular percentages, but because these easy narratives, as you know, of the line, you probably believe them and, in fact, with passion and the worst, you legislate according to them, based on them. So I wonder, do you really think the rest of Mr Stathakis' claim? Can we or can we not in Greece today talk about memos? Can we or can we not talk today about memos that Greece borrowed from the markets? For us, the Central Association does not suffice to forget the ninety-nine years of TIADED, nor, of course, does it suffice to ignore the fact that people are recently hired at the port of Thessaloniki under EUR 500 contracts, so that any investor who is found can keep up with the staff commitments, while maintaining the collective agreements, but at the level set by these recent and exceptional contracts you have just signed. We cannot talk about monuments, but Thessaloniki - the truth is - does not know whether it will have a smooth operation on the buses since September, does not know whether ELVO will continue to exist. Thessaloniki does not know what will happen, if it is to be done, by submissive police stations, fire stations - the Minister left and did not precede me - and health centres. We don't know what dawns us, not only in Thessaloniki, but throughout Greece. And when we ask the ministers responsible, because what happens to us is what happens to us, they tell us that they are to blame for the memos! We cannot talk about recruitment, increases, or even about restoring injustices as long as we are in the memoranda. That's what they say! That's the government's argument. So, on the one hand, Mr Stathakis is trying to convince us that we cannot talk about memos, and on the other, Mr Chakalotos, that we cannot hope to restore injustice while there are memorandums. This is what the Minister says in every response he gives when he answers in the context of Parliament's control. Is it also right for the Minister, Mr Papadimitriou, to declare to a foreign television station that he is not a politician? Is that right? Is it right that the dear Minister, Mr Skourletis, should be responsible for the empty OTA funds in the patriotism of the Greeks? Ladies and gentlemen of the government majority, it is your duty to speak the truth and not to present things as they suit you. You're saying we can't talk about memos. But I ask you: why in the first chapter of the bill under discussion there is absolutely no provision for restoring injustice and reintroducing the status of equal treatment and equal treatment of people who do exactly the same work? Today we are adopting all the proposals from the administrations and workers in municipal water and sewerage operations, which, of course, also draw their prestige from infrastructure projects amounting to 18 billion, which have been executed all these years. So why do we accept what they have found to be necessary for the proper management of precious water, yet we tell them that they are not entitled to have the same wages as their colleagues in the EEAS and EEAS? Can we not restore this injustice of the memorials? How, then, can all these people not speak outside this Chamber about the memos? These people, you know, do the same work, offer the same services, are exposed to the same risks, face the same problems as the workers in the EEAS and in the EEAS, but they are not paid the same. To accept that it is not the memorial to create this injustice. But who prevents you from restoring equality and serving you today, from the position of the government in which you are in, the constitutional requirement for equal treatment of citizens? And in order to better understand what we are talking about today and the size of injustice, I would remind you that last December the government sent two divisions of police officers to guard the people of the EMSDDA who decided to share many millions of euros as profits to their shareholders. NSAs share profits to shareholders at the same time as the last euro counts! That's what the memos allow? As we have said in the committees, we will support the first part of the bill, because it will really help to do things right. This does not mean that we will be overlooking and forget all the gaps it leaves and the injustices it allows. I am going to comment on the third part of the bill, whose few articles deal with the very important issue of European territorial cooperation. For us, for the Central Association, this is essentially a one-way road and we will support, with our vote, the provisions and operation of the European Territorial Cooperation Groups, as we are committed to politically defending the European orientation of our country. Ladies and gentlemen, apart from the first and third parts of the bill under discussion, in addition to what no one can question their usefulness, there are hundreds of other articles, which are each one of them a history of microparticipatory transaction. More specifically, with regard to the articles of the second part of the bill, which, in your view, is also a necessary and substantial reform, I would like to make this general comment: The Government argues that, following the completion of the work of the article 5 of Law No.4368 on the revision of the institutional framework of local government, a wide-ranging public debate on the burning issues of local government has begun and awaits its results. However, it says that it is now necessary to move on to exceptional legislative initiatives, before this non-existent dialogue is completed, because it cannot, he says, deal with a number of issues which, as they themselves say on page 9 of the explanatory statement, have demonstrated the economic and social context as urgent and the urgency justifys their fragmentation. Therefore, our criticism of fragmentary legislation, in addition to the self-proof arguments we have put forward, finds ground in your own words. Where's the emergency for the anti-majority service? Where's the emergency allowance for the musicians? What is the need to create posts for journalists at the offices of the Vice-Presidents? Have we solved the problem of transferring students to Article 48? September is close. The reintroduction of a certificate of non-debt of an MSF, which exceptional social need is satisfying? The transfer of school property, which is under Article 71, have you thought about it well? The discharge from criminal prosecutions with an article - Article 100 - of all those who did not obey the law, what extraordinary need for our fellow citizens does it cover? Minister, we have asked you on a number of points which need clarification, but in the committees you have avoided answering. We are concerned about the fact that in Article 91 on the award of further duties to officials from regional units of island regions, it is not clear whether or not we are doubling the work and the responsibilities of these people. We would like the Minister to explain to us if he thinks that these people are sitting up to now and do not work, possibly on the basis of bad planning, and therefore we are forced to increase our demands from them. We cannot understand your thinking, Minister, and we would like an answer to that. We would like answers to other issues, such as the fragmentation of the provisions on the provision of legal coverage to civil servants. Without any central planning, each Ministry here in Greece legislates for its employees. There's nothing at all at all? Every ministry on its own? Is that the design? There are several issues which arise from the overall view of the articles of the second part, such as cases of discrimination between grade 1 officials and grade 2 officials - we have said so in committee - and in relation to other civil servants. On this issue we would like to insist. The provision of legal support should be extended not only to other self-government, but also to all those who may need it. In fact, not since the cases arrive in the courtroom, but since the extrajudicial procedure. We had voted in favour of a similar provision for officials from other ministries, such as our diplomats. [[At this point, the President-in-Office takes over the Vice-President of Parliament, Ms. MARios GEORGIADIS.]] We would like to see an overall regulation on this issue and not a fragmentary one from the Ministry. I now come to the question of Article 137, reminding the Minister that a reply also awaits the question raised by the PLO concerning the Iranian account and what is envisaged for its future in Article 137. As far as I am concerned, this is an initiative of solidarity between our policemen, which works effectively. From what I'm able to know, it's been working since 1978. We would like you to explain to us a little more in detail, Minister, the need that has led you to draw up this article. A lot of unanswered questions. Why are self-protection measures not available to everyone who needs them, regardless of whether they belong to primary or secondary local government, regardless of whether they are workers under fixed or unlimited contracts? On the contrary, you all give the right to some to claim retroactive money. You also did not tell us what is going to happen with the development workers, if the time has elapsed and October is up and the planned procedure has not been completed until then. We'll see what we'll do then? Is there going to be any amendment in this House? Ladies and gentlemen, I close my report, commenting positively on three very important articles of the present, which will be supported by our vote: Article 133 of the Centres for Incineration of the Dead resulting from the right of self-determination and self-management of each citizen in a democratic rule of law. We respect the position of our Orthodox Church, as much as we respect the democratic rights of citizens. Article 144 on the right of the municipalities to divest the materials that are collected and derived from the management of municipal solid waste and bio-waste, which is going against the established interests that are diluting the recycling sector. We will support this effort to restructure Mr Felix. Finally, Article 131 on the completion of political marriages in public outdoors, with which we finally offer a development tool to the mayors of our islands, who are trying to attract international tourism and thus bring income to the state funds. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill has been characterised by many as rousphetologicals. You have not been able to respond to their arguments. You have not put forward any arguments against their arguments. You didn't really manage to convince us that you were fighting injustices. On the contrary, you have convinced us that you have lost contact with reality. Before I come down from the Step, I would like to point out something that emerged a little while ago and relates to the items provided for in the first chapter of the fourth part of the bill, which speaks of the famous and well-expected civic register. It is a tool to save time, money and human resources, with a clear orientation to satisfy the needs of the citizen. And we had a positive attitude to the committees on this. The unacceptable situation to date, in which citizens are asked to provide evidence of self-evident situations and undeniable qualities from the same public bodies responsible for knowing the public's account, its content, should have ceased for some time now. This is a serious step towards modernising public administration, for the benefit of the citizen. And yet, even here you are leaving a window of unconstitutionalism wide open. We would like urgent clarifications on Article 118 and on how to protect citizens from malicious action. We have asked you about this and the committees. Have you taken into account the provisions of those Articles from the Privacy Authority? Aren't we stepping on her again, like we fucked her up on the online ticket? Based on these principles, ladies and gentlemen, on these truths and these arguments, by not believing in zeroing and populism, not to make a sterile opposition in this Chamber, we will be present to monitor the next day what we have in our vote or without our vote the government will be judged to apply. We vote for 'Faiths' at the outset of the bill and we support what is in the public and national interest, voting against all the rest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u90	Thank you very much for the special speaker of the Centroon Union, Mr Saridis. The reason is the special speaker of the river Mr. Spyridon Dannelis, for ten five minutes, with the known tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, IOBE's recent survey entitled "Analyzing the economic elements of the Callicratic municipalities" reveals a sad reality known to those of us who have been involved in local self-government. According to the survey, one hundred and thirty-seven cultural municipalities in a total of three hundred twenty-five municipalities accounted for 31% of the country's population, have deficient balance sheets. Of these, eighteen municipalities, 5.5%, do not have specific accounts nor even for the first management year, that 2011, when the relevant obligation was imposed. His accounting has become compulsory for all Callicratic municipalities, I recall, with the 'Kallikratis' law in 2010, but, as recorded in the relevant study, the percentage of municipalities, without approved budgets, has been built from 6% in 2011 to 14% in 2013 and 42% in 2015. It should be noted that only one in ten municipalities managed to have operational revenue higher than its operating costs.The picture is bad and every legislative effort for local government should have as the starting point the improvement of this situation. I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that historically, the Left is particularly sensitive to local government and has, moreover, been distinguished in its action. He had a vision and always believed that self-government is the field of major meetings, major searches and, of course, common efforts. Today we must remember that two major, ambitious reforms in recent years, which have changed the map of primary government - and I refer to the plans of the 'Kissist' and 'Kallikrates' - from two bold reformists, Alekos Papadopoulos and Giannis Ragosi - have then met huge resistances from the implementation of the various forces of maintenance and inertia, but both these efforts have remained incomplete. They were not followed by the necessary reform of the Code of Municipal Officials, as well as by the great reform of their finances, which would, of course, mean cutting the cord by the central state, the respective authority. We expect, Minister, your vision of self-government, your overall proposal for self-government today. However, we are talking today about a multi-brand plan for self-government, which is nothing but a body of repairs to omissions which certainly could not be predicted on matters that were smaller or larger, which emerged in the course of a change of architecture of selfgovernment, but also in the course of a change of reality. So, as I have called it in committee, a draft 'lanjas' bill, without, of course, being devalued, is an equal draft law, which refers to problems affecting self-government over time, problems which the authorities are asking for as a matter of urgency. But, Minister, the privatization of this bill of customer regulations and unregulated provisions, concerning recruitment, changes in employment, retrospective allowances and in some cases charismatically given, is wrong. Those who know self-government realize that the suit of the public and its general rules is falling very narrow many times and banned. The diversity of the self-government map, with the very wide differences of speeds, inequalities, differences in sizes and special features, impose different ways of dealing with different priorities and problems hierarchies. Generally justified objections to such issues lead to a distorting perception of reality, because today, for many reasons, local government is in an escalating impossibility to respond, not only to its historic roles, but also to the new roles that it gains more and more over time. I am referring to all these areas, which, until yesterday, were not its own competence, but it has been granted to it by the central state from the moment that it cannot respond to citizens like before, with orthodox or even unorthodox ways. In this difficult landscape, therefore, self-government is not only naked from resources, but is also stripped of institutional tools and capabilities. This is the result of having the central administration's responsibilities and responsibilities loaded on it, but without granting it the corresponding tool and resources patronage. In addition, the years of the crisis are the revenues from central self-resources, the CFPs, and the Collective Decision of Local Government, the SATA, which have been cut by over 60%. What does local government need today? But everything that has always been necessary, namely financial self-sufficiency, modernisation, reconstruction, promotion of electronic communication and operation to avoid interpersonal relations with officials, simplification of procedures and the fight against bureaucracy, consolidation and simplification of the auditing authorities, dignity in the emergence of executives, transparency. I will refer to some of the articles, which we are dealing with negatively or positively. In Article 6, which concerns the special end of studies - JHA construction, we have a phenomenon of time-consuming pathogen, which we see in all the expressions of state and self-government, a special fee for specific purposes, necessary for projects, which are costly and necessary for the management of water resources or sewerage. Unfortunately, too many times, the collection was being misused, and their disposal to other purposes than the one the legislator had in mind. It is right that it is up to the municipal councils to decide whether or not to maintain this fee, but it should be compulsory to make this revenue available for the purposes for which it is intended. In this sense, Minister, I think there is a problem with the arrest of all those who have illegally used this end to date because, yes, there are multiple needs, but we also have abuses. With Article 45, which exempts TAs from the surcharges, interest and late fines on the declared dues to tax administration, we consider that it would be appropriate for many reasons and for the mutual benefit of self-government and of the State and its finances to make a serious offsetting of the State’s debts, the famous ‘sustained’ debts with the TAs to tax administration. This would also work toward citizens and toward self-government. Article 52 gives the possibility of adjusting the public debts to grade 1 TAs. It is a positive arrangement, both to the public debtors, who in many cases have lost the opportunity to respond to their obligations and, of course, to the funds of the municipalities, who are waiting for a breath from this regulation. In fact, in the last few months - several months, in fact, several months - there has been a lack of revenue, precisely because the public expects this regulation. It should be noted, of course, that these arrangements are carried out in an economic environment of incompleteness for both OTAs with scissors and for the citizens, most of whom have, in recent years, been found in an unpredictable and unpredictable economic reality. Let us note here that in many cases, fines or increases imposed on various infringements are often unrealistic. We are guided by tables with due time, which are actually doomed to remain unresolved. So I think it is a matter, Mr Ministers, which we need to see as a whole. In today's bad reality, the only easy thing is to lose once your pace and then derail yourself definitively. In many cases, even such favorable arrangements cannot save you. There are proposals from mayors for a system of permanent treatment for the citizens' debts, which I think is worth seeing. In relation to Article 80, which concerns the appointment of successful ISAs to institutions that have been abolished, I would like to say the following: for no civil servant, wherever he belongs, nothing equivalent to the provisions in paragraph 2, is allowed. We do not think that this should be the case in the Ottawas before the two-year period is completed. A problem also appears to be Article 82, which covers organic positions of LAGs by staff employed through the provisional tables from 1-1-2008 to 31-12-2010 and covered fixed needs of a number of years. But, in what logic and what needs of the municipalities do these recruitments today respond? What specialities and levels of education do the municipalities need today and what is the staff being promoted to be recruited? Do the municipalities have the same needs as the ones they had five or seven years ago? And since the number of recruitments is extremely low, we need to see and prioritise the real needs that the municipalities need to meet. Article 85 on secondments to staff, I think it contradicts the law on the mobility of Mr Katrugalos. Article 97 concerns the means of personal protection of workers and the supply of milk. Because we are facing a retrospective allocation of personal protection and money milk instruments to OTA workers for the years 2012-2016, it is an absolutely problematic article, in our view. It imposes an unforeseen burden on the budgets of the municipalities, and makes it extremely difficult to identify the beneficiaries within five years, as envisaged and, of course, will open up a judicial industry. Of course, it also escapes the purpose of anticipating these instruments. It must be ensured, however, that from now on, the LAGs have to pay this allowance in time to the real beneficiaries in kind and not in money, because this money-conversion case is too old, it cost, it was leaving the purpose it had to serve and, of course, it created injustices. Article 98 concerns the allowance for unhealthy work. There are a lot of questions that are raised in relation to the classifications that are made. Of course, we must do a serious job and the workers who deserve the benefits provided for by the law must take them. But to take them, those who really deserve them. We believe that category C is unjustified. For example, why should engineers be entitled to an allowance because they simply have the supervision of a project? That's their job. That's why they're hired, and that's why they're rewarded. Article 100. We are punishing the refusal to implement the law, retroactively exempting from criminal and disciplinary responsibilities of officials and officials, who have refused to send information to the Ministry responsible for the registration of officials. With this logic, how are you going to deal with the ADEDY, which was just yesterday, because it successfully sabotaged any assessment that you are going to the public today with the invention of the strike - abstention from March last year, forcing the Minister to extend until August 8th? It's exactly the same case. Article 103: With regard to OTA music benefits, I think that everyone should have learned that the logic of allowances can, on time, pave some holes, but it is certain that over time, they create huge distortions and, of course, very big problems. Article 99 concerns the Municipal Police. This so-called reform of the Samara government - which, in fact, was a counter-reform - was the dismantling, that is, in total, of a House, the Municipal Police, which was a tool which was extremely useful for local government, created many problems, which we must of course make up for. That is why I am convinced, Minister, that we need to deal with the Municipal Police seriously, together and fully, because any bulb - as some time ago, a month ago, we did, by voting on some provisions - does not fix the problem. In 2013, Municipal Police employed three and a half thousand people in seventy five municipalities across the country. In the forced state reduction, then, the Municipal Police were chosen to dissolve, perhaps because the number of three and a half thousand members was at stake. Its revolution in May 2015 with n.4325 was, unfortunately, only re-recommendation by name, because it was also made vexed and sketchy. Of the three and a half thousand people came back only a thousand eighteen and seventy - five Municipal Police were reconstituted only ninety - five. In Crete there were two hundred policemen and today there are twenty-seven. In the Municipality of Hersonissos, in the most tourist city of Crete, eighteen serve only fours today. If, Minister, you want to reconstitute a useful tool for self-government, we need to move on to a - as I said just now - serious and complete re-establishment. In this context, provision should also be made for the right to voluntary return to all former municipal police officers, regardless of where they are today. The restoration of economic injustices, which have accompanied compulsory availability and mobility, must be done. And it must, of course, be done as far as the possibilities of self-government are concerned. Now, in this regulation for paragraph 6, why differentiate between those applicable in the Code of Municipal and Community Staff, excluding the PPC, that is, the first and most experienced scarlets of Municipal Police from the position of Head of Division? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I want two or three minutes to finish. I will not ask again for the floor, I will not answer the articles. In Article 101, which concerns the payment of staff fees for the action "Harmonisation of family and professional life", we would like you to consider the possibility of legislative improvement for paragraph 1, namely, to recast the phrase as follows: Instead of being for the annual cycle 2016-2017, it should be made "for each year's cycle", in order to make the provision meaningful and lastingly applicable, as is the huge problem of multi-months, many times, payroll delays of the action staff, an action involving infants, children's stations, CSR, AMEI, etc. Finally, Article 133, which allows individuals to create and operate incineration centres of the dead, is the irony of market vengeance. And it is very positive that you bring this arrangement, Minister, because it solves a huge problem. And it is a huge problem, which has to do with one of the fundamental human rights: the right to self-determination of the body. As he's got it in life, he's obviously got it after he got out of it. I would point out, however, the great defeat, which we recognise is the case with this provision by local government and, more generally, with political defeat, the defeat that cannot arise on an issue which has to do with human rights the political cost of confronting with local metropolitans. And meeting rights, randomly your unscrupulous partner, the ANELs, is across the street. But the vote on the principle of opposition saves the situation once again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u92	Thank you very much for the special speaker from the river, Mr. Danellis. Let me let you know a little bit which process we shall follow. Some amendments have been tabled, so the relevant ministers have asked for the floor to develop them. The Deputy Minister for Home Affairs, Mr Toskas, will be inaugurated and will be followed by the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr Fotou. The Minister for the Interior, Mr Skourletis, will then speak, so that the parliamentary representatives can begin after their word and that the speakers will follow. Mr Toskas has the floor. Five minutes, Minister, is that enough for you?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to support two amendments. The first, with a general number of 1147 and a special 52, concerns five-year obligation fire extinguishers. As you know, the last process with which five-year obligation firefighters were hired took place in 2011. Then there was an extension of the list of compact fire extinguishers for two years and then for another three years. In other words, this list expired on 31 December 2016, and with this amendment we extend for two more years the possibility of supplementing, covering empty organic fire-fighting positions of five years, i.e. until December 2018, in order for there to be the possibility - you know the needs of the Fire Corps, you know the needs of addressing natural disasters in our country - as long as there are other conditions, to replace the gaps for five-year-old fire-fighting fire brigades. After all, these people have had a great deal of experience, they already have seasonal firefighters, that is, for a period of six months each year they serve the Fire Corps and serve social needs. They therefore have experience. It is therefore possible to maintain this list so that, if conditions exist, the requirements that exist in the Fire Corps can be met. This concerns the first amendment. The second amendment, with a general number 1144 and a special 49, concerns the police identities of Greek citizens. The issue of police ID cards is a subject on which much has been said at times and in one direction and on the other. It is an issue that, on the basis of the 2014 European Union directive, should have expired, should have been completed by 2016. I can say that our country, plus another country in Europe, has identities, not of good quality and not reliable in terms of full security and credibility. And you know what? Because technological data are changing, and because the controls at airports everywhere, even within Europe, are now being carried out electronically - at our "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" airport, electronic control equipment are being installed and controlled by the citizens of Europe - a credit card type ID is needed, with digital recognition. Otherwise, citizens will be afflicted with old identities until data are recorded and identified. I mention one example of many. We therefore need to move faster on identity issues. At the same time, of course, we should also pay attention to the issues of the protection of personal data. In many respects these issues are at risk. We know what's going on online, we know what's going on in all cases of data logging. It can be done. We can maintain personal data as well as safety efficiency. That is why any action will be taken after approval by the Privacy Authority. Therefore, our intention is to win fast and secure personal data, for which we are all interested, and we should show the same respect. I even have a report from the Citizens' Counselor who writes some examples and says how much the Greek citizens are troubled with the old identities they write, for example, "Thess/Vice", "Alex/City" and they go and are not recognized. The good of security and respect for human rights can therefore be maintained. We are therefore thinking of amending Law 1599/1986 on identity data. The Minister should be given flexibility so that the various technical features and elements that will be needed - after approval, as I said before, of the Privacy Authority - are made by a ministerial decision so that we can move faster and serve the citizen so that there are no examples that I have mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Minister. The Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mrs. Theanos Fotio, has the floor. Minister, five minutes is that enough for you too?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u95	I'm going to need a little more, but I'm going to be short, Mr. President. Thank you. The first amendment is general number 1131 and special number 42. It concerns general paragraphs which facilitate the operation of social protection units, such as, for example, the first. In the first, we add specialties to the subsidiary staff of the units, which we have, of the centres, that is, social protection throughout Greece. You know that these, because of the crisis, have a very reduced staff, they have great needs, and that is why we add further specialties, such as kindergartens, physical education, nursery, interpreters, Greek sign language, music instructors, cleanliness, health care workers etc, because there were no such specialties. We shall proceed to the second paragraph. As you remember last year, we voted for the possibility that regions from their own resources should fund Legal Persons of Private Law - but certified by the Ministry of Labour - which provide social protection services, above all. This is exactly what we extended for 2016 and 2017, because from one amount of the regions that they had allocated, it remained indisposed, so we transfer it to 2016, and of course, we extend it to 2017, because it seemed that the measure is interesting and the regions are helping. The third paragraph is the extension of the ‘Help at Home’ programme until 2019. You are aware of the 'Help at Home' institution, an institution of extremely important importance, which must gradually become part of the permanent structures of the municipalities. The fourth paragraph concerns nights and specialities of the various units, of our own. As you can see, since in December there was a great transfer of powers between the OAUs, namely the Financial Control Services and the DGs, namely the Department's Directorate-General for Finance, this dispute delayed the payment of the night and exceptional nights, so that the workers for December 2016 remain unpaid - one month - and the rest of the months until today, 2017. Finally, with the fifth paragraph, I think that there is an important activity being done, because the existing status, which exists in the special education units, is extended. In other words, the regions, by their own means, will be able to transfer the children of HEIs, etc., to the places of either school education or more generally to creative employment. With the latter provision, we are extending for all children and in these cases disabled persons the possibility of being able to transfer them free of charge from the regions. [[The end of the speaking time of Mrs. Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] Mr President, I'm going to need that much more time. The second is Amendment No 1145 and special number 50. This is the case of temporary relocation of special social groups. There are social groups, which live in a state of impoverishment or in a state which is inappropriate to any side - health, education, in general, to say, living conditions, etc. - and they need to be temporarily relocated. I have developed in the Committee on Social Affairs, but also in the Committee of the Regions, a great plan to register such an expert, for example, a group - not only that, as I have explained to you, this amendment, but this is an example - that is, of the Roma group, Greek citizens. We've recorded three hundred seventy-seven camps. As I have presented to the two standing committees, the seventy of them are characterised by all those impoverishment elements, which unfortunately come very often to the news through television. We cannot continue to support such a regime. They must be relocated quickly. For the seventy, then, camps are among others this amendment. What do we do toward though? With five co-legislative ministries - as you know, the Roma issue but also many special groups - it requires this cooperation - working, health, the interior, the environment and development, we are setting up a temporary relocation committee of special social groups from the services of these five ministries, assisted by a technical support team, which is set up each time by the relevant Secretary-General of the group, whichever is the case. And what does he do exactly? Municipalities - with the initiative of the municipalities - submit an organised group relocation plan to this committee. This project is included in paragraphs 2, 3, 4 and 5 and concerns, firstly, the municipality's disposal. In other words, the municipality is responsible for placing its own land or other legal person governed by public law or private law, if the municipality approves it with its municipal council. What I am saying to you, of course, has been discussed with the mayors since December and with the regions which intend and already have ten mayors, ten municipalities, that is, which have proposed specific relocation sites, which are located on the edge of impoverishment on their own plots. There the municipalities will draw up installation plans - plumbing, sewerage, etc. - as required, will be submitted with a dossier in the Temporary Relocation Committee, the dossier will contain appropriate conditions, the known five hundred measures from an archaeological site, not to be at the ravages, forests and reservoirs, and the possibility of water supply, sewerage, electricity. The municipality will have a recital reflecting the current situation and, at the same time, analyses the need for relocation. Thirdly, the decisions of all the competent bodies of the municipality, attestations from the relevant departments, as to the previous ones, a technical report on the relocation area, etc. and draft general provision of the master plan facilities. Finally, with a joint ministerial decision all the previous situation that I describe and all the documentaries are reflected from there and then, temporary relocation - I insist - can be made. I think this amendment is important because it gives a breath in all these cases that I have described. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Minister. Mr Panos Skourletis has the floor. Immediately after that, the series of parliamentary representatives and the list of speakers will follow. So a parliamentary representative will speak, two speakers will start speaking and the procedure will continue in this way. Here, Minister, you have the floor for eighteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate coincides with the next day, which is quite important to our country. And, of course, I am referring, as you all understand, to the successful trial exit on the markets. Without any humiliation, without overlooking that the difficulties we still have before us are great, undeniably, we have been given a signal of confidence in the choices of the last few years. A climate is created which, without doubt, needs the Greek economy and I think it is something that should satisfy all sides and I believe it intimately, despite the awkward opposition screams and the attempt to reduce the value of this step, through a number of strange numerical considerations. However, these positions, these approaches once again attempt to make an assessment of yesterday's exit, forgetting the previous project that was led to the deadlock. And I'll tell you exactly what I mean. Because, although the Samara government had also been tested on the markets, but this exit was followed by another one, which was a failure, which was not crowned by the relative success of the first exit. And, of course, it followed the fact that the assessment, the so-called fifth evaluation, was not closed. We know well what we received, what debris we received. Therefore, if you want to make a proper assessment, evaluate the two projects, because they are two different projects. And their diversity is from now on. Your party - it confirms every day, every time, in all its statements - believes in the core of this policy that is currently being imposed in Europe. It believes in the dominant strategies, which consider austerity to be the strategy needed to continue from now on in Europe, ignoring the messages that come from everywhere that this road is the most anti-European, which strengthens centrifuges. Read the results of the European elections. We have had a rich experience of the European elections. See that even where there is in principle a prevalence of certain forces, which are among your own, one way or another, political family, it has been accompanied by large abstention rates, with the strengthening of those forces which are aware of this deadlock and anti-social course in Europe. But this is a debate, which we will do and we will do it again. Our understanding is different from this. It is something we have said too many times and we will say it, because we mean it. We do not adopt this programme. We're not claiming his fatherhood. We know that it is the result of painful compromises, but we also know the margins, which exist to gain things for the benefit of workers and to create, in a medium- to long-term context, conditions for us to move away from the policies of extreme austerity. Ladies and gentlemen, as we enter the final phase of voting for this particular bill of the Ministry of the Interior, I would like to remind you that in no case have we argued that it is a great reform section. On the contrary, we said that it promotes specific small reforms, but which have a great added value for local government, because they solve operational issues, satisfy years' requests, protect workers as far as possible and within this negative framework, which we are forced to govern. In this sense, this bill is signed, credited to those measures of government policy, which can be judged as absolutely positive. It is a well-deserved bill with the positive comments of the operators. I would like to remind you very quickly of what the representatives of the WTO workers, the PDO - ITA, have said. I would like to remind you of what the representatives of HSY, the CEDEFOP, have said, despite their perhaps more general reservations about government policy in the field of self-government. I would like to remind you what the school cleaners' representatives, the music associations' representatives, the adventurists' representatives and all those who saw that this bill with sensitivity, with reasonable reason, without exaggeration and within the framework of policy being pursued, is trying to promote and resolve issues. Ladies and gentlemen, I feel the need to focus on those regulations that are on local government, because it is a matter of fundamental justice that we can now give all workers cleanliness to be able to enjoy personal protection measures and not remain as the regime that has so far banned contractors, who have done the same work as permanent cleanlinessers, should have individual protection measures. And he does something else, for which we are even judged today. Honestly, I cannot understand why there has been such an anti-social attitude on the part of the New Democracy and not accepting it, that for the past few years, those workers who paid from their pockets, in order to have these elementary measures of personal protection, from 2012 onwards, do not want to be compensated, obviously in money. Right now, there could be no other way. Why is this a rhysphetological and it is not a morally imposed attitude toward these people who were forced and bought milk from their pockets, who took the phosphorus vest out of their pocket, who took the gloves, which they paid from their pocket or from the arrows? I didn't understand that. In the end, however, it is indicative of how one perceives a number of issues and how it is possessed by an elementary social sensitivity. It is indicative of who eventually cares about the world of work or who wants to serve other kinds of interests. And these interests you named: it was the private companies, which in the recent crisis in the area of cleaning, you wanted de facto to impose them. You didn't get past it. You were not followed by the mayors, who move in your own political wavelength. Because everyone realises that cleanliness is within the core of the obligations and the role that self-government is coming to play and not the state. So you want to cancel it. Indeed, you want to cancel it, canceling the very logic of the reward services. Because the payroll services - I told you and the committees - and I did not see you commenting on it - are making out of the logic of business profits, and that is why they are totally rewarding. They collect from citizens fees and pay equal value services, obviously not'entering' - we do not want to create new black holes - but not by gaining through them. It's what the private can't do. Because the individual wants to act and invest - and that makes sense - where there is a profit. So another very big difference between conservative opposition and the present government. Ladies and gentlemen, while I have listened to various considerations, I have listened to the following: After overcrowding some money and having the opportunity of the municipalities to make, at least potentially, where they want, after their own decisions, some kind of decisions, such as what is envisaged for the island municipalities or what is imposed, 50 euros for the maintenance of the musical instruments, why do we not take this money from the municipalities and revert them back to the state? That's what you suggested.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u98	Not in the state. To the citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u99	Citizens are on their way. But I repeat that you will be careful and I would like you, Mr Voridis, to be in charge of local government at any conference or conference to say that and to stop hypocritically criticising and saying why expenditure on local government does not increase. Because now the signal you give us is a further reduction. Further reduction for why? So that there is no medical allowance, the teachers, the firefighter, the police officer on the small island, who can potentially be disbursed by a municipality from his own finances, from his own fund. This logic is completely incomprehensible and strange. Then in that sense and in what you have agreed, whether or not heterogeneous, whether by spreading. Because otherwise you entered the Chamber and the first committee and before it to society when you were talking about the bill. Remember the cries, the hysterical opposition screams about what the state is going to derail financially, about the intangible recruitment. You didn't find them. You didn't name them. Try magnifying lens to find armies of new recruitments. This is not confirmed by the contents. So that's what you've swallowed, you've downloaded the tons. But you agree that there should be a recompense for all the vice mayors. Isn't that right? You didn't agree? I saw you agreed. You agreed that there would be a legitimate compensation for travel expenses to the Callian municipalities in the region so that municipal councillors, who are obliged to go to the meetings to put petrol out of their pockets, tolls and I don't know what else. We should cut those too. It's unnecessary. It's all unnecessary. If we dismantle the state, if we shrink local government, if we deliver it all to private powers, then our great pleasure. This is, indeed, not just a strategically different conception, it is a different conception of worldview. It's another philosophy of how society should be formed. You'll tell me things you know. At least I recognize the honesty of you, that you have a straightforwardness and defend as much as it is disgusting as it is to be a few things straightforward. Ladies and gentlemen, through the provisions of this bill we truly shield a tool that has played an important role in the Greek region, and these are the JHAs, which are today those companies which are today, separately and with full autonomy in relation to the municipalities, with the rules of the private economy and manage and maintain the networks, extend the projects, take care of water supply, have an estimated scientific potential and, indeed, these provisions essentially open up a prospect for these companies. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not think I saw you talking about something positive. It is not wrong to refer to some things, or to refer more to some things you agree with. I imagine you agree with the regulation of the debts of either business or natural persons to the municipalities. I imagine that you agree with the inconsistency of the advance benefits introduced within this bill. You do not agree - and this is, of course, very low on your own scale - that is perhaps too low on the one hand - with the possibility that we give the IPTO to justify the costs of moving them. Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u100	The first paragraph.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u101	What I mentioned just now is that you disagree with 50 euros, the maintenance allowance for musical instruments, is a small sample that supports culture in our country. We do not think that we have done anything as a government, much more as a state or a state, to support culture. Obviously in a market perception, which predominates not only in our country, but also in Europe today, all of this is marginalized, going aside, it is unnecessary luxury. We have already forgotten what we owed the workers. That's why you disagree. It's a matter of ideology, your disagreement. It is not a matter of absolute cost to retroactively give compensation for personal protective equipment to workers. It's just the perception of a different, different world. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not anticipate a break in the recruitment of municipal radio stations. On the other hand, we say that they should be subject to the recruitment scheme which exists in all other cases of 1 to 4. You, of course, disagree with one to four and you want to harden it up, as you said a moment ago. You want one to five. The number of people employed must therefore be reduced even further. You're swinging your head down, obviously. What does that mean? Can you translate it a little? Do we have a sufficient number of engineers today in the municipalities? There are municipalities throughout Greece, over eighty the number, which do not have technical services or economists. Can these municipalities take advantage of the financial opportunities we give them through the various financial instruments or European programmes, or do we condemn them to marginalisation? Or are we condemning the Greek region precisely in extinction, because we do not give them the tools or at least we do not have a plan? We did eighty-two targeted scientific staff recruitment a few months ago. We also made an exceptional aid of 20 million to municipalities in small, island and mountainous, and a provision also releases some money for the completion of this process. That is what we can do with the poor means that make us difficult. Why do you disagree with that? What are you suggesting? What's your plan? How are you going to talk to these people in the Greek region? It's your problem! I ask questions. On the other hand, we do not think that it is right for people who had achieved ADP competitions, for whom within the planned and defined dates, within the two-year period, the allocation transaction had come out, to refuse them now to be appointed, since the competence of those bodies that were intended to be registered has come to other municipalities or other businesses, through mergers. Why is that bad? Aren't these responsibilities available? Isn't this activity still going on? It's continuing. In these cases we anticipate it. So why should this not be a new way to have a series of appointments through the slope or straight path? They've written terrible numbers these days, extraordinarily. And all this because? Just to create impressions. So I suggest that you vote - even with guilt - on this bill or some provisions, and let us start talking about the next phase, about the great institutional change in the 'CALKARATIO'. Of course, you have never been as a place to defend any change. You were also at the "KALIKARATI" opposite, and at the "KAPDEISTRIA" opposite, and at all the major institutional changes that have taken place over the last few decades. We also objected, not to the proclamational intentions of these changes, but to the way they were implemented. Of course, as a conservative party, you want to leave everything as you did. It's a life stop. I told you what our objections were and what our positions were. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we need to upgrade - and you can see that in one way or another, the country has a horizon in front of it, a time in which it can escape the debate and the recycling of a debate on negotiation - the quality of the dialogue here and to unfold each other's own proposals. That is exactly what I call on you to do in the field of local government. Let's see exactly what it means that local government must have its own space. Let us see what changes we can make so that we can swim and not have a gypsy state not only in the literal sense of the word, i.e. with little resources to self-government, but also in the field of competences. Let's see what responsibilities eventually need to be expelled and executed by the first and second degrees of local government. Let's see an election system, which will not be deforming like today. We have tabled our own proposal for simple analogues, which will open up the field, will enable new self-government forces to break up today's housing and contribute to the regeneration of local communities. I would like to refer to something that Mr Synthrakis has said on many occasions in committee from the JRC. Mr Syntagakis, you said a thousand times that workers in the regions are not covered in relation to the PPE and the allowance for unhealthy work. Read the law again. When we say OTA, we mean Grade One and Grade Two. We have also told the workers, and we have told you, we have told the committees. Please don't bring it back.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u102	Clear it up. What trouble do you have to put 'A' and 'B'?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u103	But it's perfectly clear. But you did not answer me, Mr Synonymakis, on a question I raised to you the other day. Finally, do you agree that this compensation should be paid for the measures of individual protection in the past few years? You have to answer this question first of all, not to us, not to Parliament, but to the workers. So I would ask you to submit this answer to your denunciation. I hope I'll take her. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like - so as not to take the floor again - to refer to some of the amendments that have been tabled. First of all, the Ministerial Amendment is accepted with a general number of 1131 and a special number of 42. The amendment is also accepted by the general number 1144 and by a special 49 - it has been analysed by Mr Toskas a little earlier and concerns the provision on identities - and the amendment by a general number 1145 and by a specialist of 50, the amendment with a general number 1147 and a special number 52. At the same time, I would like to refer more specifically to two ministerial amendments. One is the financing of the parties. You remember that in the recent multi-project, which we had voted on before the completion of the second evaluation, there had been some changes in the financing of the parties. With this amendment, with a general number of 1146 and a special number 51, we are substantially shifting the implementation of the arrangements from 1 January of the following year. After all, disbursement and most of the disbursement to the political parties has been made under the former regime, it would be something that would cause us problems if we were now in the middle of the year to adopt or implement these regulations. I think you have seen the amendment. I would also like to refer to Amendment No 1139 and to Amendment No 45. It is a provision which clarifies that contracts concluded with workers made redundant following the Court of Auditors' decision, from now on and up to the announcement of the results of the provisional tables of the AACC tender for the recruitment of permanent staff to cleaning, will only be possible for them to cover costs beyond profit. It is something that a number of municipalities have asked for and I think we should accept it in particular because of the circumstances that have been created lately.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u104	So the other amendments are not accepted, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u105	I'm not finished yet. The amendment under number 1114 and a specialist from Mr Xydakis, Mr Amyras, Mr Gregoras and others is accepted. Amendment No 1129 is also accepted and specific No 40 is included. This is an extension of the 'THESIS' programme. The amendment with a general number 1130 and a special number 41 concerning the possibility of continuing the AXIA programme is also accepted. At the same time, I would like to say that this amendment is accepted by the following legal improvement: in the first paragraph after the words 'from payment orders and final judicial decisions', the words 'which have been adopted until the publication of this amendment' are added.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u106	I would like to say to you that this provision which, if you remember, had been passed on to a previous bill from the Ministry of Interior this year, has a very great response. It concerns final decisions that were adopted after the end of April, as we had been able to do with the time-limits that we had approved for those decisions, and this is a programme that has really worked for the municipalities. I do not know whether you are familiar with the various communications whenever they are made, on a regular basis by the Ministry of the Interior, for these extraordinary sums. I would also like to say that the amendment is accepted under a general number 1137 and a special number 44. It concerns the amendment tabled by Mr Skourikos and Mrs Theleritis, and it is for the town of Elefsina and the provision for a European cultural capital. Amendment No 1142 is also accepted and specific No 47 relating to the coverage of camping costs for children of regional officials. Mr Synonymakis, another request from what you have referred to is accepted. In the end, I imagine, you'll vote both hands for the bill. Finally, the amendment is accepted under a general number of 1143 and a special 48, which concerns financial grants for the South Aegean Region. This amendment relates to donations after the earthquake in Kos. I also want to submit two legislative improvements. Article 43(2) and the last subparagraph of the second paragraph of Article 24 shall apply. I'll give it to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u107	Two ministerial amendments have not been accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u108	Who do you mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u109	Amendments Nos 1140 and 1148.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u110	The amendment under number 1140 has not been supported at the moment. So we're waiting.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u111	Wait for the support.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u112	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u113	Likewise for Amendment No 1148?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u114	I do not see the amendment with number 1148 at all on paper. We expect the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Minister. The parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Reconciliation, Mr Theocharopoulos, has been speaking for twelve minutes. And right after that, Mr. Cameroon follows. There's a list of speakers on the list.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u116	Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will begin - because you have referred, Mr Skourletis, to the facts, which affect any bill relating to developments in the economy. I heard you refer to the exit on the markets. We first told you - and the rapporteur for the Democratic Alliance - that it is a positive development for us. But that's the prisoner. The second is that you create an artificial success story in your government and in this case - to be honest, I did not hear it from you - in relation to the economy and markets. I heard it from other government officials. Again, you are creating an artificial success story, which you have been accusing of in previous years in your government. I am talking about something that we have said from the outset that, of course, the country should be borrowed from the markets, but we have not been talking about loan sharks. Aren't those loan sharks now? Mr Skourletis, the 'people above numbers', as you have said many times, is not now the case? Why am I saying this? Because we must speak in the same way and when there is a situation in society and the economy right now, we must not forget what we were talking about people, that we must have them above numbers and various other elements. You've forgotten now. I have heard you say that you are not adopting this programme. First - first - again, too many government officials, such as the Minister of Labour in the previous period, Mr Katrugalos, said that 'they are all our proposals in insurance, not all of them of the troika'. There are too many of the proposals and their expressions are recorded here. You said you did not adopt this programme. First - First, choose: What are you doing? Do you or do you not adopt this programme?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u117	No one has spoken of adopting the law. Nobody.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u118	You don't keep an eye on what the ministers say. Let me say it better. Either you do not adopt what all the ministers say or you do not follow what all the ministers say. Of course, for both the OGA and the Fund, and for many other elements, the view is that they are a proposal from the Greek Government. At the same time, however, before entering the bill, I will say something about unemployment that was said a moment ago. Ladies and gentlemen, on the subject of unemployment we need to speak frankly. I hear you say that you are down and talking about flexible forms of work and measure the percentages. Mrs Ahtsoglou in January 2017, in the European Union, said that more than 100 000 workers in our country are paid less than 100 euros a month. They're not unemployed on paper. Mrs Ahtsoglou mentioned it for the period of governance SYRIZA - ANEL during the negotiation process. When unemployment is at this height, when these forms of work exist, and when there are people leaving abroad and this poverty, at least let us not talk in this way about a major problem that has not been deviated into the market and the labour market is in a very difficult situation. In this context, therefore, you are bringing today a bill to which I saw you before you were confronted with the representative of the New Democracy. On the one hand, the logic of the free market in everything, on the other, the logic of a view of stateism, a view of a donation-centric policy. I should like to tell you, therefore, because you are often referring to what the central left, the social-democratic proposal is: it is far from a subsidised policy for the recycling of poverty and for the rationale of a modern state of services in the health, education and education sectors. There to direct the resources to truly build a state, which will also be developmental. Because when so much money is lost in our country for these areas, you understand that no development can come. This is a social-democratic response to poverty and not the recycling of poverty, which you are actually doing to your government, but you are doing - and I will then explain it to you - and this bill. It is a bill that, as has been rightly said, there is a report from the General Accounting Office of the State without costing, that is to say, we do not know how much it will cost, we do not know whether there is a rational allocation of expenditure in fact, on what basis, there is the logic of all these arrangements. We have said that some of these arrangements are necessary. We do not disagree with each one of them or follow a regular micro-group opposition and confrontation. Where there's something right, we say it. But the whole bill is without planning where resources should be directed. I'm talking about the self-government, too. Once again, we are here to vote on a bill, which is, in fact, a 'pottouri' of regulations and which is far from complete, targeted and long-term draft law that would reform local government and facilitate it in its multi-level role and which it must perform. The explanatory statement, of course, explains to us, according to what you said, that an overall reform proposal will cover the entire range of institutional, organisational and operational parameters that implement the decentralised order through the institutions of local government. So it's expected. But why hasn't it been completed for two and a half years? You don't have an answer to that. You must give an answer to this, because you have only made small arrangements. Ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that local government has a political, administrative and development role. The question is whether there is this development parameter in this bill. Obviously not, except for fragmentary arrangements that are a customer set-up. In the current context of the economic crisis, new and very difficult conditions are being created. There is no room for all this in local government. The ideological hegemony of state and populism remains, while local government can make a major contribution to reversing the economic climate, provided that the state does not continue to put the obstacles. There is also no intention of doing so in this respect. We are therefore dealing with a multi-brand plan, which, apart from its fragmentation, actually trades in despair of a portion of citizens with extensions, recruitments and retrospective benefits. It overlooks the need for effective consultation and consultation with self-government for a substantial and long-term reform. It maintains timeless pathogens, not today, but time-consuming. It increases, instead of reducing red tape, as in the case of the reintroduction of the MSF in the transfer of real estate. It also works selectively and fragmentedly - I will explain in my dentext on the articles - and promotes customer and collective schemes. It is being served - and it is limited - on a policy of recycling poverty which increases the division of workers, such as Article 98 concerning the categories of benefit for dangerous and unhealthy work, as the criteria for how we now choose certain categories and not others are completely unknown. Also, it is not costly and does not explain how it will be financed. It adds substantially to the lack of credibility. At the same time, I will give some examples: Envia is exempted from the first and second grades of LATVs. Good. It is not exempted from the EMI institutions such as the ‘SOS Children's Village’ or other that provide services that the State should provide and which are not even subsidised by the State. With what logic? Does it not need a weighting of individual parameters? With regard to Article 100, Mr Skourletis, on dismissal of disciplinary and criminal prosecutions against municipal officials who did not provide information on Otto workers to the Ministry at the same time as the abolition of the relevant regulations. I hope, Minister, that you have read the report of the Parliament's Scientific Office on this matter, because it also relates to other issues of public dialogue. I read from the report of the Scientific Office of the Parliament: ‘It is noted that, if criminal proceedings exist, legislative intervention in the exercise of the judicial function is affected by the principle of separation of functions (Article 26 of the Constitution)’. The courts are the only ones who are competent in the principle of separation of functions to terminate the criminal prosecution definitively. For the separation of functions, the rule of law for which we are discussing comes the report of the Scientific Service of the Parliament and tells you that what you are doing in practice with that logic is outside the Constitution. Your government a while ago came by bill and did exactly the opposite. In the OSTH bill, Mr. Spirtzis imprisoned, deprived of civil rights and fines. He put these on for anyone who blocks the application of his own law. Here, then, we have the exact opposite. You come and say that there is no problem and the report from the Scientific Office of the Parliament tells you that this is outside the logic of distinguishing powers, which is necessary. Here science raises hands high for how you operate. You're staying at something steady, Minister. Sacred temples are exempted from the obligation to pay compulsory fees to the municipalities concerned. In Article 135 regarding the relationship between a church State and a State...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u119	Did we do that?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u120	I didn't tell you you did it. I think I'm careful about what I'm saying, Mr. Skourlet. I say that you stay firm in the logic that sent Mr. Friend from your government away. That's just what I'm saying. And I say that in this logic and in these commitments you have, you remain firm in them. Our position, ladies and gentlemen, is the financial self-sufficiency of self-government with fiscal decentralisation, democratisation with the involvement of the citizens, efficiency with the hit of bureaucracy, development actions with a prevention of social exclusion and a network of solidarity and justice, of course, because even the workers of the JHA - and we have said so here - needs restoration. They have been affected by your own policy and by the reductions in wages and, finally, they must be restored to these workers. And that we have put to you and here we have not seen any responses. We focus on targeted policies, in cooperation between regions to implement common policies on the basis of common features, on highlighting the advantages per region and on planning the necessary synergies to highlight the regional identity of each region, on cooperation and not on the conflict between public-private sectors, such as the SYRIZA and New Democracy, a conflict in favour of the private sector in New Democracy, a conflict in favour of the public sector in SYRIZA. What is required is harmonious coexistence. Self-government has the potential for this transformation. Let us not forget that during the years of the crisis, local government has managed to meet the challenges and, furthermore, to prove that it can both be socially and to support the weakest, but also the developmental and resource absorption of the NRP. We are neither a fiercely sterile critic nor a zero. But we cannot fail to point out that you have intrinsically difficulties in both planning and understanding and implementing reforms. You have no reformist attitude. So, instead, what are you doing? Prolong, hire without plan, without consultation. Overall this bill is not one of the old, it's older than the old, its clientele logic. There are some positive arrangements in which we have said that these problems need to be solved, but with a plan. You insist that you have implemented an exhaustive dialogue. But is that the exhaustive dialogue just with micro-directions? Recently, in your attempt to defend your bill, you said that dozens of reasonable demands of self-government are accepted, in an effort to rationalise the functioning of the institutions with great interest, in order to avoid failures, injustices and generalisations. But do you really think we don't understand what's going on? Some reasonable demands are met, except that these are a fragmentary approach and, of course, do not reform local self-government. You have wondered why it is rhetorical to provide clean-up workers with personal protective equipment. No one has told you that this provision is a ruffet, on the contrary it is imposed. What is worrying is how you do it. The problem creates that for the years 2012 to 2016 it will be valued in money and will be attributed under conditions, including the existence of credits. In other words, you are feeding, but you may not do so because of a lack of credit. Isn't that what it's called a humiliation? Not to mention that you do not specify how this is to be done and when. You have wondered whether the extension of the allowance for unhealthy work is rugged, since this results from the actual conditions of employment in this place. No, of course it isn't. Rüsseldorf, President-in-Office of the Council. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, Mr Roosevelt, on his excellent report. You said recently, Minister, that this policy on the part of the opposition does not strike us to return a page to the place. Honestly, do you think that this is the way the place turns? I shall close, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. And because you have referred to your public appearances, we would also like a position here on the issue of the transfer of the self-government elections. I would also like you to say in plenary what your position is on this matter. Because I heard you with one argument that you would postpone the self-government elections from spring to autumn, so that they would not fall along with the European elections. Mr Tsipras assures that national elections will take place in the autumn, unless there is any other plan and you transfer them to take place with the national elections in the autumn. In short, tell you what your view is on this matter. My position, of course, is that, at the end of the day, Mr Tsipras will do what he wishes to do on this issue, as on other issues. He is likely to ignore even your own position and suggestion in this matter and depending on how the situation is at the time by achieving the smallest defeat in the election campaign, he will do whatever is of interest to him. It is therefore important to keep a small basket all of us in this regard. The problem, then, is that with this strategy and the tactics you use, the place does not change. The place's turning back. And that's what the world is getting news about. That's for sure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u121	We thank the Parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Independence. Mr. Ilias Cameroon has the floor from SYRIZA. Here, Mr. Kamaterre, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u122	Mr President, courage in your new duties.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u123	Thank you very much. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u124	Ladies and gentlemen, let me begin with a brief reference to the amendment tabled by me and my colleague, Mrs Aphrodite Theophevette, who has experience of the earthquake in Kefalonia. The Minister accepted it. It takes legislation to allow the region of Attica to be granted to the South Aegean region for damages due to the earthquake in Kos. I am making a special reference, although the Minister has accepted the arrangement, because I think it is particularly important to emphasise here the way in which the Attica Region reacts and operates, and the Regional Director, Mrs Rena Dourou, who has no noise and has always helped - and this is an example to imitate solidarity - other regions when they need it and not just through means, personal, etc., which is usually done, but also financially. He did the same for Kefalonia. He did the same for Mytilini. And I think that these issues should be raised. Generally for the bill, ladies and gentlemen, I think that no one has any objections to it, and that is also seen by the listing of speakers in the situation. For those who have noticed or for those who do not know, only two speakers have written from the New Democracy, one of the other parties almost and none of any other parties. This shows, I think, the general acceptance of the bill which comes to satisfy requests of many years of Ottawa and workers. As far as the substance of the bill is concerned, I will start again with an article, which we might not have had to mention. It is Article 57, which enables municipalities to delete the established benefits in the municipal tax on Dodecanese. It is a tax which had been introduced a long time ago, immediately after the liberation of the Italians, has afflicted people and local authorities very much, with judicial decisions and so on, we have voted to abolish it following judicial decisions and the European Court of Justice. This should not be regarded as a unilateral benefit to entrepreneurs what we are doing now, namely that they can delete certain debts, because we had voted in 2015 that they are not entitled to demand their money back from the entrepreneurs who had paid until then. Below, Article 52 has said about the certified debts for the last two months after the entry into force of this law, that they can be regulated to TATs. Here we have an observation that it could be four months, as is foreseen as the date of submission of applications for damage recovery. But I will be staying in two, three articles concerning the islands, because the problem with recognition of islands is also reflected in them. A request was accepted by the Minister during the committee debate. Where Article 47 states that municipalities of less than two thousand inhabitants will be able to balance the payroll, it has done it four thousand and it is very positive, because it is mainly about the islands. But that is not enough, and with what I will say to you below, there is a need for a more general view of the island policy. For example, Article 32 states that mountain municipalities of up to thirty thousand inhabitants and islanders of up to eighteen thousand may encourage officials to remain in these areas, which are considered to be problematic. The question that comes in is why for the islands of eighteen thousand inhabitants and for the mountain municipalities of thirty thousand inhabitants? Not only should it be the backwards, but for the islands this measure should be universal here. The arguments that prevail, that - you know - they are the rich municipalities, they are the rich islands, they are Santorini, they are Rhodes, they are Mykonos, etc., so there is no need to do this arrangement here, I think they can do so backwards. In other words, there are municipalities that have the potential and municipalities to which there is a problem, for employees to stay - they don't find a house - or islands, where to go to Athens for only once and to get down or go anywhere, they need to pay half of their wages for a ticket go - come. Why not allow the municipalities, if they have it, to keep these employees? That is why the officials are not going to the islands, not only to the small but also to the large, Minister, because even those who are developed do not find a home. And that's why doctors don't go too, but for other reasons. I think that this is a good example to see the overall problem of islands, as another example I shall mention. In Article 34, which says about the costs of moving the anti-regional and regional consultants, it refers to a milestone distance and an article of a previous law, which regulates these procedures here - and which I would point out to you is not mentioned in this House - and says that up to sixty days a year can be compensated. It seems clear here that we do not take into account the islands at all. First of all, we say a mile while there are miles. And the second and most serious, do you know how many islands in the Cyclades the village chief of the Cyclades has to go? Twenty-four islands. Do you know how much he has to go to the Dodecanese? Twenty-five islands. Do you think sixty days a year are enough to compensate for these movements? Especially in the smaller islands may take three and four days and change ships. In fact, in many cases they should also come through Athens, as I did a few days ago when I wanted to go to Kasso, which I went through Athens. And these show that we have no understanding of what is happening with islands as a whole. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Let me, Mr President, for a little while. It will help to do this, what we are trying to do with the Ministry of Island Policy, put the issue of the categorisation of the islands, so that we know that we will not go every time and arbitraryly, we will put some exceptions to the islands, the two thousand inhabitants, the other three thousand inhabitants, the other eighteen thousand inhabitants, the other thirty thousand inhabitants, and, if you want, not only the islands, but there will be categories depending on their location, depending on their development, depending on their potential, and that will be a guide, a framework to operate all the ministries in all their decisions and any programmes that come out or development, so that one island can complement each other and not compete with each other. All this because I have no time, I will not mention it, but it is important to know it, and at some point it has to come to Parliament and the issue of insularity for everyone to understand it, because it seems that despite the Prime Minister's announcements a year ago, we do not understand it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. I think it is worth mentioning, because I come from Kos, who was hit by the earthquake, to mention the immediate mobilisation of everything, not just the state mechanism and the government. There was very good cooperation with all the actors and locals, and indeed, as some professor of characteristics said at a meeting I was attending, it could be the whole management of the situation, a matter of seminars. The problem is - and I am ending with it, Mr Ministers - what happens from now on. Because now that the publicity lights are going to go, we would like, as all the ministries have been in a hurry to help restore the normal flow of everyday life, so from now on, beyond bureaucracy, which I see is too great, to plan the next day and to look at how the wounds are closed as quickly as possible. For our part, we tell you, ladies and gentlemen, the post-Semitic vibrations of Kos earthquake will accompany you and feel them until this story closes and closes the wounds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mr. Cameroon. Mr Charakopoulos from New Democracy has the floor, and then the Deputy Minister for Environment and Energy, Mr Famelos, has asked the floor to develop two amendments and then, Mr Jeleigh, you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u126	Mr President, I should like to ask you, because a procedure has already begun and I should have been there, to be put after Mr Charakopoulos, since it is my turn and then...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u127	No problem, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Charakopoulos has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, if something marks the exit to the markets you so stumbled about, it's the end of the illusions you cultivated. Eventually, not only did you forget the duoules and the junkers, with which you would dance the pentosal markets, but you normally dance at market rates, at a great cost, to the Greek people. And I am not talking about the interest rate on the loan, above - below that of the previous government that came out on the markets in 2014, under different circumstances, of course, but I am thinking of the truth, which you diligently hide and which has now been revealed majesticly. The entire adventure of two and a half years has been a hole in the water paid by the people of gold, close to 100 billion euros, to go back to 2014 and get out on the market three years late. The climate, however, is heavy on the Government and the revelations of large capital, as Mr Tsipras, Mr Varoufakis, who now tells us about Venezuelan oil, Russia's rubles, the incursions of the Mint, events on which convincing answers should be given, such as convincing answers, as the Kammenos with the isobite, because so far we have heard other words to be loved. And anyway, Mr. Tsipras may admit that he made wrong assessments, that he was prepared to rule, that he did not know how to choose partners, but here, ladies and gentlemen, one does not know the role of Prime Minister in the crass, the heads, that is, on the back of an entire people. And neither a confession of mistakes closes the accounts nor a cat nor a damage, and it seems to me that mistakes continue and sometimes become even heavier, because they have to do with the institutions as well. The impenetrable attack by the government on justice that we have been following sharply in recent years is causing the very functioning of the civil society in democracy itself. It is politically irresponsible and prosecuting, for which I do not know whether Mr Tsipras at some point repeats the'mea cuulpa'. But the wounds will remain, as they are left and we will be tortured for a long time by the consequences of the vigilances of the first semester of power. I hope that the appeals from both the President of the Republic and the President of the Council of State will wake you up and stop this bad joke here. I understand, of course, the need for the government to build enemies to change the sad agenda, to rally together its fans who daily escape as other cutlers. In this general philosophy, which comes from the worst moments of our political past, we are responsible for our depressing present, we are also part of the bill under discussion, which has been so passionately defended by the Minister for the Interior, with allowances, recruitments and rumours. Sadly, among his articles, there are quite a few who emerge the odor of more equivocal populism. I am referring, for example, to the outrageous article 100, which abolishes the disciplinary proceedings carried out by officials and hereditaries, who have not provided the data for OTA workers to the relevant Ministry of Administrative Reform at the time. By this provision, the Government effectively abolishes the continuity of the State, it creates a negative precedent which gives workers the slogan in the narrow and wider public sector not to discipline them, but to do according to the principle of impunity. It is the recipe of dissolution and of chaos, which will, of course, have the effect of suffering the citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, the Rusphetological and clienteletic intention is also revealed in other cases, such as the allowances you give them with retrospective power, but also the heavy and unhealthy ones, which you render without any study on which the beneficiaries will objectively be defined. You do the same with journalists and other staff at the municipal radio and television stations. Are you bringing them back to work where and in what capacity? To stations that no longer exist? In addition, municipal enterprises will continue to operate, even if they accumulate losses over more than three years. And of course, you're sending the account to the exterminated taxpayer. This lack of rational evaluation of the needs and economic consequences of any decision characterises the philosophy of a large part of this legislation, which reveals the real intentions of a government that has been admitting for two and a half years between fraud and fraud. Characteristic of the way you are dealing with is the arrangement for the appointments of successful, even of the previous decade, to individual positions, regardless of the real needs of the public, without the General Accounting Office of the State being able to calculate the amount of expenditure generated in the budget and, of course, without knowing the government's planning of total public recruitment, on the basis of the country's limitations due to the memorandums. Ladies and gentlemen, the country is at the dawn of stagnation because of the idea of an ageing government. Each day to maintain the current situation is a lost day for Greece. The place doesn't go in front of meadows and patches. He needs a reformist tsunami, which will finally make the crisis past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u129	We thank Mr Harakopoulos and the consistency of time. The truth is that he was the only one, and I would ask, as far as you can, that you do not go far beyond your time and tolerance, because we will escape at the end of the day. Mr. Jelloney, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, you have been dominated throughout the period of the economic crisis without any moral barriers and with extreme and unregulated populism. Sadly, however, for you the time today reveals you and history is circled and avenged. I am saying this to talk about the success of the market yesterday, where you are actually licking where you were spitting. You only forgot to tell the Greek people that yesterday's exit is not a success compared to what you received in 2014. On the contrary, you charged the Greek people with an additional 100 billion, mortgaged the property of the Greek people for a century and the Greek households with an additional 13 billion taxes. At least it would not be a delusion, but it would be brave from your side to ask for an apology from the Greek people, something that has not been heard to date. The bill we've been discussing today has been waiting for a long time. This is a bill that refers to local government. Local government is indeed the institution where interventions by those who exercise administration are reflected the next day in the public. At a time of economic crisis, while local government should be strengthened by the state in order to take the lead in social cohesion, but also in the productive reconstruction of the country, you are bringing a bill under the circumstances, simply by doing micro-directions. On the other hand, what we hear you are very interested in is bringing in a bill, transferring the self-government elections. Do it. It doesn't make any sense. The Greek people will also be charged with costs. The other and most important is the simple analogue that you want to bring. Because you have realised that you no longer have any social acceptance and you are trying with the small minorities to create obstacles to the operations of the municipality. However, as you mentioned, Minister, your hypersensitivity to the OTA workers, I would like to refer to a category of workers in municipal waste water treatment operations outside Athens and Thessaloniki. We are talking about workers, where, under your law of implementation of the single wage, they had lost close to 45% and had been entitled to the Court of Auditors, now come and lose an additional 25%, including workers who are insured in the IKA and who do not get any one in the single wage bill for civil servants. Do you think that was fair to you who spoke with sensitivity to workers beforehand? After you had it in as an article and knew you had to restore this injustice, why did you get it back? Are you planning on bringing it along? We agree, bring it in. We'd like a placement on it. We cannot have two different kinds of workers in like enterprises. We cannot have employees in JHA for regional and workers in municipal waste water treatment operations in Thessaloniki and Athens, because they are excluded from the Stock Exchange, while others in regional municipal enterprises, unfortunately, are children of a lower god. There must be a restoration for these workers here and now. I would also like to refer to the JEPs. Because you referred earlier to the 'COLLECTION' and 'CARBONTRIA'. I'd like to let you know something about the JEPs. All these reforms have a PASOK seal, which you then thought very much about if you would vote on. You bring reforms to it and we are here to support them, but not such small divisions. I would like to tell you now about the JEPs. At the moment, municipalities have been charged with a number of responsibilities for updating e-government in relation to transparency in public administration, and the municipalities should inform the Single Authority of Payments of the General Secretariat of Information Systems, the Hellenic Ministry of Interior’s Register of Human Resources, the “ERGAN” of the Ministry of Social Security, the Database of OTA Financial Database and Legal Persons of OTA, the Interoperability Party of the Ministry of Interior, the Integrated Information System for the Monitoring of Co-financed Works, the “DIAGY” Programme, the Central Electronic Register of Public Contracts, the National System of Electronic Contracts, the National Department and National Library, the Electronic Services of Insurance Funds. What kind of staff are these municipalities going to do with? With staff who do not have the relevant education and training to assist the specific work of the public administration. On the other hand, we have for this purpose the relevant services, the JEPs, where there, fortified behind their duties, the public, the employees of the JEPs, without being instructed by the municipalities, do not carry out this task. Minister, could we have your attention?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u131	You've got it. We're talking about you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u132	I'd be very happy to hear you. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. So I would ask: would you at least not be able to transfer these powers so that they are responsibilities for the JEPs, which have qualified staff? The municipalities cannot cope with these additional activities. They don't have neither personnel nor education. On the other hand, we have JEP workers, who have been created for this purpose, where they could actually carry out their work. I'm expecting an answer for the workers in the JHA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, Mr. Jelloney. The Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Famelos, has called for the floor in order to develop two amendments. Immediately after that, three fellow Members will follow the list of speakers and Mr Kefaloniann will be prepared, the Parliamentary Representative from New Democracy. Minister, how much time do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u134	Did we say ten minutes, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u135	Good. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am here to present two amendments, 1140/48, 1148/53 and to say a few words about the articles that have already been included in the draft law that I presented to the committee and which I have to present to you shortly thereafter two legislative texts. I am starting with the amendments to fulfil the obligations of the parliamentary procedure. Amendment No 1140/48 refers to the extension of the suspension of already posted forest maps until 7 September 2017. In fact, we have allowed the suspension time to be completed, in order to see the interest and the presence of citizens, farmers and general interest in the Support Centres and the Forest Services. It has already been noted since last week that there was a large load and that is why the circular had been issued to extend the submission of topographics. This week there was a lot of workload and a great turnout. We therefore believe that it is a good thing for citizens to join, even with a great deal of delay, because this concern has been expressed six months late and the need to speak with forest services, if you like. However, the great crowd of services obliges us to give sufficient time to all interested parties, because we, if you like, represent a view of the state, which is functional for the citizen, which serves the citizen and solves problems. And forest maps want to solve problems. Therefore, time will be given for all interested parties, for all the necessary actions, and this time will be single until 7 September, and for requests for change of use or for the approval of intervention and redemption, for objections to be made, for the submission of a manifest error request, but also for the sending by the municipalities of the settlements and settlements. So we won't use the circular for delayed topographic submission. It's all gone on September 7th. And we also give a significant advantage to the foreigners, to our immigrants, that is, who, when they come here in August, can use it to submit their information as well. So the deadline is until 7 September. But here, I have to say that there are still twenty municipalities, that is to say, less than 20% of the people responsible, who have not cooperated and have not sent their data. I therefore inform the National Representation that these municipalities are: Northern Kynuria, Gortynia, South Kynouria, Doxato, Peristeri, Oreokastro, Dodonnes, Kimolos, Milos, Mykonos, Sifnos, Eastern Mani, South Pelion, Skopelos, Ekalia, Pylos - Nestoros, Spetsons, Nea Protestidas, Sithonia and Chios. I must tell you that we have participated in two boards of the Central Association of Municipalities and there is an absolute agreement on the implementation of the project and the transmission of information from the municipalities. I have to say that this figure that is now 18% was 72% at the beginning of the post. There has been a great deal of progress. I should also like to inform the Minister for the Interior, who is also responsible for monitoring the Ottawas, that a letter will now be sent to the decentralised administrations, which exercise the legitimacy of the Otta's decisions, personally, to the mayors of all these Ottas, to the presidents of municipal councils, but also to the Ministry of the Interior, because there is now a delay in the implementation of a law which creates a restriction on citizens' rights and that cannot continue. I would ask that this time be used to resolve this problem. The second amendment, tabled, is Amendment No 1148/53, which deals with arrangements for speeding up realisation. Essentially, our country performs a titanium project, the completion of the Land register and forest maps. There is still 60% of the country's rights and 45% of the forest maps. There are already forty real estate studies contracts under way, pending the signature of another eight, and the completion of the ‘Standard 16’ competition is pending, including thirty more two contracts, which will be signed in October 2017. So we have an eighty-eighth budgeting agreement of 800 million. The timetable for 2020, the obligations of the country and the obligation to meet the obligations of the employer and of the scholars without deterioration in the quality of landfilling, obliges us to table this amendment, which enables the CSR, the CSR, the CSR, to conclude project lease agreements, while respecting a fully transparent and valuable process through ASP for scientists, in the majority of engineers, about sixty people - the majority of them are engineers, but also has forestists, informants and economists - who will supervise this titanium work of EUR 800 million as an object of implementation by 2020. Therefore, the possibility of a tendering procedure, with the supervision and control of the AACC, is allowed only for works lease contracts. At the same time, the Minister for the Environment and CSR proposal are given the opportunity to resolve the extrajudicial correction of manifest errors. This is more legal, because the OPCW had until it had changed and abolished this right. The change in CRP does not provide for who resolves the issue of the out-of-court resolution of a manifest error. These are the two amendments, which are linked to two legislative improvements, and I shall be tabling them. The first is the amendment we tabled on forest plantations, which excludes them from forestry legislation. It is defined in the legislation that it concerns only forest plantations, so that there is no misunderstanding. The second amendment concerns an amendment tabled by the holders of the register, which in the 'consent' is added to the phrase 'in the light of the legality check, the competent body shall be given the agreement'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u137	Finally, I would like to refer to some articles in the bill. First of all, I welcome the planned introduction and resolution of Article 134, which concerns the possibility of trading recyclable materials and energy, which is now given to the municipalities, since this actually strengthens the circular economy, but also recycling, and enables the municipalities to reduce the public's compensation fees, supply the economy and work, and to have an improvement in the country's recycling and environmental performance. I think that this article should be supported. I also believe that there is no political reason not to support this. With great interest we will also see the placement of opposition parties. Mr. Vorides knows. I already told him.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u138	I said yes!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u139	I mean, Mr. Voridis, I'll see it in the vote. However, you know, Mr Vorides, it turns out here who is favouring healthy entrepreneurship and the new economy, because if that were necessary, it should be regulated for decades in our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u140	I hope this is our competition!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u141	And I wonder why you supported, participating in governments, bureaucracy and deadlocks and self-government. That's what you've done so far. And with the articles 140 to 145, with my amendment to the committee, major bureaucratic problems in forestry legislation are solved, and the citizen can now be served with a certificate of topography for everything that is set out in the maps. The possibility of an extension to regulate serious activities such as livestock facilities, ski resorts, aquaculture, non-regulated OTA water supply projects is allowed. Artificial plantations are exempted from forestry legislation, the forestry committees are released, and the citizen is allowed, based on Law 998/79, which we are doing because it was not, to exploit forested fields in whatever form they are today, even if the country's afforestation has been modified. We are also giving an extension of three years to the concessions, which are now considered to be a legal act of the administration. In addition, we allow the citizen to be served in addition to the land registers and forestry services. It must be possible to quickly have the papers needed for an economic activity, for an investment, for a farm or building permit, which are also released to farms of another use - not forestry - by completing the suspension of forest maps with the article that has been submitted. We are therefore improving the performance of services, reducing burdens on the citizen and giving services and the economy functionality. This also gives many benefits to economic activities. Finally, I would like to say that it is true that these choices made more widely in the draft law on self-government enable selfgovernment to function and escape the problems of decades that had not been solved. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I think that for the first time, self-government has - and I say this, Mr Minister, because I have said this and, as far as it works - with the law that you have put forward - but also with the commitment - to the amendment that you have tabled on recruitment so that democratic programming can actually be carried out in self-government and that selfgovernment has not had the right to do so so so far. That means a substantial view in favour of self-government. Mr Vorides, I listened with great interest to a colleague of yours who said there are lost days on our own responsibility, with the responsibility of the government. Indeed, Mr. Voridis, there are days lost. There are days lost for an old system of power, which was dived into fraud and created delusion in society and is even trying to deceive the citizens, because instead it is a government that does not have parties and does not bake lambs when it comes to the markets, because it knows that everyday life needs to be improved. If you were now in the government, you would have set up a park in the Constitution with what happened yesterday and at the lowest interest rate. However, we know what a success is. It is a lie when the Opposition says it was charged with 100 billion dollars in our own negotiation. And very simply, Mr Voridis, I would ask you to submit the annual government debt account to see that in the last two years it has not increased and it is a lie that you are constantly saying. Well, official invitation. If you have evidence of an increase in public debt of 100 billion euros, there are public accounts, bring them to Parliament, and then we will applaud you. But you can't stand doing it because it's not real. The official record shows that both numbers and indicators are better, such as the labour index. You were obviously interested in the banking performance index of some stock exchange indicators. We're interested in work. But we know that indicators do not make everyday life any better. Our responsibility is to make everyday life better. That's what this bill does. Improves the functioning of the municipalities, which are local development cells. It is something that has never been in the ideology of a conservative right-wing, overconservative party, which you have also served, because it is bothering you, democracy brings you allergy. And government is a democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Constantine Barbarousis has the floor for seven minutes from Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u143	Thank you. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] Today July 26, Agia Paraskevi, I would like to say many years on Friday and on Friday. Once again, in the middle of the summer, we will be working with fire, despite the heat and the heat, for the good of the Greek people! Because, as we are well known here, we are only interested in the good of the Greek people! This time we have a bill that includes arrangements for the modernisation of JHAs, as well as arrangements for better functioning of TATs. That's a nice title, isn't it? The Greek citizen can easily be lured. However, let us pass on to the reality, which is no other than this, that we are talking about a bill which, in addition to the regulations for the municipalities, also includes specific arrangements for private officials with unlimited and fixed time periods of municipality, while opening new recruitment windows mainly for the construction of television and radio stations in the municipalities. More specifically, compensation to the President of the Board is increased if he is not the mayor, while employees working as private law for an indefinite period are also settled. For example, in the event of the settlement of an anonymous OTA company, of which 90% of the share capital belongs to the local authority concerned, personnel with a relationship with private law of indefinite duration shall be transferred to individual positions of the relevant OTA. In the meantime, the development of public limited liability companies do not belong to public sector entities, are not financed directly or indirectly by the TETs and are not owned by the TETs in order to achieve a self-government objective. But in paragraph 2, there is a clear reference to their participation in a national financial programme. And what does that mean? Of course, the burden of the state budget and the financing of companies by it. Also, theoretically, since these companies have a positive corporate use and are actively involved in European or national programmes, they are not solved and continue to operate. However, it is laid down in paragraph 2 that their operation continues even if they have three consecutive injurious corporate uses. It is also stated that the participation of the company in a national or European programme constitutes its credibility and solvency, as well as serving the general objectives of the public interest. But if a simple business, a private person, has three injurious corporate uses, do you know what would happen? Of course he'd put a padlock on. Well, that's pretty acid-associated, that's what it's like. Further, in the articles of this Legislation, we note that the possibility of transferring the municipality of personnel to the same employment relationship of municipal enterprises with a specific purpose for the operation of radio is available. This staff shall, in fact, be classified in personal positions, taking into account their pre-service and grading and wage trends. Of course, in another article the costs of traveling and resting workers at the PPC are recognised. The bill also extends the payment of compensation to all anti-majorities without the anticipated population restrictions, while the members of the municipal council are now eligible for compensation. Article 36 permits the exercise of duties of a special adviser, a special partner and a scientific partner of regional and counter-regions to a lawyer who will carry out his profession at the same time. On the other hand, other free traders in another sector will be allowed to pursue their profession at the same time, but following a decision of the Regional Council, taking into account the specific features of the circumstances in question. We are talking about equal treatment of the two categories! Of course, there is no lack of reference in the bill to European territorial cooperation groups. Once again you want to pass on to us that the borders are not barriers. Furthermore, it is noteworthy that while you are referring to European groups, you say that the Minister for the Interior can also approve the participation of a third country. How a third country is now European and how you will allow it to enter, we cannot understand that. You know what? The last speaker of PASOK who said the bill had a lot of PASOK in it, was right, and I think this bill stinks too much. Why am I saying that? Because it was PASOK's logic. He appointed as many as he could to secure the vote of the appointed and their relatives. That's what you do now. On the one hand, you sell all the public property and on the other you create new appointment posts. You are making fun of the Greek people for once and you are telling him that we are on the market, while the reality is that you are charging the country and nothing more. I really do! Personally, it bothers me that you are dealing with the Greek citizen as a fool and that you cannot understand what is going on and not just you but you all do it. On the one hand we have SYRIZA and Tsipras celebrating that we have come out on the markets and on the other, we have Mitsotakis, who have fallen all the communists on him and are trying to present him to us as tomorrow's savior that he is a simple, popular, everyday man, which, of course, is not the case. Man is clearly in another social class. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm done. Of course, to avoid misunderstanding, I personally do not mind each man’s social order, as long as he wants the good of his homeland. What bothers me is lying and hypocrisy. I have nothing more to add for the bill. All I have to say - and I will close with it - is that seeing all of you in here how you think and how you operate, God put his hand on, not live other national tragedies! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My fellow Member from the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Constantine Steriou, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we also consider this bill on its class side, namely whether it serves workers' working and wage rights if it offers modern and cheap services to citizens. We say that this bill does not do what we say, because one of the main things to happen is the recruitment of permanent staff, who are not, because you are committed, Mr Minister, to '4 to 1', which does not have much difference from '5 to 1', which the New Democracy said before as an argument - but also to the maintenance of the lousy working age of about fifteen thousand workers working with eight months, two months of seasonal workers, but who know this very well that they meet the constant and constant needs of the OTAs and who you have been consciously deceived for years. This great problem of pensioners came with tension in the current situation following the Court of Auditors' decision on their dismissal and, of course, the subsequent mobilisations. Thousands of contractors with the support of permanent workers have given a heroic struggle, which we supported with all our powers, because it was fair, fighting for the right to permanent and stable work, against the thousands of redundancies that have already been launched, but have already been made by several municipalities - you know it - regardless of the manoeuvres you have made and attempted to eliminate the mobilisations and manage this huge problem. Your course as government and you personally, Minister, in the case of contractors, is depicted in the words deception, hostage, dismissal, unemployment. Answers, Mr. Minister, your bill on the right of contractors to permanent and stable work with full rights? Crystal no. Does it respond to the need of local families for high-level cleaning, watering and other structures that are responsible for the ATTs? No, of course, since many municipalities have already been made redundancies of contractors and with your own calculations, the redundancy of over ten thousand workers has been started and you said here for two and a half thousand recruitments. You are very galantic, Minister. For the government we will simply say: what hypocrisy! Because the dismissal of thousands of contractors, the fact that many of them have been unpaid for months, is precisely the result of the implementation of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL of the same anti-corruption laws that the government has not abolished, despite the polluting promises that it has constantly made to permanentize the contractors. This is because you faithfully serve the policy of capital that is shielding and expanding the flexibility in the labour market, the continuous recycling of a large part of the working class. Of course you're not alone in this anti-patient project that you're doing. You have consistent partners beside you New Democracy, PASOK, all the urban parties that you have voted together - and you are now implementing - the memorandums. You have with you the vast majority of municipal authorities, who embrace the strategy of the European Union and capital and who treat workers as recyclable material. This anti-government legal framework that exists today, and on this basis you are relying on redundancies and on flexibility in the labour market, has not suddenly appeared in the period of the memorandum, as you say - because that is what you say 'it is not our fault' - but it has its roots in the Maastricht Agreement, the White Paper, the Lisbon Treaty, other conditions of the European Union that you have voted on. The European Union, and you have all this pictured. These measures were also implemented in the period of economic recovery. Therefore, claiming the right to permanent and stable work brought contractors to the government, urban parties, European Union directives, constitution, laws, Memorandums, State mechanisms, major business groups that seek to take on profitable OTA structures, as well as the media that they control. All of these are the black front, which consistently and strategically opposes any claim to the working class. But the orientation, massity and intensity of the mobilization have uncovered the way the black front has acted, which has again shown his dreadful face, because he has attacked organisedly and has seen the dynamics that can be shaped by this struggle. The government, which has been systematically deceiving expectations of continuous declarations throughout the past period, has shown itself to be consciously chosen to do dirty work on behalf of capital. But he took another dirty step further. The great aspect of the struggles has highlighted the convenience with which social democracy - that is, you today - can go to extremes of reactionary positions and practices. By posting "AGEY", your newspaper, to reduce the right to strike gave the tone, the direction to be followed, in order to support the profitability of business groups. But he testified that he had agreed for the next period to go further in reactionary directions. It is precisely these deadlocks for the workers created by the way the economy is organised, that the JRC's position for organising the economy with central planning, which will focus on satisfying the needs and providing permanent and stable work for all the workers. The class trade unions and the fighting committees have tabled a proposal for a law, which we have fully supported and which you have not accepted at all, because this proposal runs counter to the ideology of the capital you serve and wants workers who are poorly paid, so that there can be profitability and competitiveness. Therefore, with all that I have said, the core and philosophy of your bill is in the direction of the European Union's strategy for municipalities - businesses, for the dive of services and for the creation of citizens. It is hypocrisy to talk about protection measures for workers, Minister, when the municipalities - you know - have incomplete staff, flexible working relationships, inconsistent and old fleets, women's work behind scrapers in the name of equality, non-compliance with health and safety measures and, indeed, without administrative sanctions. These are catastrophic violations, forcing workers to overwork and circumvent the starvation without a day of rest. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, if I may, I would like another and a half minutes. All of this, together with the fact that in many cases the PPEs, doctors and safety technicians are lacking, and there is a temporary lack of work experience - and indeed in one de facto unhealthy and dangerous subject of work - are factors that exacerbate the creation of accidents. The result, of course, of all these deficiencies is tragic, because so far six major accidents have been recorded in 2017 and the death of two workers. However, even from the arrangements you bring to the PPE bill, Article 97, Minister, you do not include workers in the regions who work in unhealthy work. You have the record. Why don't you say first and second grades? Say it. Why don't you do it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u146	I did. Same again? There has been a legislative improvement since yesterday. I said it from the Step. You keep saying that? Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u147	Do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u148	It's done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u149	Tell us one more thing. You are excluded from granting a benefit for dangerous and unhealthy work - Article 98 - the thousands of workers in the regions, who work in places where they are entitled to it. Dangerous and unhealthy professions include workers of road markings and colours of all kinds in municipalities, which are not included. Even so, these arrangements are hypocritical and touch the limits of the lie, because since the end of 2017 the BAE has been abolished, according to the Memorandums. In Article 89, Mr Minister, if you are so kind as to be able to recruit workers for five days a month. What's that? Does anyone live with five payrolls of 20 euros a month? 'No' will be said. So we insist once again - and here it is our position - that municipalities should have permanent staff so that they can cover services which come out and be of high quality at any time. In Article 91 - and I end with it - you have forced workers in the island regions to go to other regional units. In other words, instead of hiring to cover the jobs, you are recycled to the existing staff, thus intensifying the work. I'm ending with Article 96. Where did that sound? Read it, colleagues of SYRIZA. You're going to make a police raid to find out if a patient who has a sick leave, approved by doctors, health councils and committees, is inaccurate at home. What can we say? Is this part of a climate of terror and intimidation of workers? But how far can this situation go? How far are you going to be? I just want to say what our people say, that the curse often doesn't end. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, have you asked for the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u151	Yes, Mr. President. I would like to say that the two amendments tabled by Mr Famelos are acceptable. It is the amendment with a general number of 1140 and a special 46 and an amendment with a general number of 1148 and a special 53. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Minister. The floor has been raised by the Independent MEP George - Dimitrios Karras for seven minutes, with tolerance, of course, as everyone does, not to blame you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u153	Mr President, I think that after four meetings of the committee and after today's debate in plenary, the time has come for the evaluation of the bill. So the bill comes in and is enriched by ministerial amendments, which, of course, - I have made this up again - nothing to do with the law nor even a hint of contact. For example, fourteen ministerial amendments, nine of which are completely different topics. I have a thought. How will the lawmaker, and in particular the administration, identify - and it is a daily phenomenon, not only the phenomenon of today's legislature - what has changed, what is the case? Can I give an example for forest maps? I had become a veteran of evil during the debate, and I said that he has flaws. It's confirmed today. We are prolonging a deadline, and I am sure, ladies and gentlemen, that it will be extended again, because we will not have forest legislation at the end, it will not be approachable, there will be errors by the services as well, and we will be leading to cancellations, withdrawals and new applications. So let us say that these issues can be overcome. I spoke about the assessment of the bill, as submitted to the committee. It's irritating. There is no doubt that it is an irradiation that wishes to introduce regulations on various points which, in the opinion of the acceding government, have been vacant. However, these provisions as a whole give rise to a squeeze of growth in the public sector. There is no doubt that while they appear to serve the functionality of local government, I have to say that I have made a great effort to identify how they will serve the citizen, how they will facilitate his life, which Greeks do not live the best days today. So we said to restore any mistakes of the past. What's the result? Functionality in the form of enlargement of the public sector and in particular of the self-government? The result in everyday life has troubled me, I haven't found it, and I don't expect, as long as the debate is over, to see it. I will give two examples, ladies and gentlemen, for which I have tabled two amendments. In this bill, of course, I did not have the opportunity and the honour of dealing with the Ministry with them - his right - the Minister has the responsibility. The first was simple, simplistic. Who was she? That I asked for an obligation on the DEDEE, when a property's electricity is stopped, to communicate it to the municipality. To raise a question whether or not to interrupt the municipal fees. The first answer - and I will comment on it - was totally naive. I was told it was useful for the municipal fee of cleanliness and for the lighting in favor of the owner. And when it's empty and not used? What use is it? If the municipality wants revenue, it has the MSF from the point of view of the form of the property tax. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] Yesterday, things got worse when I reinstated my motion for a legacy. I was told, as a counterproject, that PPC - says - informs the person who interrupts supply. Everything he has to go to the municipality must be kept informed of the interruption in order to stop charging and payment of fees. Well, no, I did not expect, ladies and gentlemen, to hear that from an official lips. I am therefore tabling for confirmation of the commentary of accounts - models such as from the Internet of all electricity providers, not just PPC, are three providers, who do not mention anywhere. All I've found was in the DEDEN, which says the law, how you get discharge from municipal fees. How does the citizen make it easier for his everyday life? It's not easy. It's a tax procedure. I asked for it to be facilitated. It has no financial impact on the reason that it does not eventually collect, people go to court and come to their souls. He wasn't heard. The responsibility is not mine, it's the government. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Georgios-Dimitrios Karras, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The clandestineness of legislation now. He's bringing in the cremation of the dead. I have no objection to the incineration of the dead. After all, it is something that is necessary under the present conditions. It won't work. I'm not going to be a veteran of evil again for this reason. What did I ask for with an amendment? To accompany private individuals' right to operate incineratorials from the right to establish freezer mortars by those taking over the ceremonies. Because today, the only one who has the right to keep cool morgues is hospitals for those who deviate in hospitals and only for the hospital in which they died, the morgue when it is presented to morgue or unclaimed, for scientific reasons, that goes to anatomy class and municipal cemeteries. How will the relative, who wants to say goodbye to his dead coming from abroad, coming from another part of Greece, who wants to have a year to be able to say goodbye to him? Will maintenance precede or maintenance hygiene needs directly enforce incineration? How's it going to happen? And after all, why is the family going to be charged with continuous transport? Why would she be burdened with looking for where her dead are to say goodbye to him? It has been said that we can incinerate, but functionality has not been given. I think these two examples I have brought, ladies and gentlemen, confirm my position that this bill also does not seek to facilitate or improve life, the daily life of the citizen. It only seeks to make the public big, without being able to accept that they serve everyday life. Can I give you examples? Not to go to the 1998 AAP competition. In 1998 they were twenty-five, these people were thirty. Today they're fifty-five. What do you expect them to offer to the public? I'm not against them, but I'm looking at the service. Do you know what they'll bring to the public only? Actions for damages for the twenty years, wronged. Orders, claims, and we will again create a new set of requirements, which will never end. I think, therefore, that, in order to finish, Mr President, and not to abuse your tolerance, the present government at least does not approach any day-to-day problems, does not address them on the basis of the few of these examples, which I have brought you, only cares about facilities and arrangements and is a fact which not only regrets me. It leads me to comment on it and to constantly wrap it up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, Mr Ioannis Kefaloyannis, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, Mr President. I'll start with the positive. After too many months, Minister, a bill comes with the normal procedure in the House. And, of course, what should normally be self-evident about legislative function, unfortunately in recent months is the exception to the rule, and now we have come to the conclusion that this is a modus operandi on the part of the government, namely the fact that it brings urgent and urgent bills. Be careful, they are bills which do not, for example, concern provisions imposed by the troika or the institutions and must pass within 24 hours. For example, last week we passed a bill on copyright and brought it under the urgency procedure. Two weeks ago we passed sport law - some of Mr Vassiliou's provisions - again under the urgency procedure. It is something that we have told you on several occasions in this Chamber, which, unfortunately, you have also criticised, when you were in the opposition and, of course, when you came to the government, not only maintained it, that is, the bad practices of the previous years, but unfortunately you have also become as bodies and perhaps fathers and mothers of this process. But let's go to negatives too. Unfortunately, we see a bill being overwhelmed by amendments. I am not referring to the amendments tabled by my colleagues from the Opposition, but if you put the ministerial and the amendments, which have been brought by Members of Parliament, you will see that it is a number of fifteen to twenty and possibly by the end of the process to see more. I'm reporting an incident, Minister, to understand. I was in a village of Rethymnon this weekend and a man asks me, with a lot of naturalness, if we're going to take a vacation. And I say to him 'two - three weeks may the House close'. And he asks me very naturally, "What if you need to pass some amendments?" Take note, that is, in the memory of the people, that the House is not legislating, that it is going through amendments. It is something that we all have to see and perhaps it is one of the main issues of democracy, namely the fact that a very large part of the electorate, citizens of Greeks and Greeks have shown that the legislative process is by means of amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, if I should describe this bill in a few words, I honestly do not believe that there are better than the Prime Minister's own words, at least as Mr Varoufakis captures them in his famous book, where at some point mentioning Mr Drasakis says: 'We need to move in two ways, a public and a secret. In other words, we must approach creditors in a right-wing way, that we are the good guys and at the same time in the background to prepare our counter-attack." Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, you have been ruling over the last two and a half years, namely by the two-way system, a secret and an obvious one. But we say to satisfy the people, lenders, capital, friends and enemies, and others plan underground. It is clear, then, that the country is staying in the euro, but, unfortunately, with the various actions which are being taken, this conquest of our country is even being called into question. And of course, if you're a minister, depending on what you think, you're following one way or another. Of course, with Mr. Tsipras in a wheelchair role. Until two years ago, SYRIZA officials gathered like bees around Mr Varoufakis - then Minister of Finance - in order for him to translate his thought and wisdom into them. Now Mr. Varoufakis has become handwriting. A lot of people even do what you don't know about him. And his plan was weak and ineffective. Really, ladies and gentlemen, what exactly was Mr Varoufakis' plan weak and ineffective? To survive outside the euro? Mr. Tsipras in this Chamber in July 2015, even addressing Mrs. Gennimatas, did he not say that Mr. Varoufakis' parallel payment system is an extremely useful project? At the suggestion of Mr Varoufakis, did you not promise billions on the Thessaloniki project, and did you even say that we would go out on the markets and dance pentosal? Wasn't Mr Varoufakis the government's great asset? Mr. Tsipras did not characterise the issue of a bond in 2014 as a set-up theatrical performance and a loan shark party with a interest rate that one sees, as Mr. Vorides said, the spreads - the German in particular - at the moment we borrowed at a higher interest rate than we borrowed in 2014. So today the government - and the Minister said it - is celebrating that they came out on the markets and in fact we exchanged those turmoil bonds in 2014. Of course, the answer in the form of the new account in this gross cheating of the Greek people is that Mr Tsipras was infinite. That he didn't feel what he was dealing with. And I wonder when Mr. Tsipras overthrowed the previous government, voting against the President of the Republic, was he inexperienced? When he was giving billions to Thessaloniki, was he infinite again? When accusing the MPs and the government officials of the counterpopulation and PASOK as lame and traitors, was it again infinite? Anyway, what exactly does Mr. Tsipras say to us? That we had damage of 100 billion, that we were loaded with two extra memos, that we handed over the national property to a superstition for ninety-nine years, because it was inexperienced? Honestly, I really do not know which man with elementary self-respect who made this statement would not resign the next moment. But, of course, the answer is ready. You will listen to many -- he says -- to blame us for being liars, but no one that we are corrupt and immoral. In other words, if I understand correctly, ladies and gentlemen, we have come to say to the Greek people that cheating, lying, deception is a moral attitude. Isn't that what Mr. Tsipras tells the Greek people? I mean, after the assumption he had delusions, he's now saying he's got regular scams. Of course, it is a very convenient explanation that Mr Tsipras invokes his mistakes and inexperience. But from the mistakes, we all learn. The accident is, however, that you are not learning and you really do not understand why we have led to bankruptcy and you are coming today with this bill - what we are discussing today - to prove that perhaps the only thing that you are interested in at the outset is in creating a critical mass for your stay in power or even better in managing your upcoming defeat. There are in this bill a number of characteristic provisions that testify to both your real intentions and, as you will allow me to say, the moral background of these intentions. Of course, the koruna of these provisions, as our rapporteur has mentioned, is Article 100, which I think condensates all the philosophy of governance SYRIZA and Independent Greeks for the last two and a half years. Minister, because I like the numbers, 15 people were registered today by the SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks to support your bill. Just 15% of the MPs who support the government. That's what I think he's saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u156	It was only written by you two!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u157	You support the bill. Where are the MPs, where's the good bill you're supporting? Fifteen people from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group and none of the Independent Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u158	There are parallel committees...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u159	It is our fault that there are parallel committees!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u160	Please stop so that the speaker can continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u161	I understand that what you're hearing is unpleasant, but it's reality. I'm coming back to Article 100. So, what do you do with this article? In fact, you are definitively dismissing disciplinary and criminal prosecutions carried out under Law 4093/2012 against municipal officials and representatives of the ATT, who have not provided data on OTA workers to the Ministry of Administrative Reform. In fact, Mr Minister, you are driving the public into a general disobedience, which you are in fact looking after as well as morally, since in the explanatory statement you say that those acts which did not send the evidence do not involve moral and social deceptiveness. And I ask: is this the so-called moral advantage of the Left? So, does disobedience to the law involve any moral and social deception? Be careful, a law of the Greek state - I am not saying whether it is right or wrong - did not fall as an anti-constitutional to have another debate. It's an active law. And you come here today and tell them that it does not involve moral and social decency. In fact, I have something to suggest to you. How would you like to know whether the New Democracy was in power and, for example, came in Article 41 of this bill and said that it abolishes the criminal prosecutions - so that my fellow Members know - regarding the possibility and obligation of the municipalities to send their financial statements, that is, if the municipalities do not send them? So there will be a new government and it will be said that if the municipalities do not send their financial statements, then I will take them out again, and I am abolishing and dismissing criminal prosecutions? Do you know what you'd come to say then? You'd say three surnames. You would say that this is a dangerous, immoral and rospheric device. And yet that's exactly what you do with Article 100. Unfortunately, you don't stop there. It comes last night that the Scientific Committee of the Parliament tells you that once there are pending criminal prosecutions, which, of course, you are legislating as non-generating, you are intervening in the exercise of judicial service, even affecting the separation of powers under Article 26 of the Constitution. And I wonder whether that really was what Mr Tsipras had in mind when he replied to Mr Sakellariou that there was a problem when justice intervened in politics, that is, if that was what the government had in mind when it was talking about overcoming the limits from justice. However, Article 100, ladies and gentlemen, is only the tip of the iceberg. There are many outrageous aspects of this bill, but due to time I will only confine myself to one. The first concerns - and our rapporteur has mentioned it in Articles 80-82 - the attempt at mass appointments. But look at how it relates to the previous issue. If you really know what needs the municipalities have had, that is, if you insist on the self-evident fact that the OTAs do not send information with the workers in these positions and they are subject to sanctions, if you know who really works in what positions and what qualifications, then you might be able to follow a rational recruitment plan and really help the municipalities to meet their needs. Obviously, this is in detail the fact that they are completely unknown how many people are involved in these provisions. It's perhaps detail for you that empty organic positions are minimal. Perhaps it is a detail that many of these persons do not qualify for the work they are required to accomplish. And of course, it is a detail that we do not know how much these recruitments will cost. Unfortunately, it is important for you to show the left face of your government. And if they can't be implemented, it'll be the lenders once more. However, what I really think the government has taken it to the end was in the order that Mrs Gerovali has brought. In other words, he is resurrecting the 1998 SAAP competition, twenty years later, for personal positions and reintroducing them through the provisions you are proposing. We referred to Articles 80-82 for 2009 competitions and I saw a disturbance. You took it back, in 1998, twenty years later. In fact, you are reintroducing an APA competition, which, as Mr Vorides said very well, is only valid for two years, you are doing it twenty years later and you are reintroducing it. So, that's the message you want to pass? Is that the message of your own governance? Ladies and gentlemen, the government majority suggests that it has society on its part in the bill. In reality, of course, society, namely the Greek taxpayer, is the great absentee in the debate on this bill. And the bodies that have been invoked and some of the Members of the Co-Population are good to put them aside, because you invoke them a card. Let me remind you that in the copyright bill, all the bodies that came and testified were opposite. In the bill, now that it's for education, the precursors are across the street. In the bill, which you are also discussing about advertising time, operators are across the street. So, in one case, are operators good and in the other case are bad? Unfortunately, in the education bill you're turning the country back far beyond the 1980s. For the bill concerning advertising time, unfortunately, you are abolishing basic provisions, including the Civil Code, on individual freedoms and on the freedom of contracts. The truth is - and I am closing with this, Mr President - that bills such as those for Ottas, such as for education and the media, will go to the people when elections are held. We will go, as well as as as government and as opposition, to claim the Greek people's crisis, of course. Obviously, both of us, Minister, will have our flag and Article 100 and Article 45 and Article 80. But then we really need to see who has the people on his side and who doesn't have it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Georgios Papaliou has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the opposition parties, in particular the New Democracy and the PASOK, are in a discomfort after their denial and their last destructive account. Thus, when discussing the current draft law, as in most of the previous ones, they repeat "the same motto as known", that is, the current bill does not have a central idea, but that it is a synonym, an irradiation of rhetorical provisions. It should be pointed out that during the present period, daily life is running at a rate of constant legislative and other interventions. This is not only a reason for the memorial period that we are going through, but also, more generally, because of the daily complex everyday life and the problems of the day-to-day problems that need immediate and urgent attention. The discomfort of the Officer-in-Office in particular is exacerbated by the fact that, as shown by her position in the committee responsible and in plenary, she is voting - or seems to be voting - on many of the arrangements contained in this bill, even some of which are at odds with the principle, as the rapporteur has said in the committee responsible. Why is that? The Rusphetological logic of the current bill is contradicted, because this is where the well-known is, "he said the well-known pedestrian quadruped the stone capital." Ladies and gentlemen, weaknesses, problems, as well as factors which have a negative impact on the ability to exercise effectively the role of the mission and the responsibilities of local government have been identified and highlighted for years. That is why there is a need for a deep progressive section that will institutionalise the area of local government. This need is expected and is planned to be covered by the forthcoming draft law on institutional reconstruction of local government that will allow it to assume its democratic and development mission, based on the principles of democracy, efficiency, transparency, participation, justice and equality. In the meantime, however, there is a need for important arrangements on issues of everyday life, organisation, operation and economics, which cannot wait, which cover gaps and shortcomings in the past and which concern the administration of local government bodies, workers to them and the citizens themselves. This is what this bill serves. I'm going to try and categorize the issues that are regulated by the bill, for example. In particular, these issues concern local government, without, of course, claiming an integrated record and their development. Modernising the institutional framework governing municipal water and sewerage operations is necessary to enable them to respond to the latest developments. The JHA is also intended to be non-profit-making, without this implying that they should not seek and be profitable. I'm barely there. The JHA must formulate their pricing policy in accordance with the principle of recovering water costs laid down in Community and corresponding national legislation. They are expected to have the possibility of special invoices for socially and economically vulnerable groups. The social nature and their role is thus highlighted. New ones such as the management of renewable energy and natural gas sources, irrigation, bottling of water, etc., which have as a benchmark water and are in line with modern conditions are added to the existing ones, so that training and knowledge of skilled executives are exploited and their employment in these companies is ensured. In addition, the current draft law regulates issues relating to the organisation and functioning of the ATTs and their legal persons, regulating and specialising issues of the licensing of pediatricians, the operation of Municipal Regional Theatres and other undertakings of the self-government, with a view to improving the quality of life of citizens. Rusfetti is that, as the Opposition says? The municipalities, to the extent that they did not operate and operate municipal undertakings with a specific purpose of operating a radio or television station, are allowed to participate in existing such undertakings operating in neighbouring municipalities or municipalities in the same region. Thus, over-locally, information is being promoted, local issues are being raised on a wider basis, but also over-local cultural manifestations. Rüsfetti, therefore, is also the information, as the Opposition says. The existing legislative framework, which regulates the setting-up of municipal enterprises, which undertake to support the candidacy of a city in order to become a cultural capital of Europe and provides for the possibility of granting the respective undertaking by the OTA concerned, as well as for the conclusion of programme contracts between them. Thus, the institution of the cultural capital is becoming a vehicle for the cultural, economic, tourist and, in general, development upgrading and strengthening of a city. Is the civilization and the promotion of the country, gentlemen of counter-population rhetoric rhetoric? I would also like to refer to regulations aimed at resolving major problems relating to specific professional groups. The first concerns doctors and nurses, staff of EKAV and teachers of all levels, who are the head of the spear to reconstitute the social state in the fields of health and education, which was demolished in the years of the memoranda, as well as the staff of ELAS, the Port Authority, the Fire Service, which protects citizens from illegality, crime, natural and other disasters. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Thus, these professional incentive groups are given to move them into border and island regions which need greater support. The second example, as I mentioned earlier, establishes the Civil Registry as an information system, set up by the elements of the registers and registers. This simplifys and automated procedures to serve citizens. I mean, one last thing. It is a good thing that the Minister for Civil Protection has tabled an amendment to extend the list of successful five-year obligation fire extinguishers. It's a good start. I would, however, like to add that it is also necessary to deal with seasonal fire extinguishers, many of whom have been working for years on forest protection and have gained huge experience in fire-fighting. In conclusion, the current bill, ladies and gentlemen, could be voted for by all the parties in this House. But it seems that the opposition parties, in particular the New Democracy and the PASOK, are, as I said at the outset, going against it. That is why, during the debate, they spoke in general terms and reproduced the well-known inaccuracies and distortions of television stations. They and they have been left with them, as have also the request for elections, which will also be asked after the next. I'm sure of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u164	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague, Maria Therlerite, from SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u165	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a bill which has received several names. There is a rich nomenclature: 'Russphetological', 'all material', 'Paspartate', etc. What exactly is this bill? It is a bill that comes to regulate years of problems faced by local government, which the local government itself was asking for. Because we all understand that since the implementation of the KALIKARATH and then there have been too many problems and these should be resolved. So this bill is just coming to solve all these problems. It also comes to modernise local government structures and functions and, of course, to regulate issues relating to workers. Before entering the real content of the bill, I would like to stress the following, on the basis of yesterday's and today's position of the rapporteur of the New Democracy, on what should be the criterion of each government. Mr Vorides wondered and, as he said, the criterion of each government must be the national or the public interest and not the few interests expressed by civil society actors. I won't argue. Indeed, the public interest is above private, personal or individual interest. I only wonder whether New Democracy had this in mind when, as a government, it made thousands of workers available, when they fired and when they placed parts and public goods on the private initiative. Then there is a question in the public interest! Perhaps then we will have to redefined the meaning of the public interest, and I hope that my colleague does not mean that the bill is against the public interest, or that covering vacant posts and that the government's attempt to support local self-government is against the public interest. As for the argument that there is a need for justification for the supervisions and the refusal that he and his resignation have on recruitment, it is indeed necessary to remember something simple and very clear. And because he wanted arguments, I'll refer to them. According to the research carried out by the social polycentric of the ADED, employment in the public sector decreased by two hundred and a half hundred twenty-three employees, 21%. This happened after 2013. The highest rates of reduction are found in the LAGs, approximately 19%. So, we realize what happened and how the public shrunk. And since this may not be enough for my colleague, I would like to refer to the collective bodies of local government, which, of course, are of course nothing but friendly to the government. What does the regional union say? That the subsistence of regions has decreased by 37%, by which the number of staff has decreased. In the meantime, responsibilities in the region have increased. What does the CSR say about subscribing? To find it in two main causes: to retire employees, who were naturally not innocent - we all realise that there was a reason for fear of availability at that time - and for the inability to recruit young workers. So this government is just coming to resolve this problem of substation, which is about the ATTs. The municipalities must therefore see to it that this subscribing is done. And that's what's happening. It does not do this with customer relations nor by appointing a body with party criteria, as it has been done in the past, but precisely by hitting the client state itself. And how does he hit it? Isn't the government's obsession with organizing projects in local government too? Isn't it obsessed to have a description of positions in the organogram? Isn't it obsessed to have the gaps and on the basis of these gaps to be recruited to local government? So who's building client relationships? We or anyone else who knew what they were doing in the past? And they come and say, "But, well, is it possible to appoint people who have succeeded through SAP twenty years ago or even eight?" And here we begin to believe that you really do not want to cover these gaps and needs in local government. Because 1: 4, this restriction which has been set by the institutions cannot be permanently forgotten. So how will recruitment be covered when there is one: 4? It is therefore a tank and these provisions governing the issues of the unrestricted by the AACC. I return to the first part of the draft law on the modernisation of the institutional framework for the functioning of the JHA. I am not talking about very much here, but what I would like to find is that, on the basis of the new institutional framework, the JHA is being managed by ordinary users of a public natural asset, water. Of course, it is very politically important, at the present time, that non-profit-making is explicitly foreseen. I will return here to comment on what was said yesterday, namely the proposal by the rapporteur of the New Democracy, not to include the term 'non-profit-making'. In fact, here we need to know very well what speculation means and that speculation is completely different from speculation. The rapporteur of the New Democracy has quite rightly analysed this and it was clear that this is a joint venture by the JHA. LEGALs are utilities that work for the public interest, manage an extremely valuable resource, such as water, for the common good, for the benefit of the citizens. At the same time, however, no one disagrees - and it is evenly intended - that it should be sustainable in order to cover costs, workers, maintenance, extension of a water network, costs, etc. So JHA must be viable businesses, which, however, do not speculate, but on the contrary return and return to the citizens and local society the benefits they gain as socially beneficial businesses. I understand, of course, that this is very difficult to understand, because this operation is outside the market and works beyond private interests. But that is how things are, at a time when the movements in favour of the commons are increasingly embraced. With regard to the other provisions, I would like to say that we are not surprised that the opposition is voting against abolishing the suspension of recruitment, that is, Article 18, and voting against provisions on the PPC. We forget the role played by the PPC in producing culture at the local and regional level. After all, Greece is not just Athens, as we provincials say. It also votes against Article 79 for appointments. I would like to say that the same obsession stifles all the denial of the opposition, of the persistence of the private sector, of the market criteria, despite what has been said about the public interest. It probably means defending the public interest, provided that it does not affect the market and private.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u166	Mrs. Comrade, you're done. You've spoken nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u167	I shall conclude, Mr President. Finally, I would like to say that there are provisions that favour the small and mountainous municipalities to solve their problem with regard to the shortage of workers and employees and we all remember the episode of Gadus. So, with these incentives, we hope that the remote regions will also be able to acquire staff. It is very encouraging that there is indeed the possibility of regulating the debts to TAs on very favourable terms. So we can say that a large number of our fellow citizens who are now weak can be in a position to meet the obligations, and hence to increase and collect income to the municipalities. I conclude by saying that it's really a bill that's trying to solve problems. It is not the expected reform and the change in the replacement of the 'CALL'. We think, however, that it is the starting point for a political dialogue that needs to start on what kind of changes need to be made and how all these problems are solved, with what we call brave reform in local government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u168	Thank you. Mr. John Shahinides has the floor since the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, Mr President. This draft law has been characterised by your co-government SYRIZA - ANEL as a bill - 'gum'. After using this terminology, I too am given the opportunity to describe it as "spray, wipe, you're done". "Lie" because the inspiring or inspiring of this bill only "sprayed" could have been. "Wild up", as far as it is left in places you want to exploit, your clientele. "Further to" as to the fact that soon your time has come to an end, what you have done over the past period. As far as this draft law is concerned, therefore, as we have pointed out at committee meetings, and also in plenary on the resolution of No 4467: 'Amendments to the provisions of forestry legislation and other provisions', the issue of forestry areas and of how they are to be registered, must be done with a new legislative framework based on seriousness and responsibility which gives real solutions to the problems of the rural area - and not just the population. From the result, this has never been done. In this sense the Ministry continues today with this amendment. I shall refer to the amendment on forest maps, because I consider it very appropriate, since six whole amended provisions have been incorporated as articles. In the first article, which was incorporated as Article 140, it is therefore clarified that, for the purpose of granting authorisation to intervene in forests, in forestry and grassland areas, which have been evacuated from 11 June 1975 to 17 March 2007 for an agricultural holding without the authorisation required by the relevant forestry authority and are so far cultivated, compliance with the conditions laid down are not required. Also, rural areas which have been rescued, but lacking titles and which are not forests, can only be used for agricultural and tree farming, without allowing for any further change of use. Forests and forestry areas, i.e. which have been illegally evacuated in the period 1975-2007 to be cultivated, may receive immediate authorisation for intervention, if they maintain their agricultural use, with a simple request by the party concerned. The legality of the grounded and outdated land shall arise following the probation of the jury of attestations to ownership. As we have already said, the permissible constructions on these areas can be made more specific. This does not mean, however, that we will not see a shed being a forerunner of countryside and other dwellings, since, under the pretext of a warehouse, a shed was built most arbitrary in the country. The second Article, which is incorporated as Article 141, provides for the setting up of a tariff committee per area within the jurisdiction of the forest management concerned and not at the headquarters of the decentralised administration concerned and stipulates that the chairman of the tariff committees will be the director of the county forests. The members of the committee are not paid, so it is considered that procedures are accelerated in committee, so the permissible interventions, forestry activities and no budgetary burden are released. In order to address the problem of lack of staff, administrative staff, the choice is to be made by administrative staff of the Forest Services concerned. This is a typical article, provided that there are no loopholes in the services and that they continue to function properly as well as possible. In the third article, which is incorporated as 142, the content of the map on non-tariff areas for which no objection has been raised and which are not covered by the derogations provided for. The forest management and not the land registers concerned for the landed areas shall hereinafter be the competent authority issuing the certificate accompanying any transfer, recommendation and change of property rights to the forest land after the ratification of the forest map. It is therefore possible to confirm the nature of the area - there has always been the forest - on the topographic chart by its author. It is therefore expected that building permits will be reinitiated. Under no circumstances is there any errors corrected, nor is the future better for the husk, which you yourself have chosen to create, the rulers. The procedures shall not be simplified. Today, a simple confirmation from a topographer is not enough to make the process impossible, nor does it reduce the cost for the citizen. If this is to speed up the procedures for issuing building permits, let the Minister responsible tell us how many of these permits are pending and, in particular, whether they relate to specific investments and are therefore cut off for the simplification of the procedure. The Minister should also be here to tell us what is going to happen in cases where, due to a lack of information, forest maps have been validated in the past, and nothing has been learned by the parties involved, who have turned to the Council of State, who have been charged with judicial and other expenses. I say this on the occasion of what is stated as a description of the content of the map on non-tariff areas on which no objection has been expressed. The fourth article, embedded as 143, refers to areas where there were artificial plantations prior to Law 4280/2014, which enabled them to be classified as forests and artificial plantations resulting from afforestation programs. This article provides for the adoption of an accreditation act characterising these areas of artificial plantations as outside forestry legislation, as they are artificial plantations created by their owners for afforestation programmes. The fifth article refers to forest cooperatives. It is a legislative improvement of Law 4423/2016. The law here provides for forest cooperatives to be set up with twenty-one people. In two parts of the law, they are to be dispersed when they fall under twenty-five people. So the partnership is solved when the members are reduced under twenty-one. In examining, however, L.4423/2016, which concerned forest cooperative organisations and other provisions, we stressed that they are being treated as autonomous entities and an institutional framework for their operation, with a view to resolving issues relating to the management and exploitation of forests, in order to allow sustainable management of forest ecosystems. It is, however, clear that the fragmentation with which you are legislating - and we have said so before - leads to sad results, misunderstandings, the creation of bad texts in general. So, by mistake, it was obviously a mistake for the members and you came to fix it a year later. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I still have one more article, Mr President, and I shall end. We do not welcome this practice and since at the time we had expressed ourselves negatively, we will obviously not support it now, because it does not correct any essential issue or any additional measures are taken to protect our natural wealth. I close, with the sixth article, which is incorporated as Article 145. Here is an extension of three years for the legalisation of defined projects and structures, which relate to livestock facilities in general, aquaculture, sacred temples, ski resorts and their facilities, such as water supply works, sports facilities of OTAs, camps operating within wooded areas without the authorisation required, in order to obtain the relevant approval or issue of the permits, namely environmental and town planning. The period of three years shall be extended to allow concessions on forest land to become definitive. The deadline had expired about a year ago. With regard to concessions, public forest land was either provisionally allocated to private individuals due to failure to pay the entire price or inability to verify the time within which the concession was granted, whether it was granted by temporary or definitive concessions to private individuals for agricultural use. The conditions of concessions shall apply after that period for granted areas. With the tabling of this amendment, which was incorporated as I have told you from Articles 140 to 145, it is clear that the need for a review of the overall framework governing forest maps, conditions and procedures for them is apparent. In no case, however, is there any errors corrected or the future of the coffin that you have created is better propelled. The characteristic of this situation is that in the last six months forest legislation has been modified by two laws, nine ministerial decisions, and six circulars have been issued. It is best to extend until 2020, and you are able to complete the forest maps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mrs. Vaki from SYRIZA has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill has caused acute controversies and objections to its fragmentary character, as we have heard, based on provisions that are supposed to be aimed at 'parents' services. Meetings characterised a contradiction: Credit and unanimous acceptance by the guest bodies and fire groups from the Opposition against the Government for rosphetological recruitments and attempted to rebuild the client's state. Restore the figures of Gortzos and Mavroyalou from a beautiful era of nostalgia of the old Greek cinema. Also, raise some bananas, cold warfare in the absence of a strategic plan, a vision, but also a lyric mania, to overturn this government at all costs, which, I would remind you, is a democratically elected government three times. You also recovered transfers on Soviet, Venezuelan, North Korean. You reached the point where a funny satirical site yesterday for the allowance is supposed to be reproduced by all your friendly means, from forms, from channels. It's, you know, those channels that we Madoro's friends control. So let me get into some of the provisions of the bill. Without being a deep reformist incision, this bill is a long way from being fragmentary and uncomfortable. He attempts to resolve very important issues of the operation and organisation of the Local Government bodies in order to be the headline for the transition of Law 3852/2010, known as "CALIKRATI", from a more operational and democratic framework of local government. In my opinion, the draft law is based on three elements: firstly, a spirit of support for vulnerable groups of people and social structures. Secondly, it turns its gaze to the opaque factors of the local government, to the workers who became consumable, flexible, employable, available, sometimes unpaid, recyclable like the waste they collected. And thirdly, the bill aims at rationalising and modernising local government, exempting citizens from unreasonable bureaucratic burdens. In the provisions - which I will briefly mention, as they have been thoroughly analysed by the rapporteurs - which facilitates citizens and strengthens municipal enterprises, let us distinguish the one hundred instalments for late payments to the municipalities, the reductions in municipal fees for sanitary enterprises, and the introduction of electronic terminals, as required by transparency and transparency for all local government agencies. Of particular importance, of course, is the provision of Article 51, which stipulates that the allowances granted by municipalities to vulnerable social groups are inappropriate and duty-free. I would like to dwell a little more on Article 32 of the bill, which allows not only mountain municipalities or municipalities with mountainous local communities, but also island municipalities with a population of less than eighteen thousand inhabitants, to provide incentives, i.e. free feeding and appropriate accommodation for doctors, nurses, educators, firefighters, personnel of the EAW, port and police staff working in these municipalities. With legislative improvement submitted by the Minister of Home Affairs, these beneficial arrangements will also be possible for island municipalities of over eighteen thousand inhabitants for workers moving to self-employed islands that constitute local communities. For example, I am thinking of the cross-cutting islands, which are part of the Municipality of Corfu, and can thus take a real breath from the years of subsistence observed in necessary specialities for the everyday life of their inhabitants. Because all these areas, the small mountainous island towns are lost, areas abandoned, with very difficult winters, which have sometimes been left without a teacher, without a doctor, without services. So let us pay due attention. The provision for the implementation of the civic register, which will link the registration database to the burial registers, is also of importance and is thus afforded the possibility for every citizen to have access to the civic act or to the civic certificate from his home. One wonders: You, colleagues of counter-population, the crusaders of modernization, the fiancés of 'Me and Europe', why have you not done this for so many years? Why didn't you modernise the services and promote a registry application that would relieve citizens of so much bureaucratic burdens and so much suffering? A Special Secretariat for the Performance of Citizenship is also set up with a view to radically reorganising and improving the services provided. I told the committees too. We had to get to this government, in 2015, in order to finally pass the law on citizenship, the law that would give Greek citizenship to immigrant children who have rooted in the country, who have become part of the social and productive fabric and now, with this recommendation of the National Efficiency Special Secretariat, is facilitated, the performance of citizenship is accelerated. So where are the ruffles? Who is she? Where are the suburbs? Where is the financial derailment and much more that - I am passing away - is exactly what you have done in power over the past decades. What's rushfetti? Is the possibility of providing incentives to doctors, teachers and other groups of workers to move them to mountain and island areas with a small population? Is the setting of a hundred instalments for the debts of natural persons and businesses to the municipalities? Cases of outdated recruitment seem to be for you to restore injustices to workers who had lost their job for years without - notice the paradox - even to be fired, such as the twenty-four workers on the Western Attica municipal radio "XENIOS". Should we also consider unhealthy work allowance? You call budgetary derailment to ensure individual protection for workers in cleaning and payment of their expenses. Is that a financial derailment? They bankrupt the country, brought it to the edge of the cliff and talk about gloves in cleanliness. Is that not what these people deserve, in your opinion? So no wonder some of you want to put as many stumbling blocks as possible in implementing the recent contractors' regulations on cleanliness of OTAs as possible. Nevertheless, the opposite efforts already made by the majority of municipalities are calling for permanent recruitment in the area of cleanliness and for the medium term to conclude new contracts pending the tender in question. Ladies and gentlemen of the Officerate, faithful to your obsession with redundancies, insist not only on the reintroduction of the '1 to 5' ratio in terms of recruitment, but also on the extent of the former availability, which is yours, neoliberal cutting and inspiration. How else can one explain the criticism you have made against us in Article 100 of the bill, which concerns - and quite rightly - the lifting of disciplinary powers for the then mayors, who are to their credit that they refused to comply with the suggestions and send lists of workers' colleagues who were candidates for what? For availability, i.e. the premise of dismissal. Why do you insist at all costs, ladies and gentlemen of the Officerial Representation, on subsistence of the public? You're not worthy of that. Is it to come as a machine by gods contractors to private companies to make up for the gap? I think it is time for you to understand - and all of us - in this Chamber that these neoliberal ideas have nothing positive to bring about. Only suffering can bring about this country. In conclusion, I would like to point out that this draft law corrects too many distortions and malfunctions, cures loopholes, introduces innovative regulations such as the civic register, but also the possibility for municipalities to trade in materials and energy from waste management to recycling, which will result in a reduction in costs for citizens in municipal fees. However, this draft law also constitutes a 'bridge'. It is the necessary step along the way towards restructuring the framework of local government, which is a strategic objective of the government to create a more operational and democratic model, because that is our objective. Because, in fact, a lot has been heard about the country's exit to the markets yesterday, look, in 2014, on the ruins of a country and the ruins of a country you wrote the suxe of the markets. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We neither triumphant nor celebrate. We will not do the same. Yes, the country came out on the markets in good terms, which is a tool. Not even selfishness is not an end in itself. It is a tool of an afflicted, seated people coming out of a humiliating comitology regime. So we're not celebrating. It's a first step. In any case, the visible or invisible hand of the markets should do its job and we should also do our work here with these legislation, because that is our aim, to create the terms and conditions for fair growth, for social justice, in order to return dignity to the world of work and to restore democracy and local self-government, because it is synonymous with local selfgovernment and democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Nikolaos SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that I have been completely covered by what the previous parliamentary representative of the SYRIZA Fotini Vakis said at the Syriza Fotini Vakis, as well as by the rapporteur, Mr Pratsoli. Of course, I have also been covered by what the Minister said in his speech. It is clear that the bill, which we are voting on today, is not a great reform for me, too. We have time to discuss the major reform - in the autumn, of course, through a rich social consultation, both with local and local authorities, on the major issues pending on the road towards decentralisation and regional development by self-government. I think, however, that this bill is, in fact, a 'bridge bill' - so I will call it - which corrects many years' malignancies which were also requests from the institutions of local government, first and second grades and solves problems relating to the functioning of local government bodies and first and second grade councils, problems relating to workers and problems relating to the citizens of trade unions or judges and benefiting from the work of local government. That is why it is important, because it does not leave any further outstanding issues that have arisen in recent years. That is why it is worth wondering that the opposition is making a criticism of the bill by voting against it as a rousphetological, clientele, etc. I am sorry, but as long as the time goes, the New Democracy, as well as the opposition as a whole, lack serious arguments but also a narrative until the end of this parliamentary term. The events constantly disprove them and every day that the Greek people pass will understand that as far as this course of governance is concerned, this road map that we have unequivocally drawn up through enormous difficulties, this time of the year we will be talking about getting out of the committee - the very strict committee, because it will in any case be more relaxed in the European Union - because Greece and Europe as a whole must change. We do not want a European Union of budgetary stability and austerity, but social cohesion, peace, democracy, peoples' participation in decision-making. So I say that this bill is a bill that corrects many bad texts. I would also like in this context to focus on a number of articles, mainly concerning island municipalities. They also concern me as a representative of the Cyclades, but they concern the islands of Greece as a whole, as well as the small mountain towns. So I think we should refer to a few articles, which are of great importance. Articles 17 and 19 are two articles which enable local government agencies through municipal companies operating radio and television stations to be subsidised. It is also possible to involve neighbouring municipalities in such municipal radio and television stations that the region needs, because it is clear that we are interested in the social operation of television and radio stations. Here is a splendid field of glory for some municipalities and in our region, the Cyclades, such as the Municipality of Ermoupolis Syros. There is an instrument called "Egypt" which in recent years, precisely because of the economic problems that have arisen, grows and cannot function. Here, then, is a glorious field of glory to revive this kind of business! I shall now refer to another article, Article 32, which gives the possibility of staffing in areas of small island and mountainous municipalities. This article extends what had been voted on last year and concerns the possibility of feeding and housing doctors from OTAs. It extends it to both teachers and other staff of health services. It extends it to the Security Body, firefighters, porters, police, etc. It is important because in our region there is a serious housing problem, as we have in some islands large tourist development. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like your tolerance for a moment. I won't be long. I'm gonna need about two more minutes. There is one issue here. While giving island municipalities more than eighteen thousand inhabitants, where there are autonomous islands formed in local communities and providing them with the incentives it provides to them under eighteen thousand, why cannot the islands be subsidised with all financial aid, exceptional and regular, regardless of whether they belong to larger municipalities? This is an issue that we can see in the next bill to solve. I would also like to say that we are seeing this with Article 68, where a return on beer tax can go to island and mountainous municipalities. So there too we can see the islands, which are local communities. Two issues I want to raise. These days it has become known in the pan-Hellenic sense that in Milos, which is my place of origin, environmental infrastructure, because of a rough, unmistakable policy that has been conducted in recent years by the municipal authority and the mayor, has collapsed in the middle of a tourist season. Unfortunately, there has been no preparation, both in terms of water supply and in terms of waste management. So this municipality needs support. The Government does what can be done either through the Ministry of the Interior or through the Ministry of Island Policy. But, indeed, here I would like to denounce the mayor and the municipal authority as a whole, because they despise the ruling MPs. As an example, I bring the last event that took place, in the presence of the President of the Republic, a month and a half ago in Milos, where the representative of the President of the Parliament, who is present at the moment, was not announced at the event, was only invited to lunch at the last minute, as was the alleged government MP. The arrogant behaviour and attitude of the mayor deceives the government's MPs, and it actually deceives Parliament. We must take this into account.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u174	Mr. Comrade, you're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u175	This mayor has been charged with a fine of EUR 42,000 by environmental inspectors, regionals and has been referred to the prosecutor by the central environmental inspectors with the question of criminal offence.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u177	Mr President, I shall conclude with one word on Mykonos to the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u178	Let's go in ten minutes now. Don't get all the islands!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u179	Ten days ago, environmental inspectors left the island. They've recorded two hundred arbitrary in the last year. So this town does not work. I call on the Minister for the Environment and Energy, too, to say to the Minister for the Interior - because they need directly two honest officials - because there is the great problem there that the town-runner is currently under trial - which will be responsible for the Mykonos Town, which is also an excellent island, like Milos. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u180	Thank you, Mr. Armachin. My colleague, Eleni Alonitou, from SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u181	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill, 'Consolidations on the modernisation of the institutional framework for the organization and operation of municipal waste water undertakings...', etc., concerns a number of issues of local government. I would like, however, since today there is a debate on the bill in principle, to stand on two sections of the bill. The first part of the bill modernises and adapts the current needs - some of the provisions - of L. 1069/1980, which had laid down the institutional framework for the operation of municipal water and sewerage operations thirty-seven years ago. This is a New Democracy government law, at a time when the New Democracy had not yet embraced the position of privatisation of every service to the citizens and mainly legislated on functionality. Thus Law No 1069/1980 followed the current European practice that wanted water and sewerage companies to belong either to the State or to the local authorities. Ν.1069/1980 achieved the objectives it had set and today's amendment did not imply any inconsistency in the original legislation, but only the need to adapt it to the newer conditions that have emerged in our day. Inevitably, however, the circumstance of today's amendment of Ν.1069/1980 puts in mind and raises at the table the big issue of the acceptable to each party for an area of state and the private economy. The Left used to want everything in the state. And the Right, which basically wanted the private economy, even received extensive state intervention when it was necessary, i.e. when the private initiative or seaboarded or, anyway, did not cover any needs. So we acquired PPC, OTE and the water supply and sewerage companies. After 1990, the 'bachelor' attitude of privatization of everything has come to our country, which the New Democracy is expressing so clearly. Often, however, this is falsified privatisation, since in many cases it is proposed to privatise a natural monopoly with enclaved customers and with state infrastructures, which are granted to private individuals, which then only act as providers of overpriced services. Can a city have four, five supermarket chains and shop where it wants to be? Maybe. So they don't need state supermarkets. But can a city have two, three water distribution networks on every road and choose the customer with whom does it want to connect? It can't be. So we have a natural monopoly and it must remain public. If you have a private person contracted to share the water from the public network, who didn't pay for it himself, then to issue evidence and collect the money, you haven't privatize, you have created a feud. But does public property give rise to waste? Not at all. The intertwined privatizations create waste. The current legislation and Article 10 expressly states that tariffs will necessarily cover the operating costs of each municipal water and sewerage company. However, they are not required to cover some charismatic gains on an imaginary investor. Water is a very good example of the false nature of some privatizations proposed by various nowadays. But it's not the only thing. It is also waste collection and recycling, the electricity distribution network and river dams. But other, of course, monopolies, which have already been exploited by the state, are similar cases. Privatised will give the private profit without investment and without risk. Entrepreneurship, however, means precisely risk-taking and management. No risk-free entrepreneurship exists, except as an intermittent fraud. Ladies and gentlemen, I still want to stand in the fourth part of the bill, the Civil Registry. To date, there is an old tradition in Greek public services, which says that any citizen who has some work to deal with a service is automatically recruited as an unpaid clerk of the service until his work is done. A lot of the suffering that the citizen suffers stems from the performance of these duties by a clerk, since various public documents have to be transferred from one service to another, as if the services were busted and not spoken to one another. Even nowadays, the digitisation of everything, the electronic files that can be consulted between them and the e-mail, the Greek citizen continues to perform the duties of a clerk. In the vote today's bill, therefore, the Civil Registry is legislated, which ends this suffering, at least, with regard to the registration documents. It is a model of reform that is being carried out to serve citizens and increase productivity. In principle, therefore, the bill finds me absolutely in agreement. I am going to be particularly interested in the many and important aspects of this bill in the debate on the articles, whether or not it takes place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u182	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Constantine Morfidis from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u183	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not speak about Barofakis, I will not speak about the President of the Ice Bay. After all, we shouldn't be talking about such matters. Perhaps we should not talk at all, as Mr Loverdos told us today in the health examination, that we have no right to speak. And I'll do that because I don't want to escape. I want to talk about this bill, which I consider really to be a good bill, and it solves too many problems of self-government. The opposition, seeking to evade, tags: 'party state', 'rusphetological provisions'. Who should we make ruffles with? Who? The mayors? To those who are today, as Nikos the Syrian man mentioned earlier, don't they even recognize us? Is the New Democracy afraid we'll take the mechanism? We're not in that mood. It goes without saying that what we believe in a life, we believe today, that when we consider self-government a cell of democracy, that until we die, we believe it and we will strive to improve local selfgovernment, why does our lives get better and the lives of our fellow citizens and our children? It does not cross their minds, because otherwise they have managed things and otherwise continue - with the same thought - to judge and think about the operation of all parties and not just theirs. They call 'ruly' what is good for citizens, because they do not want to admit the reality, that this government does things that are good, that promotes the institutions, making reforms that are beneficial to society, which they have failed and led the country to Nadir, as well as its citizens. The functioning of the JHA or the Civil Registry are reforms that should have taken place. We're coming and we're doing it today. And I think there could be, at least, the admission by everyone that they are promoting the functioning of local government. Municipal radios, their reopening function, the indemnity of the elected representatives were a mistake in the previous law, and this is where it is corrected. It's not bad to admit. The incentives for public officials in mountain and island municipalities, the removal of the high-voltage pillars - a request that we have put in years and put local societies - the personal protection instruments, the unhealthy work allowance is a curse? What are you going to do to these employees? That it is a curse that we give the unhealthy work allowance, that we are going to regulate the issues of local self-government musicians, that we are making sure that the Day Care Centres of the Elderly or Incineration Centers continue to operate? Even the amendments which have been tabled resolve a number of issues, which are very important. The forest maps, which are a very large reform and should have been built in our country years ago, are entering a process of regulation. It's very important. With regard to the arrangements for the successors of 1998: have any of these people met? Do they know what they've taken for twenty years? Have they thought about what is right in this country, what is the perception of the state power these people have for twenty years on the sidelines? Should we leave them there from an idea that the public is big and we should minimize it, should we reduce it? These people shouldn't have gone to their jobs, which they worked hard for, with suffering, that gave a competition? Should we not make these moves, which strengthen the sense of law, which strengthen the role of politics and politics in this place? Also, the regulation on firefighters, really, is the first step towards their final right. All these are changes, which have a direct impact on the daily lives of thousands of our fellow citizens, which they are better off. That is what you do not want to hear, gentlemen of the counter-population, that here is a better day for our fellow citizens' lives. We move on with these citizens and these citizens. You can remain attached to the media of misinformation, mud and seal allowance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u184	Mr Christos Beyalas has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not see any Members in the House from New Democracy. And I think the Parliamentary spokesman commented that we are very few of the SYRIZA Members here, of course, not taking into account that there are two other committees at the same time, three committees and that they were enough. Now, of course, I obviously have a delusion and I don't see anyone. So they pay attention to a bill that they tried to condemn, not to say that the bill, which is now coming, has too many positive articles. The whole bill, of course, is positive and we will vote with pleasure, because it corrects issues that have caused many problems and with the implementation of the 'CALICRATES' which succeeded the 'CARRIAT'. And as a member of local government, since I have served her for some twenty years as a municipal councillor - the four of them as mayor - I would like to highlight a few articles that I do not know if they were identified. I do not think, however, because obviously some greedy people from the Opposition thought they were obviously negligible. For us, however, who served local government is of great importance. Of course, I would first like to point out something about Article 5, Minister, where it refers to JHA activities, that it can also be extended to irrigation. Obviously, we are talking about small irrigation projects, which are carried out in the town's territorial competence, and which is why they are not part of the TWGs, the Local Improvement Agency. Obviously this solves the issue and is very positive, because there are very small irrigation and cannot be set up a Local Improvement Agency. Therefore, the JHA or even the services of the municipalities in cases where they have small irrigation and do not have a municipal water and sewerage company. Perhaps it should be added that the services of the municipality can handle and charge irrigation fees. It solves a lot of problems. Here I would like to point out something for the Local Improving Commissioners, making a reference to a non-legislative draft. I think that as a government we should go through a change and modernise the legislative framework of the Local Improvement Agency, which unfortunately remain with some royal decrees of 1955 and 1957, if I remember well. I would also like to point out the following for Article 21: it is very important for the transfer of co-financed programmes from CAT to CATs and without a specific procedure. It created huge problems to change the organization of project implementation. Now this article solves this loose end. With regard to Article 32, several Members of the majority were clearly pointed out that incentives are being given to workers from mountain and island regions. We are all aware of those who are in mountain and disadvantaged areas, as well as island regions, that an official is not coming to a service - which you may also have the credits, or a service may operate - if you cannot give him some incentive. It is a very good article, which will facilitate and give a solution to the inhabitants of these regions. For Article 33, the allowances for municipal councillors: Since there has been enough reason, it is not possible to say that municipal councillors, who go more than ten kilometres and have some costs, are costing 30 or 40 euros. This is misery, and it is not a matter of memorials or economic hardship in our country. It is the misery of some people who want to level them up and do not give particular weight to both the role of municipal councillors and municipal authorities. Also, it is very important that the article on the management of the fixed advance is handled. Minister, I would like your attention to the fixed advance. I would like to point out that this is a very nice tool for the municipalities, which, unfortunately, in the small villages is not working. And it doesn't work, of course, because of centralism, if you like, that also holds the mayors. They're keeping it. The special-purpose account belonging to the municipality concerned is now facilitated here. The Municipal Council shall designate the President or the Managing Director of the Community to manage him. However, what should be done - and I would like to do so personally as a proposal - is to put the obligation to operate the fixed advance with the specific expenditure recorded, which the presidents of the local communities of the small villages can do. Because, as I told you, centralism is the mayors. I believe that compulsoryity would solve problems of everyday life. Small account, directly, without any special procedures. Of course, also Article 43 is very positive. It is the use of terminals, POS, and municipalities to modernise the municipalities. Article 47 also makes it very good to balance the payroll services of small municipalities. In small towns of less than four thousand inhabitants, that is to say, in their returns, if they do not balance, cover with other revenues and close their budget. We are talking about small municipalities where there is a need for them to exist as municipalities, but we cannot put them on the same fate as the major municipalities, which have a population and therefore they can close their budgets easily. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Article 49 concerns the transfer of appropriations from project to project. Many problems have arisen because of the absence of this article. It comes up and solves issues, such as, for example, in a project where some appropriations have been left over, and for another that has a deficit to be able to transfer these appropriations by decision of the municipal council. Article 51, facilitation of payment of benefits: These aids are tax-free, irresponsible and point-out, so that there is no misunderstandings. It's a very good article. Let's go to Article 71, transferring school property to the municipalities: It's an article, which will solve too many problems, bring the school units to the property of the municipalities and help them, I think, to the maximum. We continue with Article 73, with the granting of the use of municipal real estate to regions. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] I will conclude in a minute, Mr President. There was the problem of a project being able to do so, but the area being part of the municipalities. With this article you can make the concession, because the common good and common interest comes through both degrees of local self-government. Article 78. Coverage of the death and recovery costs of weak persons from the burial costs of the deceased. In other words, a municipality may want to contribute to a man who might have been homeless, helpless, not even have the expenses of his funeral, neither he, nor his relatives, but could have given a small expense. The mayors in these cases didn't back off. They did. But how did they do it? They did so in a way illegal, irregular. That's right, but it's irregular. That is quite right, Article 78 gives a solution to this issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u186	Mr. Colleague, you're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u187	I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute or so. An important issue is the creation of the Citizens' Registry. It is part of and reforming all citizens to have the Civil Registry in a single registry body, where both the Journal and the registration acts will be able there to be recovered and not run for days when citizens are in an area outside the municipality that is registered to obtain a certificate. The deceased incineration centres, which have been identified, are one of the positive points of the bill. I have thus tried, ladies and gentlemen, to highlight small articles, but very substantial, which resolve the problems faced by the municipalities. In conclusion, I would like to say on the amendment, which Mr Toskas mentioned, on new formulae. I would like to say here that I will be very happy if we succeed as a government and as a state in making a single figure. At the moment, every citizen has the tax number, he has the ID number, he has the AMKA. To move to a real modernization and with the new type of identities that must be done, to modernise, to have a number for all uses to solve this entire bureaucratic system...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u188	Mr. Comrade, you're done. You're talking nine and a half minutes. You're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u189	I'm done, Mr. President. What I would like to say is that this bill is not a rousphetological, but it restores injustices, it regulates issues. And it is a pity that opposition does not take a good place in this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u190	Ladies and gentlemen, let us come to an agreement. In the morning, the President-in-Office, Mr Kaklamanis, made a proposal - I think all parties agreed - if we can - by seeing and how the debate is going on this afternoon - to conclude the process today. We all agreed. I think there was no objection. Until now, there is tolerance. We believe in the Bureau that if the time is respected, if the speakers and assistants of the seconds are consistent, we will end around 19.30'. I say this because if we agree with this in the evening's assessment, I would like to be a little more stringent in time. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u191	Thank you very much. Mr Rabbit has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u192	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u193	Here, Mr. Gregorako, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u194	I, in the morning, expressed my objection to this. And I would ask the Bureau very much not to smoke the decisions of the Conference of Presidents. In particular, Mr Kaklamanis, when he speaks, I was again in the morning - every time he wants to determine the procedure despite the decision of the Conference of Presidents. I would therefore ask you very much, because there are limits with the Members, who are all day long in the proceedings and have other obligations, to set the time. It's not just my obligation to parliament. I have other obligations and social and family and scientific and policies. I want to define, my dear Mr President, my life's programme. I will not be'specified' by any president when he decides to take the procedure this morning and this afternoon, and the Conference of Presidents has said about the next day. I want you to look at this because this is particularly the case with the President in particular.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u195	We understand the point, but you should know...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u196	I understand that, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u197	Mr. Comrade, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u198	So you have to make a commitment to ending at 19.30. If a minute more...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u199	Mr. Gregoraco, you're right. But you need to know...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u200	My dear Mr. President, shall I finish?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u201	...that apart from the Conference of Presidents, the final reason is always the plenary.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u202	Not to put it at all, not to plan our lives at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u203	It is also a question of understanding the formality. What can we do now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u204	Mr. President, will we finish at 19:30? That's what I'm interested in. If you're going to tell me 19:30 and go to 22:00, I disagree. Didn't the Conference of Presidents decide? If we're gonna talk and get rid of...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u205	Mr. Colleague, we're not doing any prophecies now. We appreciate that around 19.30, if we have a consistency, we'll be done. What more can I tell you? We will try to be consistent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u206	Mr President, we must be able to make our programming.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u207	Thank you very much. We'll see. We will try to be consistent. Mr. Ioannis Rabbit has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u208	Thank you, Mr President. In detail, our speaker, Mr. Karakostas, has been mentioned in this multi-project. I'd like to stigmatize some things that happen. The most important thing I have to say is that it is not right that the procedure under which the bills come, we go to the committees and we come to the House to vote. I think with anyone in the hallway or in private here if he does not listen to us, you will all admit that this is not the right procedure. There's no such thing. In other words, if we belong to parties that do not have fifty and sixty Members, we run from one committee to another, without even listening to what is said in committee, because we enter at 14.00 and at 15.00 we have to go to another committee. Then we'll go to a third committee and then we'll have to come here at 7 p.m. to discuss another bill. There is no proper procedure in this way and you know that very well. All right, I think that the government is particularly aware of this and is trying to do so, because it is a very nice way of not having any reactions, not to object. Some bills are coming and all of us are talking about four or five articles, which we think are the most important ones and we ignore all the rest. So there are five hundred-page bills to be passed, and we can't even get rid of them. If we lie, you tell us. We had come to the point that some people were voting for memos when they enslaved our country for too many years and were glad to say that they had not been able to read this memorandum and should not be apologied anywhere. So because we feel that we have to apologise to the Greek citizen and because we feel that we do not have a good job at all, as we would like, we first denounce this fact. As far as we have also been able to read in this bill, I would like to focus on certain specific things, which have not been mentioned by others, because the rest of the parties do not consider that to be very important and I see everyone agrees. I would therefore like to begin by saying that Article 133 says here that it must be done and that it will be done by what the government says. We are therefore entering these procedures. In fact, it also mentions characteristics within this multi-legislative plan, that this is mainly because until now the operation and activation of the Local Government agencies in the direction of the establishment and operation of incineration centres is extremely limited. What does that mean? This means that local societies, local self-government, OTAs or the ordinary world, citizens do not want these incineration centres. The Greek citizen doesn't want it, no matter how much we try to change this thing in a decent way, and that's why they don't. So the Greek Government is now coming and says that this will also be a kind of business. It will be possible for a private person, subject to certain conditions, to set up such incineration centres. This a few years ago it would be in Greece an excitement and no one would accept it. Today, however, we have come to talk about this and almost nobody minds and all the parties in this House, except the Golden Dawn, are not against it at all. What is important is that it is in perfect contrast with the Christian and Orthodox advances that the Greek citizen has, because either too much or little we are all connected with these things. That's how we've learned. We've all buried our own people, we've all gone to the cemeteries, we've all seen what's happening, and it's this process that has made us united and remember our fathers, our ancestors, our grandparents. Now, how we want to go into this process, I don't understand it. I did not tell anyone to ban this right, but how we are going slowly to put everything in a bucket and say that private incinerators now have to be done, that I do not understand. Could the state, if it wanted, have a two - how much it will judge - incinerators for those who want to follow this process, but not enter this private initiative. It's not all business and business. We have, in other words, gone into a situation where we do not understand what is happening. Of course, here there is the perfect opposition of the Church on this. The Church doesn't even discuss that. It's opposite, but who listens to the Greek Orthodox Church today? No one's giving a base. But there is also a big question here. All of you who respect the millions of illegal immigrants who have entered our country, who want to create conditions of religion that match what they have learned in their homelands and what they said they had there, who want to keep their roots in Greece, the Christian Greek Orthodox, how do you cut him off from his roots and from what he believed so far in a direct or indirect way? You don't care about these things. So how do we get to this process? It is a disgrace, it is truly unacceptable, it is a fierce and sacrificial sacrificial for us Greek nationalists, the chrysanites, and not only, to the vast majority of Greek citizens to say that we are going to make private incinerators right now. We're leveling everything. Man becomes only mass, loses everything, loses his values, loses his principles. We don't have anything else. We will simply wish to live on a planet, in a country that shouldn't be a country, because there are no borders for you, there are no homes, there are no differences. We will be a crowded mass of people who will have nothing but live, work, make money and consume it. That's it and it's over. We are completely opposed to this, and we are opposed to it - and we wonder with you left-wing and left-wing ideology - with the Civil Registry. And we are not opposed to the civic register, because it will not make it easy for people and citizens to live, but because we are dealing with basic issues here. This is specifically an indirect way of getting the citizen's card through. So it's all in a card, on a computer, on a number, where there'll be AMCA, AMM, all our data, and we'll be just that thing. This procedure will be done. Of course, the fact that any serious hacker can come in and steal all the evidence, because there is no security, that does not concern anyone. And that's a fact, because these phenomena will happen. We, therefore, are also opposed to this, clearly on the subject of freedom of personality, freedom of the individual. That's why we're against this process. We have also seen in Article 125 to talk about the establishment of a Special Secretariat of Citizenship. What does that mean? This means that there will be a new committee - there have already been these things, but you will make them better, put other people of your own - and rapidly rendering Greek citizenship to any illegal immigrants who comes in and asks for citizenship. And we have said that good or bad, whether wanting or not, citizenship can only be given by nature and by God. Citizenship you might be able to give - and this is what we disagree - but Greek citizenship for someone who is illegally entering the Greek border, who sits six months and a year, we do not know where his broom keeps and comes from and asks for and we must in a reasonable time give him citizenship, that is unacceptable and embarrassing to us. I will also talk about another piece, about articles 108-114, which may be in the panic we are legislating for, that nobody has noticed them. We are talking here about the European territorial cooperation groups. What are these European territorial cooperation groups? They are some groups created by two or more Member States - Member States of the European Union - so at least so - that can do what they want within the borders of any country, which in fact cease to exist. And it says at one point here - not the bill, since the initial establishment of these European groups - that it allows the members concerned, in two or more states, to cooperate within the framework of joint initiatives, without the need for an international agreement requiring ratification by the national parliaments. Do we understand why we're talking? They are repealed, there is no Greek Parliament. Especially in Greece for the last eight years, we have known that very well. We have said so, and now others say so slowly, that the Greek Parliament is to come some bills and a few memos from abroad. We will take them, but we will not read them, because they are three thousand pages and they come to us this afternoon and the next morning at eleven we will have to vote on them. This is the Greek Parliament. And if the Greek Parliament dares to make a decision that can be in favour of the Greek citizen, if the European Union does not agree, if the international tyrants, who have arrived at our country, are not going to pass. They'll cancel. As we very well remember, the then Minister for Maritime Affairs, Mr Dritsa, should come in here and try to pass some other laws in the agreement with 'COSCO'. The House has stopped. It's interrupted. And Dritsa was running fast to find the people of 'COSCO' to come to an agreement with what they were going to give him. All of us here expected that this Minister, at least, would come and declare his resignation, and this man brought us a different bill, without having any problem, which we signed and sold out of the port. In fact, it was this gentleman who, before becoming Minister for Commercial Shipping, did demonstrations and marches in Piraeus along with some other of the convoy that were shouting so that the port would not be sold out. That is the reality in the Greek Parliament. So that was some individual things that we wanted to talk about, because no one else has told the Greek Parliament. No one else has said it. The attitude of the ANELs - all right, it does not give us any impression, saying that - how patriots, who are Christians, may receive from a government to legislate in this way and not to throw it, not to go away. But they have come to the easy solution, to know that when various articles come and vote for other parliamentary parties and government cohesion is not at risk, then they will not vote and do what they disagree. If they disagreed on something, they would, of course, throw the government away. But how can they fire the government when their President, Kammenos, is now trembling behind Tsipras and begging not to empty him for the scandal that has been done with Greek justice? He is shaky, because when he was here a while ago and we were discussing it here, he was up here with courage and said that "I will say yes to the setting-up of a committee of inquiry". And then, when this matter came, he said, "no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. So if Kammenos is clean, why is there not a committee of inquiry? But here, I would also like to say about the hypocritical attitude of all the parties, because you were all concerned that there might be intervention in the work of justice and you were all surprised. It was something unprecedented for Greece to involve Minister of Justice and to want to see what is happening. You fell off the clouds. I will not go into tens of such issues as this, but to emphasise once again how hypocritical your attitude is and how the Greek people can hear it again, there was another very serious incident involving the then Prime Minister of Greece, Antonis Samaras, along with a conspiracy, with Athanasios and with Dendia. We have been talking about it since then, knowing that what we say is true and you know that what we say is true. But the blindness you have against the Golden Dawn does not let you see the greatest right we can have. A few days ago, then, all of you Members of the rest of the parties, who hate Golden Dawn, but you are democrats and you like democracy and truth, when the prosecutor's proposal came in the Greek Parliament saying that the sound - not the video - was the soundphone that should be examined - of Samaras, who said on the phone to some "high panthenamics", to Doyako, "when the other three Members of the Golden Dawn come in, you put them in prison", you did not collect any more thirty signatures to become a committee of inquiry. Why? Is it because you're afraid that if this happens, Samaras and the others involved will be exposed, but all of you who knew that and did nothing? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A few days ago, you must all, either in your lockers or in your personal email, have received this proposal officially from the Golden Dawn. So we say, since you are in favour of democracy and of justice, why don't you sign these signatures, see if we have slandered Samaras and Athanasius? But you all hide behind your finger. So you are shouting now about the Kammenos - Marinaki scandal, it is surprising that the Minister has intervened - that is, it is a presumption that it has been done - and to see how Kammenos is going to run away. But for the case of your ideological opponent, Samaras, you don't care, on the left, on the centre, everyone, and you've buried it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u209	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u210	I've got a second one, too. I will not use it all, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u211	We just said we should get together for a little while to finish today.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u212	I'll be done in a minute and a half. We also heard the rapporteur for the PASOK Democratic Association this morning say something about us. He referred to the issue of the Georges of ELSTAT and what has happened lately. SYRIZA, when he was in the opposition, cried about the issue of Georgiou that the real facts have been altered, that it was not the indicators and that Greece entered a false memorandum, which we all know about. And he said that then SYRIZA -- well, then SYRIZA said a lot, of course -- he's going to look at all this. But now, when he came to power, he disappeared them, and when a judicial officer was found to make this move and look again at the issue of George what has happened, the PASOK rapporteur said that these are lies and that if the deficit and the evidence that had been created was forged, they would turn the money back to the European Union that was so good and give it to us. That is exactly what Golden Dawn wants from those who stole the money, because this money did not go to investment, this money did not go to loans for farmers or young entrepreneurs, this money did not go to work, hospitals and schools for the Greek citizen. This money went to certain pockets, to specific wallets, to majestics and to big banks that ate them and to big politicians. We therefore fully agree this time with the PASOK - DIMAR, which has many of them within their remit, and we say yes to look at the phenomenon and the possibility. And because it would turn out that the evidence was fake and that Greece entered the memoirs with false evidence, that responsibility was attributed, that we could see who stole it and turn that money back. Finally, I will say what happened about an hour and a half ago in the Greek Parliament. Some of the children of Ruvikon came in, they went in, they threw out some brochures, they left. Parliament, according to the latest data, has taken emergency measures in recent years. The emergency measures, however, obviously, Mr President, are to be fifteen people here in the security and guard to keep the golden people from entering and raising the tone of their voices. What has happened today is unacceptable. These people came in. How did they get in with so many cops at the gates? And not only did they go in - all right, you've been taken to sleep by the police guard and come in - but the most tragic thing is that many of them have been arrested, and from what we read and see, in agreement - it says - yours, Mr. President, and Mr. Toska, the Minister for Civil Protection, have been released. Imagine being golden and flew for the acquittal of Nikos Michalliakos, the leader of the third political force, who has gone to prison. So they did this thing for a woman who has been sentenced - rightly, unjustly, I don't know, we will see, first in thirteen years' imprisonment. Not because she passed in red, but because, from what Greek justice says, her fingerprints were found on a gun taper. That's what happens. And imagine, I'm telling you again, that they were golden and did these. What to expect, however, from a Greek government and from a Greek police police, when these people again were the ones who marched to Exarch Square, holding weapons and then saying that these weapons are real.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u213	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u214	I had a second one, Mr President. Isn't that right? I'm a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u215	Mr. Comrade, excuse me. We're talking about the OTA bill. You have been extended to a number of issues completely outside the Ottawa Bill, with absolute tolerance for the Bureau, but do not exaggerate yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u216	Why do you wonder, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u217	For the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u218	It's my dentistry, isn't it? I haven't been over time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u219	But I told you about the time, despite the fact that I don't use what I can do, about the conversation we're having, about the Ottas. You're in eighteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u220	Will you tell the parliamentary representative what he'll say?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u221	Anyway. You've been talking eighteen minutes. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u222	I'm not talking anymore. Democracy won again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u223	Mr Karagunis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u224	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, our good colleagues and our rapporteur have told you earlier. As you can see, this bill also suffers from the classical features, which suffer all the bills of SYRIZA, that is, on the one hand part fragmentation and on the other hand fragmentation and a lack, in principle, of a political position, but also of a specific political line. Now, of course, I'm probably also a little strict with the ministers and with you personally, Mr. Skourletis, in the report that there is no booze. I say this because we live in a country that the Prime Minister told us yesterday that he took over the Prime Minister and did not know and that he is now starting to learn. It's been three years, and it probably hasn't learned much, Minister. He did - he says - wrong to his main partners. I hope the ball doesn't take you too, because, indeed, you're one of his main partners too. It was also unknown, as he says, and he did not know what everyone else knows in this country, namely, that it is vicious to threaten a monetary union of some of the most powerful countries in this world that you will blow up and do this without having the necessary ammunition. Because the only ammunition he had, since we're talking about the Interior Ministry's bill and the OTA, as far as I remember, was to raise the funds of the municipalities to pay the instalments. And, of course, this money is still being stolen by people, because, if I remember correctly, the flows are 14 billion, plus 5 billion euros due overdue. Already, there is an internal phase of EUR 19 billion. Of course, then the capital checks came...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u225	Who says that?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u226	That's all it is. Mr. Skourletis, you don't know well. The flow is 14 billion.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u227	Mr. Kagarakoni, millions won, as did the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u228	Mr President, have you returned the money back to the Otta and the universities?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u229	Whenever they want, by invitation of three members, etc. There's a procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u230	There is a specific phase, Mr. Voutsi, which remains. You haven't returned them. If you borrow and return it, it's another thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u231	But they must be returned.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u232	Okay. Ask the mayors if they've taken the money.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u233	You ask them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u234	But it's specific what I'm saying. Do not exhale.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u235	Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot have a debate now from here and there. Mr. Karaguni, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u236	Mr President, I am simply replying to the objections of the President and the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u237	Please, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u238	Then came the capital checks. You charged 80 billion euros, according to Mr. Regling. Of course, the economy remains in the respirator, and the reductions and cuts are going cloud. Because, ladies and gentlemen, in all the markets and get out, with all the crazy interest rates you borrow, the fact remains that Greece is the only country in the Western world that has capital controls. And as long as capital controls remain - and unfortunately, it seems that there is more to be, because no one trusts, at least until now, the government to bring back the money, the opposite is, unfortunately, a long way away, many billions of euros have left - it is a deadlock to discuss a project that unfortunately does not seem to have a good end. People understand every day how expensive they have paid and paid the lessons of the Prime Minister and that they cannot trust apprentices, who we all know that their experiments end up in a very bad way. To come to the bill too soon. I said it earlier. Our own speakers have said so too. We weren't expecting to bring anything different from what you finally brought, Minister: a classic SYRIZA bill. You are bringing in provisions to meet different kinds of demands, which, in any case, do not respond - and that is the important one - to today's real challenges. I am telling you this because I do not want to level this legislative initiative that you have brought in under any circumstances. Indeed, there are positive provisions - and we have said so in committee today - which do resolve a number of issues. But to get in touch: self-government two years to bring the OTA bill, to the logic of solving some basic problems of self-government, such as strengthening the financial self-interest, administrative self-sufficiency of the municipalities and modernising the basic framework. What did you do? Nor are you trying, Minister, to complete the 'Kalikrati', nor do you ensure the economic self-sufficiency of the municipalities, which is what it is all about, nor do you respond to the very warm and important problems that the municipalities currently have, especially with their staff. Let's not be fooled. The main problem - they all say it, mayors and regional managers - is economic and a lack of resources. And you, Minister, do nothing to make the resources available to the municipalities, as the law states. You don't pay off the unrestricted taxes. And of course, while you were opposition, you said that it would be your top priority. It is not taxed from the green fund. You do not make it easier for municipalities to join and participate in the ESDP programmes. What you are interested in - and we have said too many times - is only serving various party ruffles. After the fiasco you had with the cleaning workers, everyone realized that your knowledge is not about dealing with the real problems of the municipalities, but about how to do micropoliticals of other times. That's how I want you to get caught up with the mayors, who can no longer do their jobs, and the workers, who are rightfully chasing you, because they've been mocking you. Above all, Minister, you are unfortunately entangled by the citizens who ultimately pay the bill. In particular, however, you have not succeeded in organizing and administering the municipalities again and there you have not achieved much. All mayors call it for you. We refer to the permanent proposal that self-government has to mobilise localisation in the recruitment of staff to mountain and island municipalities, remote municipalities, leaving mayors and shouting that they cannot function because there is no other municipal official. He's only the mayor. There is a particular mayor who has denounced it. Do you give answers to this problem? Are you bringing any legislative initiative, provisions, rules to resolve it? Because we are discussing in 2017 there are municipalities, which have not even a municipal official, and you are not aware of giving a solution. Unless you think it is a solution to what our rapporteur has told you, how to re-enter municipal radios will be re-occupied. So that's the problem today? How will you hire editors and technicians? See what's going on right now. Take a walk to public hospitals. Go for a walk in the newspapers to "Evangelism" and "Hippokratio" to see what's going on, where there's no staff and they only work with the esteem of the administration - I can say it - of the employees above all, of the employees. Give there priority from hiring vocals. Prevent anyone in public hospitals who can't work. There is no bosulder - that is the conclusion - or your policy. Just solve small issues, settle some loose ends, Minister, and throw away the can below. You're really doin' politics, really, really, and nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u239	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u240	Thank you, Mr President. And today, we have seen a falsified confrontation on the one hand between the government and the rest of the opposition parties, particularly with New Democracy, as well as with PASOK. We have seen a falsified confrontation, which in the way it was presented is as if two worlds conflict. Really, who are these two conflicting worlds? Is it on the question that Greece came out yesterday on the markets, the Greek economy, and which the government described as a 'important day'? What is different with previous outlets on the markets from previous governments? Is market confidence in the Greek economy thus restored? Did this restoration, Minister, of market confidence in the Greek economy have any prerequisites or did it not? It had prerequisites, which were completed with the second assessment, the third memorandum and the second memorandum, all the anti-grassroots measures which slaughtered labour and insurance rights, which further aggravated the jobs of the working and people's families. Therefore, a precondition for restoring market confidence is for anti-popular attacks to continue and escalate even further. And that will be a timeless development, Minister. Indeed, the check of exit on the markets is paid by the working class and the popular layers, which do not benefit from this exit on the markets. Who benefits? Business groups that will be able to access liquidity more easily, in order to finance their various investment projects, but also through state borrowing - because outside the markets means feedbacking the state debt - to enable the state to support the business groups. This is therefore on the basis of the substance. The people to pay the price of the Greek economy's exit on the markets to support the recovery of capitalist profits. So, who are the two worlds conflicting on this matter? Does New Democracy and PASOK not want to do that, to secure business, to shield competitiveness and capitalist profitability? You believe in the same god. However, also in the issues concerning this bill, the Minister argued by speaking a different worldview on the issues of local and regional administration between, on the one hand, SYRIZA and, on the other hand, New Democracy. What is this different worldview, Minister? Didn't you say that the role of JHA, which operate on private economic criteria, is being expanded and shielded even more? What would be different worldviews of the private economic criteria in the context of the JHA implementation of the Euro-Union Directives and, indeed, of the framework directive on Water 2000, Directive 60? Does this show different worlds and different worlds or the same worlds? The same world shows. It would be different if you said JHA were abolished, turned into services, which of course will try to protect the water, not by turning it into a merchandise, but as a public provision. Can this be done under the system? Oh, no. It cannot be done under the system. But what are you doing? Enhance even more the functioning of JHA with private economic criteria and market water even more. Well, that's not all that's done. You also added a number of fees: environmental costs, resource costs, there is a special fee of up to 80% for studies and construction. Who's paying these fees? Most of all, people's families pay for it. What do you really differ from the New Democracy? Wasn't she a matching charge? Wasn't the same logic that JHA should operate on private economic criteria? The result of the operation of the JHA by private financial criteria in the context of their viability means that they should either in any way increase the tariffs in order to be able to cover the costs they have and be profitable. So, in other words, recovery measures can also be taken. By who? Of those who cannot pay because there are people's families, Minister, who cannot pay for the water. Of course, in this context there are also the experts who are taking advantage of this situation for their own reasons. So they're not two different worldviews. You believe in the same god. Even more so, it is not a cosmogenicity. The bill, which you brought, is just a bill of adaptation to the reactionary characteristics of "KALIKARAT". You do not change anything about the substance in the reactional characteristics of the 'CALCARATE'. Keep them all intact. Some micromodifications do, others that are in a more reactionary direction, such as those we mentioned about JHA, for example, the directions that concern the European Groupings for Territorial Cooperation, Part 3, and other very small adjustments without changing the substance of the reactionary 'KALIKRATH'. Why? Because, first of all, you accept and have accepted from the moment that KALIKARATIS applies the adjustment of local and regional government to the needs of the monopolistic groups. You didn't change that. You can barely support it in a number of provisions. Secondly, further strengthening the business activity of the municipalities and regions, where business activity means further commercialisation of a number of benefits The third element of the general framework, defined by the 'KALICRATIS' and you are not changing it, is the reduction of a number of benefits, whether they were granted by the public services and the public structures, or by the regions and municipalities, and, in fact, the substitution of these structures in the context of so-called solidarity, volunteering, which in essence means the deterioration of these benefits or even more substituting them by the actions of so-called non-governmental organisations and the COMES, which, in essence, in the context of the social economy, are providing these social benefits. Fourth attribute. Enhance and maintain and you further expand the upgrading of the collectivity capacity of the municipalities. At a time when, of course, the people's family cannot take a walk, which has to deal with a tsunami of taxes and, of course, the reductions in wages and pensions, the merchandise of health and education, you upgrade the collectivity of the municipalities. In fact, you include this whole process in the logic that municipalities have to acquire - that is the theory, that is the philosophy, that is the objective - economic self-sufficiency in order to further reduce state funding, a state funding that you too maintain at the same unacceptable levels as the previous governments have taken it down. Therefore, the compensation, the increase in fees, the taxation on essentials are measures to be taken by municipalities and regions in order to be able to ride them. From this point of view, it is typical that you have to deal with the debts to the municipalities. You put natural persons and legal persons in the same shoe. In the same bag, a family enters a family that can't pay with a hotel club that doesn't want to pay, with another company that doesn't want to pay municipal fees. No distinction is made between natural persons, families, who owe the municipality and the businesses they owe the municipality. You have the same treatment. No differentiation can be made between those who owe little and the vast majority of the people's families and those who owe a lot. Our rapporteur has also told you concrete examples. Usually the people who owe a lot are business. The same treatment exists. Why don't you differentiate them, Minister? The same thing is a family who can't pay for a business he doesn't want to pay? And should it be treated the same in both cases? Instead of actually making it easier for poor people's homes, who cannot pay and owe, to get out of them hard, to use it as a means to reward the businessmen, the various groups that they owe to the municipalities? And you want us to support such a process? We're telling you to differentiate. Different measures and different weightings in these two different cases. The other is the natural person and the other is the legal person. Another one is the one who owes little and another one who owes a lot. Why don't you differentiate them and put them all in the same truck? Of course, the fifth feature is the greater compatibility of the operation of municipalities and regions with business activity through public-private partnerships, concessions, overthrows in labour relations, which have changed nothing about it. Some people are dominated by them, who are overthrown into permanent and stable work. In the context of apprenticeship, you perpetuate the lifelong wandering of workers in the name of dealing with unemployment. But what is more important is what I said just before, is the greatest interconnection and in a direct way between the local, the municipalities and the regions, with the European Union, such as the most famous European Territorial Cooperation Groups, which are part of the European Union's cohesion and regional development policy. It is a cohesion policy, which not only faces inequalities, but extends them further, not only faces the imbalances between regions, but also extends them even further. It is a European cohesion, which is supported by European programmes, such as this current European Programme 14-20, which wants to meet the needs of implementing the reactionary Europe 2020 strategy, and which is a precondition for being able to fund compliance with the anti-grain mechanism of the enhanced economic governance of the European Union, namely, the primary surpluses. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will need a minute or two at most, Mr President, and I will finish. So, through this process, territorial cooperation is promoted and supported and financed between the local regions of the European Union with and outside the European Union. Why is this facilitation of cooperation? In order to facilitate, of course, the penetration of the European Union's monopolistic groups into critical areas. That is why the Eastern Partnership for Cooperation with Georgia, Moldova, Belarus - Russia's soft suburbs - is being exploited in the Balkans, the Adriatic, the Middle East and North Africa. So all this is being put into this process of facilitating the penetration of business groups and not, of course, of cooperation, based on exchanges based on culture, culture and culture, so as to bring the peoples of the various regions closer together. You are not interested in this, just facilitating penetration. That is why you are creating EGTCs as flexible schemes in the form of urban speculative companies to avoid state bureaucracy, as you call it, public accounting controls and to be able to integrate directly into them, without any process, private and business groups. That's why you're making speculative business in that name. It is clear from this point of view, Mr President, that two worlds do not conflict. Just eat the bread of New Democracy and PASOK. That's why they do more. Why do you do business, which they have left incomplete and, of course, the various voices do nothing but entangle people's discontent in a dangerous anti-population policy and strategy, so that they can choose every time between Scylla and Harybdis? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u241	Thank you, too. Mr Simeon Ballis from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u242	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, what has really bothered colleagues in the bill or on the occasion of the bill? First of all, I am surprised to hear the Civic Opposition resigning us because, he says, "only fifteen SYRIZA Members were written as speakers to support this bill of the Ministry of Interior". How many people have been written by the New Democracy to support the opposition of Officer Response to this bill, the 'rusfetological', the 'benefits' bill, the 'which leads to the budget diversion' bill? Only three! They may, of course, have caught early incest in Room 151 to witness Mr. Georgiadis' testimony to this committee, which ignore the fact that all means of communication are working. What else can really bother the Opposition, as I heard many of the speakers from all places climbing the Step and saying their pain? Others say his pain because his script is not coming out 'Hey, Tsipras!' because he has lost his friends, someone else because he is unraveled, because the doro is falling apart and he will not be able to rejoice anymore! I also heard the Qualified Opposition with her rapporteur questioning the return to normality and the exit to the markets - his right, but doubts the reality - but that is what I must and we must all recognise, honestly, by recognizing and essentially taking responsibility for the past's course, which led the country to know. What did he say? "You repeat practices that led the country to bankruptcy." And what has he identified as such practices? Charitable recruitment, subsistence policies and customer arrangements. These are repeated in this bill. Well, that's what happened in the past. That's why we went to bankruptcy. Let's see, what of this is happening today? How many thousands of recruits does this bill take care of? Sixty-four! Not thousands. Sixty-four in perfection. They were identified by the Minister, speaking both in committee and today. Sixty-four intakes to correct injustices. How many allowances are given and what is the allowance? The allowance for unhealthy work for cleaning contractors, which means the same work as permanent, so the same benefits. That's what you're complaining about. And what other provision is there? Personal protective measures. What articles of the bill made a nominal negative report? Articles 15, 18, 80 and 81 only. And what do these articles regulate? Rehabilitation of workers in unsolved municipal enterprises - people must have work - the possibility of municipal radios - every non-private should be avoided - the restoration of successors of the AACC who entered tables, but never worked because they had to be a permanent hostage reserve in pre-election promises and hope trading. But why should opposition be contrary to these regulations? Once again, the rapporteur for Officerial Responsibility was sincere. By cutting jobs, benefits and benefits from workers we can save money and reduce taxation, he told us. To the benefit of whom? This is the heart of his own success story, reflecting their own polar philosophy and ideology. It is the past, which predestinates the future of their policy. Dismissals, dismantling of the public sector, cutting off all benefits, collapse of care, demolition of social security, and allegedly reduce costs. In fact, in order to put in place those who will cut private initiative and private profit. To promote the marketing of all social benefits. For the development of such electoral clients' interests in response to the needs of many. If with this election agenda you will go by 2019, you make us happy. Because, from what we have seen from the frequent reports, there must be an internal non paper 5, which directs your policy to the double delusion - of the SYRIZA. That's what you go all the way to the election, and we're really gonna enjoy it. You may be disturbed, but we are promoting another philosophy and another model: Improving the position of vulnerable social groups, supporting society, returning to normality, improving the indicators of the economy, but without other cuts. This draft law, which you so critically criticise, creates, ladies and gentlemen, a single framework for the operation and management of the TECs and, at the same time, regulates years of problems, which are afflicting both the staff of the municipalities and the citizens. It is important that the public and non-profit character of JHA is clarified and their status as water managers, which is treated as a public good. Also, with what is included in the bill, including recognition, as I have said before unhealthy work and contractors, the service in problematic and barren areas is being facilitated, the bureaucracy in the operation of municipal services by creating the Citizens' Registry is being reduced, the citizen is being facilitated in accessing these services, many problems of municipal service are being solved, debtd by households in order to settle their debts to the municipalities. It is a new framework, which will be complemented by the dialogue, which will take place with the new draft law on the reform of the new self-government Charter, which, as the Minister said, will have it in the autumn. That's why we'll have a lot to talk about when it's time, not today. Today we are talking about another bill, of immediate problems that need to be solved, and that is what we should be standing up for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u243	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that there are six colleagues left to speak and three parliamentary representatives. With the greatest tolerance, this doesn't take us after 19:00. There is, however, the point made by Mr Gregorakos and Mr Syntagakis - and they are right - that it is an inalienable right for any rapporteur to answer. That's for granted. We will therefore have a second word for those rapporteurs who want and as long as they go. There's no doubt about it. Just if we can get together in time, so we can finish as quickly as possible. My colleague, Evangelia Vagonakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u244	I will not talk about the representative of the Golden Dawn, whose crimes are neither laundered nor offset and I will not answer Mr Karagunis for the money of legal persons governed by public law and OTA, who have been tabled to the Bank of Greece. I think it is well known to everyone that this money is at the disposal of these bodies, and even they have been put there at a rate of 3.5% - greater than they used to be - and that is precisely because they are gaining. I will only stop on matters relating to the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, after a long consultation course, we are now coming to discuss another reform of the government in its attempt to facilitate the day-to-day life of the municipalities. The Ministry of Home Affairs bill aims to address pathogens, ambiguities and needs of OTAs. It seeks to solve several knots, left unsolved or further complicated by previous governments. This and many provisions testify to the number of forty. Of course, during the last two years, this is not the first time that we have been attempting targeted institutional interventions in the field of local self-government, so that it can respond to modern needs. However, those who have served local government know that most of the provisions of the draft law regulate constant demands. Of course we must stand by the first part of the bill and the intervention to modernise the operation of 30 municipal water and sewerage operations serving half of the country's population. After more than thirty years of implementation of Law No. 1069/1980, which brought about the entry into force of the framework for the functioning of the JHA - including the JHA Chania, since the first pan-Hellenicly established - it is, I think, time to update their institutional and operational upgrading, which is achieved both through the recognition of their non-profit character and by removing their possible dissolution through short-term majorities, by correcting problems relating to the functioning and decision-making of the JHA administrations, as well as other issues. All this, together with the abolition of the suspension of recruitment of personnel, I believe that they are breathtaking for all the JHA in the country. The second part of the bill deals with dozens of issues. Most of these have been proposed by representatives and OTA workers themselves. For example: Issues are being addressed concerning the solution of TAs and serious uncertainties created in relation to their property and staff. The continuation of programmes and the use of resources and financial instruments to be directed to self-government shall be ensured. It is protected and facilitated the operation of basic social structures with special care for border and small island or mountain municipalities. Debts between TAs and legal persons, as well as those to the Deposit and Loan Fund, are regulated. The possibility of repayment of dues to TAs, such as fines, calls, fees, contributions, with the exemption of surcharges and interest, up to a hundred instalments, is provided. Arrangements are introduced on the individual protection and health and safety of workers, the beneficiaries of the benefit of dangerous and unhealthy work are extended, and penalties are provided for municipal authorities and legal persons who do not comply with the relevant legislation. In the third part of the bill, injustices which have produced adverse effects for workers who have been discriminated against, are restored and outstanding issues of old recruitment notices are settled, which had never been completed. Improve the self-helpful implementation of projects and specific provisions ensure the protection of the health and safety of workers. The first chapter of Part Four establishes the civil register that comes to combine two databases, the registry and the register, strengthening the effectiveness of not only the LAGs, but also I believe in all the public bodies. Also amended n.e.c. 115/2014 and a new Special Secretariat for Citizenship is set up, in which the existing Department of Citizenship is part of a more effective management of problems. Finally, a Directorate-General for Local Government is established to manage resources, property and development tools effectively. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to close by mentioning the attitude of Officerial Opposition, which, contrary to other parties, has, despite the individual objections, gone into a fertile dialogue - and this is a good thing - unfortunately once again in good cooperation with the media, attempted to completely degrade the bill. I'm really impressed by her attitude. Really, what they say are talking about with people in local communities? How else can I understand why it bothers a small island town or mountain town to be able to decide to provide food and housing for the doctor, the fireman, the teacher? How else can I understand why personal protective measures are bothering to be taken not only by the permanent in cleanliness, but also by the contractors? How can I understand why the creation of a Citizens' Registry is disturbing? I assume they don't want people to get rid of useless and time-consuming bureaucracy? Is it, then, rousphetti the recruitment of those who succeeded in CSCE contests and never were hired, why did they appoint their own children out of the window? Really, what are they saying? We must not follow the law that binds the state to the decisions of the AACC. And that is what the so-called legitimate placers say. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] That is what I would say in contrast to what has been said and the positive attitude of the institutions - previously said by other colleagues - and once again I would like to point out that a government bill shows a broad consensus on the overwhelming majority of the provisions and that is a very positive one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u245	Thank you, too. Mrs Stuboulis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u246	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, I did not intend to deal with the big political fringe, the exit to the markets, the improvement of economic indicators, the real creation of new jobs. However, once again listening to the tale of the lost 100 billion euros, namely, 55% of GDP -185 billion is the country's GDP over the last two years -, in the two years that SYRIZA and ANEL are running, I can only ask the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy how I would be asking him if he would come down from the Step I claim that I have strangled my leg because he turned me over and asked me to compensate for the money that I would receive from a contract that I would make in the next few days with the NBA? A joke? Well, only with a joke can your joke be answered for the 100 billion euros. The draft law, which we are debating today, deals with a number of chronological issues of local government, and even in line with the demands of those groups, the reasoning and the citizens, in the end, who are suffering from the current situation in their daily lives. This is called democratic sensitivity. It takes a lot of courage to characterize rheumatism and blackness by the kings of the rosyphet and the doctors of Mavroyalism, whose state for many decades - and I must point out here that it is unacceptable that these phenomena should be combined with post-multipleism, because, as the oldest people remember, the younger people can easily be informed in the period of dictatorship and in the pre-declaratory period - it has caused the economic collapse that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government - were called upon to face in 2015. The first provisions of the draft law modernise and update the legislation on municipal waste water and sewerage operations. There are still several steps to be taken to create those bodies that will make integrated water management per water basin. In any case, however, the prospect of privatization of water is infinitely removed, and this is another unspeakable thorn, which explains the menagement of the least-state fans against the bill. The menstruation also gives rise to any provision that protects workers' rights, from the right to work for those successful and successful in a public tender and not following actions by some, as is the case for those who work in a municipal company that closes up, up to the right to a small improvement in remuneration, or compensation for those due and not offered on personal protection. However, the maximum outcry is reserved to the provision that protects those workers who have refused to contribute to the feeding of the carnival of redundancies set by the then Minister for Administrative Reform and now Chief of Officerial Reformation, because solidarity between workers is the highest value for competition fans, 'all against all', who are slandering these workers with the jury and holders of false titles, when, in these triumphs of excellence, the climbing of false title holders continues, at least as long as it can withstand their'medium'. It takes a lot of imagination to find some reason to criticise the provisions on the creation of a Citizens' Registry, which unify and modernise the maintenance of data by Municipalities and Administrations, identify access, but also their use by citizens, as well as judicial control, when required. As for the provisions of the Special Secretariat of Citizenship, it needs no imagination, but sadism to criticise them, in fact asking to maintain the current administrative regime, which penalises those children born in that country by parents who, through their hard work for years, supported its development, and who have been a major part of the working class and who have blooded its insurance funds with their contributions and the public fund with their paradoxes, the amount of which has been equal to the incomes of shipowners for some years, penalises these children who have not known and who do not want to have any other country. With the new arrangement, there is hope to take citizenship in reasonable time, so that they do not risk being arrested as immigrants without papers or being denied the possibility of supplementing computers for higher education. Finally, I want to refer to three amendments. First of all, regarding the extension of the list of leading fire extinguishers for a five-year term of office of 2011, from which the necessary seasonal ones are also selected. We are talking about people with many years of experience when they are called - and let us wish for the results of climate change that have begun to be seen, not to force us to call more and more - they offer major services, both in urban and forest firefighting. They deserve to keep doing so. In addition, the two amendments proposed by the Deputy Minister for Labour give a new impetus to interventions that are very important, already legislated and under way. Social care units are supported by staff and other specialities, ensuring the financing and operation of the "Help at Home" for another year, until a definitive solution is found, grants from the regions special accredited bodies of the National Social Care System, additional work fees are paid to the staff of the civil servants of the Ministry - due at night and exceptional - and facilitate the movement of disabled persons to the certified bodies of the National Social Care System. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. In addition, the procedures, which will allow for the temporary relocation of special social groups, as a priority Roma, from impoverished camps in areas that meet the conditions for hygiene and decent living, in accordance with the proposals of the relevant municipalities and under the authority of the Temporary Relocation Committee for Special Social Groups, a coordinating body for the relevant ministries and with the cover of expenditure from national and European resources, are in progress. This amendment promotes the implementation of the national strategy for social inclusion of the Roma in order to eliminate the phenomenon of our citizens living in extremely inappropriate conditions that fuel stereotypes against them and prevent their social integration and the mobility of the new generation. Nor can I imagine a reason why it should not be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u247	Thank you, too. The Parliamentary Representative of the River Mr George Amyras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u248	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Stavoulis will allow me to give her the answer to the question she has asked if any Member of the New Democracy would see her and she would suffer a slap in her leg, who would be the fault of it. It's just things: You'd be unfortunate and he'd be ganteme. That's life. It's just things in this life. Why am I saying that?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u249	That wasn't the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u250	Because the claim for the loss in the Greek economy of 100 billion euros, during Varoufakiad, was not made by irresponsible lips, nor is it an argument of the Officerial Response. It is the responsible position of the Governor of the Central Bank, the Bank of Greece, Mr Stournara. Is Mr Stournaras waking you now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u251	He's always shaved me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u252	Not now, huh? From the old days.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u253	Just now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u254	‘Only now?’ You say, Minister? But his bond, you were rolling yesterday and we went out on the market.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u255	Was it his father's?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u256	I would like, dear Mr Skourletis, a comment from you, to really hear your position about our exit on the markets.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u257	I did it before, but I might do it again for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u258	Do it for me. Thank you very much. I was on the board. If I say the exit was set up, if I say the exit was accurate, would you agree? You won't agree. If I say a new memorandum comes in autumn, what will you say? “What are you? a prophet?’ I agree this way. If I tell you that the exit into the market was only for symbolism and not for substance, because there are two major difficulties? The first is that all the qualitative indicators for the economy are downwards compared with the last time we came out on the market, and the second is that our exit on the market serves the election purposes of Mrs Merkel, which will claim to the European public that she will not lend any more to the Greeks. If I tell you this, what will you answer me?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u259	That you're in danger.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u260	That I'm in danger, Mrs. Vaki. Mrs. Vaki, you're fucked. I just read you Mr. Skourletis' statement on Greece's exit to the markets, 2014. And I'll say he was right. He fell in, even with three years' difference, with three years' delay.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u261	Not for Merkel. The rest of you added something.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u262	No relationship.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u263	Not for Merkel? You went out for Merkel? Did you guys fall in the rest?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u264	I didn't say about Merkel. The rest.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u265	Didn't you say about Merkel? I take your statements from REAL NEWS. Get Merkel out of here. Let's see the rest of the three key elements of your claims. Indeed, our exit to the markets is accurate, because the interest rate we have achieved is 4.65%, when the loan rate for the memoranda is 1.5%. Foreign loan sharks, as they usually call themselves, lend us 1.5 percent. The market outside loaned us 4,6%. Let's go see the second element, to make a comparison of what Mr. Skourletis said in 2014 and what is happening today. The qualitative indicators of the economy have not deteriorated? Didn't we again fall into the recession in the years 2015-2016?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u266	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u267	We're down, Minister. Don't question the official evidence. I'm leaving Mrs. Merkel. I mean, that Maximus has celebrated, considering that a technical objective, such as exiting markets, has been achieved. Where--how am I supposed to say it? - You were rocking, now you are fondling, as you are, of course. The same happened with Mr. Varoufakis. From where he was the government's asset, eventually a little - he's become graphic. And here again I would like Mr Skourletis to make a comment and to ask me the question: In March 2015, when Mr Varoufakis presented his own plan for the parallel programme, which was finally made a parallel currency, you, Mr Skourletis, what were you taking from his presence in the Ministerial Council? Has the prospect of a parallel way of paying or of a parallel currency come in line with you, just to say it? What's the problem? The problem is, we have a memorandum, but no money. We know that. Not to be tempted to ask for another comment by Mr. Skourletis on what he said again in 2014, that exit on the markets weakens the demand for debt cancellation. Is that true, Mr. Skourlet? The exit to the markets takes us out of our goal - then you were talking about debt write-off, now is the deletion - for a better settlement of the time horizon for debt repayment and the decompression of interest rates? Is it true or not? Why was the bond issued? First of all, I think, of course, that Greece has come out on the market. I think that's a good thing. I have no problem saying it, as I said in 2014 for the government at the time. I said that the Samara government was doing very well and tried the reflexes of the markets in relation to the strengths and prospects of the Greek economy. But the truth is that yesterday's issue does not save and, unfortunately, I would say - the rehab of the country from the memoranda. I would remind you that from 1-1-2019, which is less than a year and a half from now, pensions will be reduced by 18%.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u268	Not all of them. Don't be in danger.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u269	Not all of them. Yes, sir. However, pensions in the majority of them will be reduced by 18%.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u270	That's disinformation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u271	Are you questioning again that it will swallow the tax-free amount to such limits that a wage earner who currently earns EUR 500 a month, due to the fall in the tax-free threshold - that is, the Extra Memorandum of Tsipras - will be taxed for a year with EUR 650? In other words, more than one wage per year will be lost by the wage earner of EUR 500 from a tax signed by Tsipras - Kammenos. I don't think you're questioning that, either. That is why I am telling you that market recourse is not the pill that solves the problems. If we do not create a Greek state that is effective, which gives priority to healthy productive forces, with rules and transparency, as is done in all the civilised countries of Europe and the whole world, then our path will be difficult. No matter how many bonds we make, we won't get out of the source. However, the contradictory statements by government officials on the way out of the memoranda and re-entry into the markets are a typical scene, I would say, of the general confusion experienced by SYRIZA on this subject. But what I really don't forgive is when the government starts rocking in a stubborn way - to tell me, when you rock, there's no elegant way - justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u272	Well, not justice!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u273	Uh, no? Yes, sir. I shall again refer to recent statements by Mr Skourletis. Mr. Skourletis, it's your bill, so I've been looking back at you and what you were saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u274	Will you talk about the bill?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u275	I'll come to that, too. So Mr Skourletis spoke about circles of justice, which oppose the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u276	You'll have to read it all.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u277	You'll read it to me. I only have that part that I was interested in.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u278	I'll remind you later, Mr. Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u279	Answer me, Minister. Maximus took a step further...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u280	Shame on you! Selective pieces?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u281	But why do you respond that way? I have not seen you react in this way, dear fellow Member, when you signed and voted for all the assets of the country for a century.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u282	You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u283	Where was your racing there? But the vote speaks more than anything. I was telling you that Maximos went a little further with justice, saying that the judicial associations represent opposition. I would like to ask you this: where was the appointment of Mrs Thanos at the Prime Minister's Legal Office? Isn't it an indirect politicisation of justice? So I inform you that in most European countries, when the judges leave the high ladder of the judiciary, they cannot undertake any work for five years, but no work, because they have a wealth of experience and knowledge. The Greek state, the Greek society has invested in them and in confidence in both money and a thousand and two. These are incompatible things between them. Let us, therefore, at the end of justice do its job and respect the separation of powers. But the legislative power that we are here, the executive which is the government and the judiciary. I'm going to comment on some things in the bill now. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to stick to the amendment by the Ministry of the Environment on forests and building. We warned you from the Step of the House during the debate of No 4467/2017 a few months ago - we had voted against that law - that there might be a question of creating state aid on the part of the European Commission. Unfortunately, we've been verified. At that time, I told you - and I had tabled this document here in the Minutes, which I hope some of my colleagues have received - for the analysis carried out by the political responsibility of the Justice, Transparency and Human Rights of the River, the eminent legal person, Mrs Gianna Panagopoulos. So we said, 'Be careful, because we see the European Commission coming against us'. And here he comes. By letter from the Directorate-General for Agriculture of the Commission - and addressed to the Greek Delegation of the European Union - entitled 'Forest Legislation Plan' clearly states: 'On the basis of the information we have at our disposal' - the European Agriculture Commissioners say - '... the Commission cannot rule out that these measures which you have voted on and which are now repeated by this amendment contain State aid which could be difficult to justify'. So the amendment we are proposing is that you should definitely withdraw it, because, among other things, it gives the possibility of issuing building permits, even when the forest map is temporary. Secondly, it extends the anti-constitutional arrangements of Law 4467/2017- which we did not vote on - without any conditional interventions in the outdated forest land. That's a problem. Thirdly, it allows, in breach of the Constitution, the lifting of refreshing acts and in the cases of forests created in the fields between 1945 and 2017 and evacuated. Furthermore, it restores a catalytic, I would say, deterioration of the Forestry Committees set up at the level of the Heads of State and at the level of other members of the Commission, and further complicates the question of the confusion between the forest maps of the register and the tariff. Finally, it provides for the extension of time limits for the legalisation of illegal installations - arbitrary - in forests and forest land, in breach of Article 117 of the Constitution - which we should have in a horizontal way and without any forestry criterion. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like you to study the amendment in detail. Minister, I have the feeling that it is an amendment that has probably escaped your radar. I cannot accept that you in this bill will accept an amendment that makes up - downside to the Constitution - I do not like to use other expressions of cliché - and paves the way for all those arbitrary people who built it all in streams, forests and archaeological sites, 'We are still nice, we do not mind, we have the way through this amendment to do everything legally and nicely'. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Dannelis was truly extremely detailed and creative in his criticism and position on the draft law. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I conclude, Mr President, by saying that Article 15 for the development companies of the local authorities contains many risks of returning companies which, anyway, were not only development companies. How can a company that is indebted and closed because it does not have to pay its wages? What kind of development will she make in a municipality? Also, with regard to Articles 80, 81 and 82, I also express my opposition and we shall vote against them. Thank you. I'll be all ears listening to your answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u284	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u285	Mr President, could I have the floor on staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u286	Will you do it now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u287	If I do not take the personal floor, Mr President, when will I do so?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u288	I have not offended you, Minister. It wasn't a personal attack.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u289	It was a personal report. I'd like to clarify some things that...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u290	Aren't you going to do it later?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u291	Maybe I don't. I'll do it now. I shall speak briefly, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u292	Okay. Mr Amyras has evaporated the spectrum of political controversy, of course. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u293	Of course, Mr. Amyras obviously had other jobs and he wasn't here. He'd be busy on a board in the morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u294	I was on the board.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u295	I will not repeat exactly what I said this morning, commenting on yesterday's trial exit on the markets. I would like to say, however, to you, by mentioning one of the points I have mentioned, that we must assess today's step and what we will follow, as will the then exit of Mr Samaras with what followed, that is, a second failed exit and, above all, what we received in January 2015 as the state of the economy and society: the funds are dried up, a broken situation, outside the programme. At his request, he had asked to go out, get out of programme. So if you want to evaluate what the previous Samara - Venizelos government has done, you have to do it as a whole, as you do to us. I have been expecting a greater imagination in your disposition than in re-enacting an impeccable argument, an entirely off-site and timely report of 100 billion lost. Where are those 100 billion lost from the Greek funds? How were they not captured anywhere? Leave this - not propaganda anymore - a funny argument, which does not correspond to reality, because if the country had been damaged with 100 billion, we would have a reputation in 2015, in 2016 and when you know that the economy is already moving positively and there are these positive elements that you do not see, such as an increase in exports, an increase in investments in specific sectors, confidence in markets, which has been confirmed - that is most important of all - from yesterday's bond and its course and very good prospects. We don't. As I said in the morning, you will not hear from my lips an attempt to irritate difficulties or much more an attempt to triumph. However, in any case, you referred to a meeting of the then Ministerial Council in March 2015. Because I was a member of both the Ministerial Council and the Governing Council - the closest body - I tell you that there has never been such a project presented by Mr Varoufakis at the level of the Ministerial Council for a parallel currency. Do you charge the government for what? About something he didn't do? You're criticizing her why she didn't do that? Because it was answered by life itself, with specific options. The choice was one, strategy: to seek a solution within the Eurozone. That's why? To avoid the ever more violent poverty of the Greek people. That was why we made this painful compromise, which, if not done, would be much worse not only for the majority of the Greek people who would lead to even greater and violent poverty, but also for the country's geostrategic interests. It was therefore a very clear strategic choice for the government. He didn't flirt with other options. Do you hear that for the first time? Of course not. But you wanted in this film noir, in this viper we've been watching in recent times, which will certainly help the sales of Mr. Varoufakis' book, to take your contribution.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u296	Not at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u297	Okay, you have every right to do it. I'm just advising you on your own credibility, not to adopt anything that's heard. Political points to make. Political criticism to exercise. As far as the circles of justice are concerned, I told you to read the whole of my statement, because you refer to statements I have made all last week, which said that no one is above criticism, obviously both justice and political power and legislative power and executive power. Are you questioning that? So we have a right - and this is the right of our constitution and democracy - to criticise. One by hand.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u298	That's all.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u299	Secondly, obviously any criticism, particularly from official lips, must be made through the absolute respect for the separation of powers, as is imposed by the democratic functioning of our culture. That is what I said in the statement, which you have forgotten. You've chosen not to mention them. Of course, I have referred to circles - not judiciary justice, which in the end seem to go beyond their powers. Because I have never seen such positions from trade unions for the country's official democratically elected government and say that it does what is happening in Poland or Turkey. Resurrect those who support such things, for these are no good. This controversy is a dead end. Degrade, therefore, to the tons of all. That includes you. Unless we want here to create impressions. For the bill, you avoid placing enough. You have done well and referred to the very fruitful, thorough and thorough intervention of Mr Dannelis. I tell you to adopt Mr Dannelly' s reasoning and remarks rather than Mr Kartsoulis, who has really come out in public and said the tenths. This shows the size of his inrelevance and in relation to the functioning of public administration and the functioning of local government, as well as the content of the bill itself.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u300	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u301	I shall conclude, Mr President. I'm not going to take the floor again. To clarify, my report now is not to you, it is to Mr. Karagunis. And I don't take the floor for dentistry. That's what I'm saying. It's easy. He said Mr. Karagunis, moving in a similar wavelength to you, Mr. Amyras, and making a free translation of the Prime Minister's statements, that he made mistakes in relation to some of his options or did not know and made mistakes. You know, that may be invoked by a citizen. Can it not be invoked by PASOK and New Democracy parties who have known and led to it here for years, because the PASOK and New Democracy governments have known forty, forty years what the problems have been and instead what they have done? They overcrowded the country, destroyed the social state, led to the unemployment world, shut down businesses. They're coming now, even though I'm hearing they don't eat lotus, they don't work as lube-eaters. But that's not the case. Finally, there was a mention - and Mr Karagunis called us before his speech - of matters relating to the staffing of the municipalities. But we ourselves said that there is a matter of subsidization. We have said that we are trying in a methodical way, within this suffocating framework envisaged for recruitment, to be able to respond. The New Democracy, however, is proposing to adopt an even more firm system of recruitment, instead of 'one to four' and 'one to three', which will be time and one to two', to return to 'one to five'. This subsidization, therefore, in the New Democracy proposal will be permanent, because it underestimates both the role of the public and the role of local government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u302	Mr President, I ask for the floor for a minute on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u303	There's no staff. Unless we want to help Mr. Varoufakis in his spectacle crisis. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u304	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I ask you to withdraw the designations at least at the expense of Mr. Karcsouli. Mr. Kartsoulis is a model of political man. If there were in the Greek state five Karlspools, it would be very different for the state machine. But I realize that you, Mr. Skourletis, are seeing him in your sleep as well as in your sleep. You're all talking about Mr. Cartassouli. Why? Because Mr. Kartsoulis studies, he finds, finds and reveals evidence for the Greek State as well, for the rubber processes where many people can enter...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u305	All right, Mr. Amyras. Personal with the deaf now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u306	...and mainly because Mr. Kartsoulis dreams of a public administration worthy of Greek society, not the public administration that you as government have built and is a public administration failed. You've taken a bad public administration and made it a rhetoric. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please withdraw the designations against Mr. Kartsouli. I wish we had another five Cartows in Greek public administration and political life. Things would be much better.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u307	Mrs Kozobol, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u308	The fact that today's bill solves years of problems and has a positive sign is not only the opinion of the institutions, it also results from the attitude of counter-population. The speaker has not given a single word about the bill, only on the forestry amendment, which she also said was paraphrased and twisted. I'll answer him on time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u309	And he might agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u310	For the woods, I said...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u311	Only for the bill. I'll answer you, Mr. Amyras. I shall be speaking about this amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u312	Please, Mr. Amyras!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u313	We have heard a number of criticisms of the country's successful exit on the markets, when the international press, economic factors, excite the fact. We have heard of manipulation of justice, of the supposed benefit of the country. We heard about the book Baroufakis, now that Varoufakis has become trustworthy, while he once was the one. Suddenly, we heard about the refusal of the Left's visions. Fortunately we have not heard in this Chamber at least about the stamp's allowance. For the bill under discussion, nothing but screaming for so-called rosphetological services. But I don't want to blame the bill. Under Law No. 1069/1980 the JHA was established and the framework for the operation of municipalities autonomous in the public and non-profit sectors in order to manage the most important natural asset, water. In the thirty-seven years of operation of the institution, it goes without saying that the institutional framework for the establishment and functioning of the institution must be updated, modernised, incorporated the rich experience of the JHA so far, much more so that, with Law 3852/2010, "KALIKRATI", changes to the self-government Charter and the JHA merged with each other, by extending their territorial competence. In addition, the environmental, social, economic and development significance of the projects falling within the scope of JHA activities is such that it makes it absolutely necessary to provide for arrangements providing for new development opportunities and access of JHA to investment tools that will enable them to meet the new challenges of the era and the need to modernise their infrastructures and services. All this is institutionalised by the draft law in question with the express safeguarding of the non-profit character of JHAs and enabling JHA to establish specific tariffs for vulnerable groups. I'm going to dial some of the provisions of the bill. The municipality is obliged to provide personal protection to beneficiaries of workers, clothing, milk, and specific conditions are laid down under which beneficiaries of workers will receive financial compensation for the years 2012-2016, which were not provided to them, and often received with their own money or risked their lives. The non-providing of personal protective equipment in the future brings strict sanctions to the municipalities. The beneficiaries of the benefit of dangerous and unhealthy work are distinguished and the disciplinary persecution of officials and mayors who have not provided evidence of the evaluation and re-checking of the contracts for the term of office of Mitsotakis in this Ministry is ceased. They shall be converted from part-time to full-time contracts of workers at the LAGs subject to the decision of the Municipal or Regional Council. It is intended to provide incentives to officials from mountain and island municipalities for the maintenance of public services, health centres, EAEC, police officer, port, fire personnel, etc. Also - this is very important - the aids granted by municipalities, in kind or in cash, to our economically weak fellow citizens, luxurious or in the event of exceptional needs are being made tax-free. Many colleagues have also said very importantly, the establishment of the Citizens' Registry, that information system that will be maintained, all the elements of the National Budget and executive acts to facilitate citizens. It has also been said about the Special Secretariat of the Nationality, there is no doubt that the need to rationalise these services is now undeniable, because thousands of applications are waiting to be decided by the competent authorities. It will therefore coordinate this whole process. It has been said about the counter-majority, without any more mass restrictions that were to date. Compensation is granted to municipal councillors who move more than 10 kilometres to attend the Municipal Council meeting. It is also very good that private individuals, in addition to the municipalities that were to date, are able to incinerate deceased incineration centres and thus facilitate the creation of the first incinerator in the country. The bill provides for concessional debt arrangements to the municipalities, such as fines, calls, etc., as well as the possibility of adjusting the municipal debts. The operation of DUTY, which were forced to close if three continuous balances were injurious. Not to say what they've offered and what they've offered them. We must stimulate them and not give them a charismatic shot. It is also good that the incompatibilities of the legal system provided for so far are suspended and that the councillors of the municipalities can also exercise a legal right at the same time. Here we have also seen crocodile tears about the alleged burden on the municipalities of the concrete measures adopted. So let me point out on this point that the budgets of the municipalities are adopted one-off and that the amounts provided for in the budget are allocated on the basis of population and other criteria. In addition, the draft law enables municipalities to exalt their economics by applying the two-tier system, by regulating their debts, by exempting the income tax on immovable property, provided that the property is used or transferred to the public, by yielding to the small island and mountain municipalities the amount collected from the beer tax, by clarifying that after the abolition of a legal person governed by public law, an OTA, its property is situated in the municipality that it had set up. Let us say a word about the amendments. Firstly, for the amendments relating to improving forestry legislation. You know very well that what is being attempted is an incision, it is a reform that leads to the register. Without becoming forest maps, we cannot become Forestry in turn. We therefore have a continuous improvement for problems that have arisen since the recovery of forest maps. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Of course I do not say that what my colleague just said does not correspond to the reality, because in reality, there is no possibility of building in forest buildings, as he said, simply extending the deadline given by Law 4280/2014, for livestock facilities and other associated facilities. I also welcome the extension you are giving for a year of the five-year list of complex fire-fighting fire-fighting fire-fighting fire-fighting fire-fighters, so that, if necessary, there are gaps to be filled with by those with the know-how who have been employed for several years. To conclude, the bill under way solves chronic illnesses and distortions that have aroused hereditaries, workers in the OTAs and citizens for years, shuts down wounds of years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u314	Thank you. Mrs Triantafel has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u315	Thank you, Mr President. The provisions of this draft law do not constitute an integrated intervention designed to radically change local government. Indeed, there is no cosmogenicity with this bill. However, it is necessary to lay down precisely the provisions which had arisen over time and which absolutely needed legislative regulation. It is indeed the aim of this intervention that is being made today. Arrangements on the functioning, financial and staff of TAs as well as provisions on the modernisation of the operating framework of JHAs are particularly useful at a time when both the role and the nature of local government change and the need for the Greek society to restrain itself on the question of what local government is needed. Self-government is considered and is the closest to the citizens and at the same time a participatory institution. We therefore need to ask ourselves what its pathogens have been and how they will be treated. What's this bill bothering you about? Is it an opportunity for opposition reasons to be re-examined, re-established anti-government arguments, especially from the New Democracy and the PASOK, which are experiencing a deadlock, a failure to impose the political agenda? What's bothering you? It has been said that it promotes partyism. I should like to say here that the rapporteur of the New Democracy has today given a broader sense of interpretation of the rumour. It's not - it says - that we're helping each other individually. In other words, each of us, a SYRIZA MEP, is not going to suit any of us, but we are facilitating social groups, ministries. Okay, he said it. They were your clients, in his way, of course, but as your clients they knew the game, the game of hostage, they knew other games. The rapporteur of the New Democracy does well and makes this small point, but so important. Why? Because the rapporteur of the New Democracy is well aware, as the whole world knows, who were appointed to the municipalities and municipal services, who made production structures dependent on their political offices through the management of European programmes and money, who set up NGOs to raise European funds, who replaced production from consumption. It is well known that the rapporteur of the New Democracy, like the whole world, was involved in their political existence. However, there are other things. There is a common mixture of criticism. Let me say that I am referring to a New Democracy colleague who spoke with the usual criticism of the Left, who is incapable of or totally or utopian. He mentioned, to say, the Prime Minister and his choices towards partners. I will remind you of one thing in the Civic Opposition: I will refer to statements by the recently-expressed Constantine Mitsotakis about Mr Samaras. He said: 'Dangerous'. It will certainly be remembered by the New Democracy colleagues and otherwise it is in the same party. I won't take it down. I do not really want to talk about domestic controversy. Families' suspicions, we don't touch them. Let me come to the bill myself. I want to talk and stand on two rules. The first - all of them have been said - is an ambitious reform, which hopes to institutionalise a modern way of serving citizens and is the project for the establishment of the so-called Citizens' Register. Citizens' Registry is a strategic option by simplifying and automating the procedures applied to municipalities for the service of citizens. The provision of integrated high-value electronic services is possible to remove certificates and attestations issued at the request of the citizen for use in public and in the public sector. Services, such as the Budget and the Headquarters Office, will be able to "communication", so that the public services receive immediately information that they now need to produce from the public themselves. At the same time, the citizen himself will have access to the data concerning him. Also important is the efforts of the legislator to modernise JHA, the strengthening of JHA, which they have spent all these years and have, indeed, provided significant and great work. The institutional framework for the establishment and operation of municipal water and sewerage operations dates back to 1980. The need for modernisation was undeniable, despite the intermediate interventions which have been attempting over the years. This was discussed with representatives of both the administrations and the workers. Amongst other things, the new provisions explicitly provide for their non-profit character, facilitate the use of new investment instruments, and define the possibility of participation in policy making instruments, as they are now treated as water managers and not as users. Changes the composition of the boards to make it more representative: Participation of a representative and a minority of the municipal worker board and others. It harmonizes the pricing policy of the JHA, on the basis of the institutionalised principle of recovering water costs and the decisions of the National Water Commission, and provides for the possibility of introducing a social invoice for vulnerable groups. Problems are solved years, which have worked at the expense of workers wages and others. But here I would like to say, Minister, that there are other problems which are mainly expelled by the Kallikrates and the diseases it has brought to these agencies. There have been, say, damaged networks since 1960, which have not been changed over all these years to too many JHAs in too many cities. There are debts to PPC, which we might have to see other ways, even though there are many more doses. However, we can see how we can best resolve this issue and, of course, there is also subsecution. I will agree with everything that has been said by many colleagues and opposition to control and efficiency. But I'm going to ask you this: are you sure? Because all these years I think that's all you've done. Finally, you will allow me to refer to a more general comment. It was heard by SYRIZA that the same policy was followed. I think it's not time to talk about our political options after 2015. However, I will be content with stressing the need to transform the state. I will say this again: we are not interested in being just an expression of discontent, a protest. We're interested in SYRIZA having a government status. However, legality and representative government rule, government government needs social acceptance. There must be some kind of social rulership. Therefore, the right of the Left to bring about changes within the institutions, the state, the laws lies in having power in society, the people. I believe that if this harmonisation occurs, it will be more disturbing than anything. Otherwise, in general, the changes not only to this bill and to this level are not a definitive process, but a flow with progress, with backwards, with uncertainty. Today we must address a grounded, clear and coherent development proposal based on the strategic needs of the country and of the workers. It's an undertaking that's constantly transformed. It can't be done once. It is enough to serve the needs of transition to another Greece, namely the people's needs.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u316	Mr Megloumoustakas Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres has the floor. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u317	Ladies and gentlemen, this multi-project is divided into four parts, which are developed in thirty-nine articles. While the bill seemingly seeks to put in a class of OTAs, a mixture of their debts, their function, their institutional framework, we believe - if not of rhysphetological, problematic regulations, which will perpetuate OTA diseases. In other words, the sinful practices that have been followed for so many years by PASOK, New Democracy, will also be repeated in the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. In fact, from what we understand - and I wish we could make a mistake - you are trying to create your own clientele in Ottas, and you are doing this with hundreds of "menu" recruitments, which you might hope to be grateful for, that you have put them in this " paradise" of the public when the rest of the country lives in a desert. Because that is what your policy has done so far to strengthen this situation, which you have not brought us, but the previous ones. We read the special report from the General Accounting Office of the State and understand that the cost for the State will ultimately be translated into taxes and other taxes, pension reductions, increases in contributions. Currently 80% of the income of free professionals, small and medium-sized enterprises and small and medium-sized enterprises, all people who are not supported by the State, belongs to the state. You get 80% of those who pay taxes with which you build this party army. What the previous speakers have done, unfortunately, we see that you are doing so too. The Centro Association's positions for OTAs are clear. We have published them and good and usefully would be to look at them, as we cannot tell them in a speech in time. We will go through the bill and comment on the first part of the bill, Articles 1 to 15, where there are provisions, which, based on the importance of the basic public good of the JHA, namely water, but also on the European experience of the water and sewerage sector, which are attempting to establish an institutional framework for the organisation and operation of the JHA, cannot be described as a negative one and, indeed, it will be something with which we will agree and see it positively. However, in the second part - that is to say in Articles 16 to 108 on the arrangements relating to the organisation, operation, economics, personnel of the ATTs and of these legal persons - which is divided into the three chapters, there are too many problematic provisions, as we have said before. Things have gotten out of hand in this bill. Every time we go up to the Step, we talk about "mothers". Unfortunately, we have the impression that this is where things leave a normal orbit. I will mention some of these articles and not all of them, because time will still not be enough. First I'll talk about Article 38. A problematic article providing for the re-establishment of two posts of journalists per region by means of a fixed-term employment contract which lasts as long as the Regional Administrator's term of office, without the procedure for the approval of the three-member Commission, which is automatically resolved by the end of the term of office of the Regional Director. Is that what the country needs? It is good to create new jobs, but that is not what we need. We don't see any reason why this article should be in this bill. The next article I want to comment on is Article 50, which refers to the regularisation of the LGB's financial outstandings to the Deposit and Loan Fund. We in the Central Association do not want this problem to be solved, but the way you bring the solution is not right. There is a dubiousness and can be seen from the words ‘with a derogation’ of the provisions in the texts, without any specific and adequate justification. Another problematic article is Article 62, which introduces a charge on gross income from sanitary shops. On casino business revenues and businesses operating within casinos, this fee is at 2%, while for nightclubs, dancing rooms and other shops with drinks and spectaculars, cafes, entertainment centers and dance centers with music, the upper end is 5%. On what criterion does it give such percentages to casinos over everything else? Why would this unequal treatment exist? We can't figure it out. The problem is also Article 75, which amends Article 69e of Law 4270/2014 by adding a subparagraph specifically to Grade I and Tier 2 and to the legal entities governed by public law. Cases of set-aside by issuing clearing orders shall be determined by a joint Ministerial Decision of the Ministers for the Interior and Finance. I want to ask you something. Why should we let all arrangements be made with a C.T.A.? Why does not the legislator himself say how the clearing warrants will be? You have, unfortunately, in many bills this regular joint ministerial decision. There is democracy here, and in some way in the way of democracy these issues should be dealt with. Unfortunately, the problematic articles continue and we go to Article 80 which regulates the issue of the appointment of assignees to tables of the AACC, should the legal persons to whom they have been allocated be abolished or resolved. The proposed provision therefore provides that lists of nominees of the AACC for whom allocation decisions have been adopted to legal persons of the ATOs which have either been repealed or dismantled or resolved, are to be appointed or derogated by way of derogation from any general or special provision to the entity to which the competences of the repealed entity are transferred. The appointment or recruitment shall be carried out in a personal capacity consisting of the act of appointment or recruitment. In the case of the appointment of permanent staff, a vacancy of the same category shall be reserved for as long as the personal position exists. The same will apply to IASCM lists assigned to the HR and ICM educational grades, who are recruited in return services to the entity which assumes the responsibilities of the repealed or solved legal person not required to decide on the allocation in accordance with Article 7 of L.4368/2016. You are creating, that is, personal positions and hiring. We want unemployment to be reduced and recruited, but this is not the right way, and I think that in private debates, you are all admitting it. Similar things to Article 81. This article refers to appointments on the basis of tables of final results of the IACC issued from 1-2009 to 31-12-2015. By this Article, therefore, it is provided by way of derogation from the provisions that the waiver of the obligation to fill in the vacant posts that will not be covered by the tables of definitive results issued between 2009 and 2015 and that the right of secondment or transfer to OTAs I and B grades and legal persons thereof is laid down and before the two-year trial service is completed exceptionally. The same situation in Article 82. Refers to the case of the coverage of organic positions in Grade I ATF by staff assigned to temporary tables of AEP and employed in accordance with Article 21(4) of Law 3584/2007. The proposed provision prejudges the continuation of the provision of the respective services by personnel already employed, as it is laid down that Grade I TETs and their legal persons may cover organic positions, vacant or new, recommended to meet the corresponding service needs in the existing RUs, TUs and HU Classes provisions by recruited persons in accordance with Article 24(4) of Law 3584/2007 from 1-1-2008 to 31-12-2010, which are not included in the lists of nominations. Article 87 now provides that contracts of private law of indefinite duration and fixed-term duration, a reduced working hours for ATAs and AOs and AOs and AOs, may be modified by increasing their working hours, up to the limit of full-time of the relevant grade and specialty, with a corresponding increase in their full-time remuneration. This amendment shall be made by means of a reasoned decision of the relevant municipal or regional council or of the board of directors of the legal person concerned at the request of the persons concerned. The decision shall be subject to compulsory legal review by the authority responsible for supervising the TA or legal authority concerned and its summary shall be published in the Official Journal of the Government. It is also laid down that school cleaners or cleaners whose working hours are converted may be employed in different units by decision of the City Council, issued at their request and according to the resulting service needs, as well as in different units of their placement. In other words, making full-time equals hiring, but cleaning houses will be the victims, because they will be made a ball and go from school to school. We don't know if that's what your government should do. Article 89 is another problematic article on staff matters for self-satisfaction. A flexible procedure is chosen here, effectively excluding OAED and SAEP. So, actually, what's being introduced here? Give wherever you want, i.e. "locals" and friends, works with self-determination, without the security margins of the SAEP. Article 97 is another article that we consider to be problematic and refers to personal protection instruments and measures for the health and safety of workers in the ITAs. Therefore, this arrangement provides exceptionally for the years 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016 the cash valuation and the reimbursement to beneficiaries under conditions of individual protection which have not been granted to them in the respective years, and is henceforth prohibited for the valuation and payment of them in cash. All these instruments should be in kind, but unfortunately this provision of Article 97 introduces unequal treatment between years and expectations are also created for the coming years. I would also like to refer to Rule 100. In this article it seems that you can't escape those who are after you and that the way you think is completely wrong and under no circumstances represent the new one. Article 100 concerns the cessation of disciplinary and criminal prosecutions of municipal officials and of the competent TAIs for the non-management of employee data. In particular, it is laid down that disciplinary proceedings carried out against municipal officials and the competent bodies of the ATTs, which did not provide data for OTA workers to the former Ministry of Administrative Reform and Electronic Governance, shall be terminated. Is it possible for a government to help some who did not do their job properly, some who did not obey the orders of the state itself? We cannot understand this article by any means. As far as the fourth part of the Civil Register is concerned, Articles 115-124 raise a big deal. In our opinion, the opinion of the Privacy Authority should have been sought, because these provisions are in line with the provisions of the Internal Affairs Minister and the opinion would have made sense to determine whether the intended provisions comply with the applicable personal data legislation. The protection of personal data is constitutionally regulated by Article 9A of the Constitution, as well as by the European Convention on Human Rights. It therefore has a super-legislative effect.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u318	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u319	There are, unfortunately, too many articles that we call ourselves problematic. Once again you come to plenary and prove not only to us, but also to the citizens who have supported you, that you are not much different from those who have led us here today, that you are not taking the news and, unfortunately, that this is how the hope of the citizens is lost in the political system. We're gonna have to change that and you're partners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u320	Mr. Igoumenides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u321	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I understand our activity - all our activity and all its forms, from our legislation, our actions - integrated in our efforts to get our country out of this economic power in which it has come. However, Mr President, I believe that where we see the country, some circles see an angle which they deserve and they need or want to take a short-sighted place, as we say. Where we see the land of our fathers and we make an effort to ensure, as far as possible, a better future for our children, there are cycles, in my opinion, who simply see fillets, where they want to come as economic conquerors and stay as economic conquerors. Mr President, I would like to ask myself, Mr President, who were most upset by Greece's exit to the markets yesterday? All these homes that bet, through SYRIZA's failure, on the failure of the country's effort or the representatives of Officerial Response, who took the floor and spoke from this here on the Step? Honestly, I wonder, and I don't know how to comment on it. He wants the Opposition - Recruitment, not only - to hide and the bitterness doesn't leave her. A member of the New Democracy party, Mr Karaguni, came out to talk to us about the public health system. Gentlemen of the New Democracy, if you have a worthy, ideological, political origins you have no equality, you cannot plan, plan actions and much more to remove the inequality of society. If you do not believe in equality, you cannot remove the inequalities in accessing our fellow citizens, our people, to health services. If you don't believe in the public health system, you can't fight and fight for it. It is also a difference here, which does not, of course, see as the representative of the Union of Centres. Really, I'd like him to answer us where he's looking, where he doesn't see any differences. Mr Karagunis said that the function of the "Annunciation" and not just the "Advertising". Why do workers have this costly public health system? Because, precisely, they see that they have a government next to them that is struggling to keep it, fighting to support it. Of course, you speak so much of SYRIZA's social policy as a whole. We will be given the possibility, anyway, of a subsequent health care bill, these days, to discuss it. But you are talking with such hatred, because we are really taking measures, such as access by our uninsured fellow citizens to the health system, hospital appointments - few, inadequate, but they were the first to become at this time - the financial support for hospitals, which for the first year have been closed with positive results. All these measures, together with the recruitments - they will come to the OTAs too - show that they are indeed the votes of our own policy that show that we can indeed get out of the crisis with society upright, contrary to you, gentlemen of the New Democracy, who believe and propose to get out of the crisis through the economic death of the poor and the weak. I consider redundancies to be aspects of economic death, I consider the reductions in wages and pensions to be aspects of this destruction of productive forces, aspects of your policy. And here is our difference, Mr. Representative of the Union of Centres, that you do not see differences between us and the New Democracy. It is self-evident, ladies and gentlemen. Thirty-seven years after the founding law of the JHA, we come to update and modernise their institutional framework. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, That's a big deal. It was something that was necessary. It is necessary to do this. Yet, you are incapable of even participating in this debate. You are incapable of politics, because you are blinded by your ideology against SYRIZA. And as long as you're blinded by such an idealism, you can't even respond to the basic needs of society. As far as Article 13 is concerned, you are talking about a clientele, a party army that is rousphetological, whatever you want. "Where we were owed, they took the ox," Minister. Answer me. Twenty years of successors of the SAEP, why have they not been recruited for twenty years? There is also the Greek word "I'm sorry". Will you apologise to the workers? Here, let us say that there is this particular case, indeed, of the IGC of eleven workers. This is a very special case. The Minister has talked about this. Indeed, their case is related to judicial decisions. This is not the time to stand longer. Article 14 gives the possibility of adjusting dues. Here, again, it shows the political inability of the previous governments. They're not capable of splitting two donkeys hay. With Law No.4316/2014, article 80, under the responsibility of the then Ministers for the Interior and Economic Affairs, it has been attempted - ultimately not efficiently, as in practice - to regulate debts of the JHA, including the JHA, which is currently in front of a debt of ECU 107 million. I don't have time to stand in detail all the way. It is an issue that we are discussing both with the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Finance. I hope, Minister, if not today, at least within the days and in the next bill, that we can regulate this. A second issue, which we may be able to see on the basis of the financing of JHA, is to receive funding at 100% of the amount for projects in the public interest. Such a project is the replacement and expansion of the water supply network in Heraklion Crete, one of the five largest cities in Greece which currently has no drinking water. It is also a sign of the inability of previous governments. Again and here I expect to hear, like the rest of Heraklion, an apology from the parties that managed the fate of this place in the past decades. In any case, I think that the amendment that gives 100% of the financing of these projects should come to the next bills. In conclusion, Mr President, we are debating and enacting a number of measures which facilitate the lives of the citizens. We are solving time-consuming problems, we are pursuing - and it is in this direction - the rationalisation of the local government bodies. We consider all these measures necessary to restructure local government as a whole. In my opinion, the express and clear wording of today's draft law on non-profit-making of the JHA is the best guarantee for these interventions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u322	Mr. Syrigos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u323	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin by making some general remarks. The elements of the draft law, but also many other discussions within and outside Parliament, are two: the first is the imaginary exaggeration in the expression of political arguments by the opposition that betrays, in my view, a lack of temptation. If anyone did not know that there is a political debate, then he would think it is about sharing a travel tour around the world: Venezuela, North Korea, the Soviet Union, Poland, Turkey and so on. "The round of the world in eighty days" or "Friend Fog is civilized." Secondly, indifferent subjection as an element of exclusion of agreement or collapsing in commonly accepted things. For all it is good or bad, depending on who is doing it. For example, the exit into the market is mocked by market fans. But let them respond if this step is considered positive or negative. After these general remarks, as far as the draft legislation is concerned, I would like to say the following. This is an attempt to solve time-consuming problems. Secondly, the gradual transition towards the reform of self-government laws is taking place. At this point, Minister, in addressing you and the government and in the light of the revision of the Constitution, I believe that any reform that will be attempted should have as its basis an adequate definition of what we call a 'local case'. It is an element which, in previous reforms or reforms, I fear has been sidelined in the name of criteria by others that may have imposed some needs, such as economics. However, local government without a clear definition of what in our day-to-day concept of the local affairs will not succeed in any reform if it does not start there. The third is that the draft law, which we are discussing, is a product of dialogue and has received the positive response of the self-government bodies and others. That in itself - and I agree with those who have pointed it out - means nothing, that there is only the agreement. However, it is something that needs to be considered positive, because this is also the function of hearing the actors in our discussions. For example, I mention some articles and make some comments. Articles 17, 19, 25. In Article 25, I wonder whether the municipality who is invited to support should also be asked if he can do so. Articles 33 and 34. There, I see some calculations in miles. Let me remind you that there are also the nautical miles. Because we have an affair with islands, where employees are often forced from one island to the other, on the other side, who are not far too far from maritime miles, and they are next door and see it stay at night, they want not. In other words, he has some extra expenses. These are concerns that I am presenting to them, and I think that some time must be taken into account. Finally, I heard about seals. A lot of seals have fallen today. I would suggest that some of the seals that have been put on seasons should not be invoked because the seals refer to the DISCLOSURE which is a terrible thing and have led to a decline in many of the former state-owned political parties. You see, it also has its invincibility when it is exercised in an arrogant way in favour of the few and with the idea of permanentity. Sic transit gloria mundi. I conclude with one paradox: some incinerators of incinerators of live incinerators were disturbed, as I heard just now, by the incinerators of the dead. Change the title, Minister, of the bill. This is as a comment, because at the time the incinerators produced various products. Thank you very much for your tolerance, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u324	And we're for the use of time. Mr. Gregorakos has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u325	Mr President, Mr Gregorakos, does he take the floor for dentistry in the first place? You can repeat exactly how the process is. Because there's a mess.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u326	What do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u327	At some point Mr Lykoudis has said that the process will be completed today.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u328	Yeah, it's done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u329	So, after the special speakers in the first place, will we move on to the articles? How's it going to happen? Or it'll be total...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u330	It's unified.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u331	So are you giving the special speakers five minutes for the uniform placement, both at the outset and on the articles?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u332	But he spoke twenty-one minutes in protology. What are you talking about? What do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u333	Are you doing what I'm saying? What does it say "complete placement"? We started this morning for a two-day conversation. As has been said, we have, in any case, come to an end today. We haven't come up with how much time you'll give special speakers. For with twenty amendments and a hundred and fifty articles and abstracts, etc. to give five minutes for all this, I'm sorry, but that's a mock.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u334	We'll be here by morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u335	Mr. Gregorako, if you please, you can be placed five minutes. Besides, there's no limit to the least. But for most of the time...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u336	You have half the time of your protology. Because Mr. Gregorakos spoke in his protology twenty-one minute, he has this time left. So what do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u337	What are you talking about? Where does that come from? Is it based on the Rules of Procedure? A moment ago, we said with Mr Lykoudi that we as a JRC had no objection to the completion of the procedure today, but to give the time you would otherwise have given, if this debate were going for two days, namely on the principle and on the articles. That means time isn't five minutes. I'm so sorry. Are you telling us, "spray, wipe, are you done?" You loaded us here with a bunch of amendments, and within five minutes do we have to finish? What are these things?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u338	How much time do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u339	You will give us the time we were entitled to, otherwise, if the procedure would normally be for two days. But for two days it means 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u340	You'll have time to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u341	But I would like you to clarify that in the first place. We're not going to the blind, not to the dark.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u342	Mr President, may I take the floor for a clarification so that there is no anxiety?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u343	Anxiety? Who?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u344	Colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u345	Do you see any anxiety? Here, Mr. Voridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u346	What my colleague has pointed out is correct. The original idea, Mr President, was this: that we will have two meetings. We said to shorten. Right. It is simply because the special speakers, the rapporteurs, were organised for two meetings, instead of a second - let me say it - that what I propose is that you give the seconds extended in a comfortable manner.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u347	All right, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u348	Okay?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u349	In any case, it was the theology, if you see the times you used.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u350	Now we won't agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u351	Please. Mr. Gregoraco, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u352	Mr President, I will begin a specific inquiry in Parliament at the end. There is the Conference of Presidents which is planning Parliament's work, and we are also the Members from below who are planning their lives, their political lives, their social life, their family life, their speech schedules, how they will speak and, of course, always in a context that there will be five - ten amendments, not a hundred amendments. Secondly, I have pointed out that a specific President is taking over and starting every morning the procedure for'slapping' Parliament. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Can I speak? It's your truth to tell you. You'll tell her. Then why should the Conference of Presidents, Mr President, which you were not here this morning and I would ask you very much to listen to me when each time the Government concerned has the right to change the agenda if you put it to the vote, such as Mr Kaklamanis did this morning, and Mr Kaklamanis continues to do so? You are putting him in a position to settle Parliament's procedure. It has no right, Mr President, for the President-in-Office to do Parliament's work as he thinks. Parliament's procedure under the Rules of Procedure shall be determined by the Conference of Presidents. Let's go down. We have spoken and heard many colleagues criticize me for what I said this morning. Yeah, let's talk. Let's talk, Minister. I will not say about your statements, which I shall be tabling. What did Mr Tsipras say about the success of the New Democracy and PASOK, namely Samaras and Venizelos? I'll testify to you. Let's see, in other words, whether we're repeating as a story: "Comrades and comrades, if we let them, will continue the same policy. Her work hasn't been completed yet. The infamous exit into the market has been dispersed within hours. The propaganda for exiting the memorandum or for the end of the crisis will be able to survive in the elections so that they can immediately impose their own Memorandum and a new Memorandum." That was in April 2014: "We are a debt colony and we are going to a German banana." That's what he said. I'm filing it here. You know that anyway. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Leonidas Gregorakos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Mr Skourletis, the Minister, asked the Commission the day before yesterday - and he did not mention his prototype - to tell us how many officials you have in the Ministry of the Interior. If you know how many Greek employees, Mr. Skourletis, I've asked you. You have made a committee. If it's true, you've made a committee to know how many employees Greece has two and a half years later. So I will tell you, to help you, a question by Mrs Chryssovelonis on 13 November 2013, the answer by Mr Mitsotakis. I'll testify everything. On 31-12-2009, there were eight hundred seventy - five thousand nine hundred ninety - seven employees. Do you know how many people are around today? No, you don't. The truth of Mr. Ragosi was eight hundred sixty - five thousand - two employees.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u353	Just the Ministry of Interior?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u354	No, the Greek employees. He'll tell us about the interior department. I'm not talking about the Interior Ministry. So, let me tell you who threw the country out. The country was thrown by the ones, who were recruiting at 5 years 2004-2009. So are you. Here I put it: 'Octs of sixty-five thousand blue hikes with Vula Pavlopoulou'. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Leonidas Gregorakos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Mr Mitsotakis replied to Mrs Chrysosvelloni - I will give you the answer - that they were, indeed, done. Here we are, then, answering Mr. Mitsotakis and saying: The number of regular civil servants on 31-12-2009 was six hundred and ninety-two thousand, while eighty-three thousand are counted on non-permanent staff." That's the truth. So you want us to get back to the million and get Greece out? We'll do it if you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u355	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u356	Wait. We have more. We hear these days about Mr. Georgios and on this you have created a philosophy that has worked, a myth that has worked. I remember well Mr Kammenos, who spoke about a gang of Simitis, GOLDMAN SACHS, armaments, and I tell you to help you out for the Committee of Inquiry into Medicines in Parliament that in 2003 public health expenditure was EUR 8.7 billion. Pharmaceutical expenditure was EUR 2.1 billion. I'll testify to that, too. It was therefore for health and the medicine EUR 10.9 billion. 2009 - not to tell you now about 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009 - health expenditure was EUR 16.11 billion, pharmaceutical costs EUR 5.28 billion. A reminder to this House and to all of you who have the myth. Mr. Georgiou was recruited in July 2010. We in the Memorandum had gone in May 2010. I testify to that, too. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Leonidas Gregorakos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So will you tell us how many employees we have in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u357	Six hundred fifty thousand. She's answered by Mrs. Gerovalis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u358	I don't know. This is where I ask you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u359	In Parliament, it has been said
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u360	Do I know what your ministers are answering? I don't know. I want your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u361	The Ministry responsible is the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u362	Do you know how many employees the municipalities have?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u363	The number, which has been filed here, is what I told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u364	You in the municipalities know?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u365	Sure, I know.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u366	How many do you have in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u367	So ask the question and they will explain it to you in detail.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u368	I asked you as a Member. Very good. I'll do it. I thought you knew. You don't know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u369	In any case, don't tell us how many the New Democracy had. Let's go down.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u370	It matters. The President of the Republic today is of some importance. We said we'd criticize them all. So the crisis that the OTAs are going through today is in a marginal state. And now you come with this bill to share some crumbs to go back to the 2005 process, because that's when we started again to increase the deficits of the municipalities, to make our recruitments, and in the end not know how personal we have. Finally, you want to keep your fingernails and teeth on and cause a great deal of damage in the country. You have not realised that the comparative advantage of local government is the confidence that, to some extent, people still show it to local government. We must not, therefore, with these heaviest news here today and all that we have heard, lose confidence in local government. We as PASOK were lucky to have reforms in local government, and we believe that the heart and vision of local government must not have any great hand in the central state.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u371	Come on, Mr. Gregoraco.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u372	I shall conclude, Mr President. We want a decentralised administration that manages to transform this organised local government system into reality. I, as a Member of a Central Left Party, believe that we are still in the same position and wish to do so today. We don't want to have a client state, a hook system. We need to see what we will do with the state, a functioning state, which will be adapted to the country's age and needs. I, therefore, believe that the policy that you want to implement through this bill today is giving rise to stateism. They take the money from retired people and start and give some benefits policy to some people. Tell me a Greek citizen who doesn't need 50 or 100 euros. The point is that we are against subsidised policy. We don't believe in benefits.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u373	Finish, Mr. Gregoraco.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u374	I shall conclude, Mr President. I therefore believe that you will not be given the opportunity, as the Minister has said, to discuss the 'Calikarat' again, so that you can dismantle the 'Calikarat'. I believe that you are facing the institution of local government - and I am ending - as a tool for supporting future municipal elections and possibly parliamentary elections. This is the main substance of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u375	So do we. Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u376	Ladies and gentlemen, from the debate and in the Committees and today, a key conclusion is that the trunk of the draft law is the first part, which concerns the arrangements for modernising the institutional framework for the organisation and operation of municipal water and sewerage operations, where the European Water Directive is now being guided by water supply and irrigation in the big capital, putting the people before municipal companies, in addition to being given more fees. The second part, which is the second part of the draft law, is the European Territorial Cooperation Groups, as demanded by the large capital and the European Union, which starts with the Lisbon Treaty on the policy of cohesion of the European Union and which aim at how business groups, in cooperation with the regions, will best manage the European programmes. On these two issues, which constitute the body of the draft law, the rest of the parties for the tampering, for the core of this bill, said almost nothing. Because the Minister says and says again, for example, about the PPC, that this is almost as a revolutionary innovation, we caused him to give some clarification of these things: Firstly, it should be clarified for movements over 50 kilometres if they concern the interior of the country. Because it is quite different to the status of travel abroad and their corresponding stay, diet, travel and compensation. Secondly, should it not be clarified whether the amount of EUR 50 includes travel costs? For so far the cost of moving is borne by the employer and is not included in the offshore allowance. It should also be clarified that the provision in question does not actually show a remuneration of the worker for his off-site work, as well as that in any case the amount paid for off-site work should include, if included, complete nutrition, accommodation at the hotel and public transport. With regard to Article 97 in relation to personal protective equipment, Minister, you should be aware that both the Communist Party of Greece and the class trade union movement had a consistent demand that these should be attributed to workers working in such difficult conditions. There is one responsibility here because it has not been given in previous years. You were two and a half years in government power. Why didn't you give it to me? There is, first of all, this issue. We will not object to workers taking these issues, even in financial terms. Let us make it clear, however, that even in this way, the question of the safety of workers is not solved definitively. It has been said by a member of the JRC - we have said so many times - that, with unconscious wastewater, with women working behind wastewater treatment, with dead, with accidents at work, this problem cannot be resolved. Of course, we will also be voting in favour of the personal protection instruments and for one more reason, because there has been this addition to the legislative improvement, which includes both levels of local government, of course not all specialties. Legislative improvement is proof of what you have insisted on and said, that there is no such thing as the inclusion of all OTAs, that is, the second degree of local government, and then the legislative improvement. In Article 98 for the benefit of dangerous and unhealthy work we shall vote'residents'. We would vote against it at first. However, legislative intervention, which includes the first and second degrees, adds some specialties, although it removes the welders. I don't know if you're joining the irons. We need a clarification here. We could vote 'yes', but the question of the escalation of the allowance arises. In our view, this logic of escalation, that is to say, that a job is harmful or not harmful according to escalation as provided for in this provision, is not correct. Does the escalation, in other words, assess the damage caused by the human organism in the final analysis? That is why we are voting 'at present'. As regards the regulation on musicians, because you keep saying it - you have said it today to all the committees too, as if you were doing any great achievements on this issue - what do you give them? A EUR 50 allowance, and even mixed. That's what you give them. That's a mockery. We will, of course, vote in favour of the regulation, but in any case, do not make us sick and tell us that this particular provision is a revolutionary one.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u377	And yet!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u378	Yes, but there are other proposals that have been made by the institutions - they have not all agreed - such as those concerning the hours of editors. It is defined as a maximum of 30 hours of teaching for music teachers a week. Employees consider this limit to be the full time limit. Do you agree with that? Give us a clarification. There are also such decisions from the Court of Appeal of Thessaloniki and the Administrative Court of Athens. It is reasonable, therefore, to demand that workers apply the rules laid down in Article 103 to artistic teaching staff. For the civic register we say'residents', because of course the development of technology and information makes a significant contribution to simplifying and curtailing the versions of acts and certificates in the Ottawa - and not just - but who guarantees that personal data are not at risk at a time when democratic rights are being violated? SYRIZA? Is SYRIZA the only guarantee? But this is where social, labour, democratic rights are being violated every day in the places of work, in all places. For the European Territorial Cooperation we are voting against all the articles. We are also voting against the provision for incineration centres of the dead. It is one by which you hand over incineration centres to private individuals. That's the point. Of course, the last two articles concerning the transfer of the special account to the police and detention department for the name of the police officer to the police officer and the utility officer to lieutenant (b) say 'no'. We have explained to the committees. Let's not get far. In relation to Amendment No 1106 on the amendment - supplementing the provisions of forestry legislation, in relation to the provision of Law 998/79, we say 'no'. It implements and specialises provisions of laws that the JRC had voted against and amended for the third time in the last seven months Article 47B. In the amendments to Law 3208/2003 we say'residences'. In the amendment of No.3889/2010 we say 'no'. In Law 4423/2016 we say "residents", as well as in the addition to paragraph 23 of Article 52 of Law 4280/2014 we say "no". But let me say here here that especially the addition to paragraph 23 of No 4280 which we call 'no', clearly photographs the Greek, so that we can be honest with it. Because the act of designation is manifestly illegal and there is a need for legislative aid against the objections made against it. These amendments, therefore, those that I mentioned for the wooded fields and for concessions, are a road to the intensity of the commercialisation of the land. In Amendment No 1117 concerning the setting-up of the committee by members of the AACC for the recognition of postgraduate qualifications, we say 'yes'. In Amendment No 1118/32, which concerns the organisation of the Office Commissioner in the European Commission, we say 'no'. In Amendment 1119/33 on the extension of the deadline laid down in Article 35 of Law 4430/2016 we say 'no'. In Amendment No 1120/34, which amends provisions of the Code of Installation of Public Policies and Administrative Officers, we say 'yes'. In Amendment 1125/36, which deals with the Staff Regulations register, we say 'yes'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u379	It also has a vote, Mr President. You'll see it in the vote, Mr. Synergy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u380	Of course, let us talk about the vote. In Amendment No 1139/45, we call'residents', and it concerns the payroll of staff hired by a fixed-term contract for cleaning services. We have to say this here. Do payroll need to be guaranteed? Sure. Where? What if the rewards aren't enough? Then what? From other counties' revenues. Because that is what this amendment stipulates. If they don't exist, what's the ending? The direct consequence will be to reduce the number of staff required, so bad and incomplete provision of services, so in front of us the subject of the contractors. Regarding the identities, Mr Toska's amendment of 1144, let us say 'no' and be sharp about this particular amendment. The issue of the elements which appear on citizens' identities is a very serious issue. The selection criteria are relevant to important aspects of public administration, often with a strong socio-political dimension. Let us remember the subject of religious representation or non-religion. It concerns, above all, the protection of citizens' personal data. Therefore, the competence in this matter is in no way meant to be transferred from Parliament to the Minister in question. The argument in the explanatory statement is that technological developments, provisions for citizens' services and the requirements of international cooperation in the area of citizens' freedom of movement are allegedly imposed on the administration of legislative flexibility rather than on the parliamentary process every time. This is a good argument, a provocative and hypocritical, in our view. How often does the need for data to be added to the identities of the people responsible cannot wait for the parliamentary procedure? Leave hypocrisy, then, and say clearly that you want your hands solved to make dangerous additions to the direction of strengthening the world’s fresco. Finally, with regard to Amendment No 1146/51, on the financing of the parties and the previous Amendments Nos 4472/2017 and No 3024/2002, all of this was done in the name of transparency. In our view, there is again an economic strangulation and an obstacle to political action by parties such as the JRC, which is financially based on the backwardness of the populace. You are even trying to freckle people from the poor strata who either give assistance as members or contribute to our parties, friends and followers. The amendment seeks to postpone the application of the new regulations of Law 4472/2017 from 1-1-2018. The application of the earlier regulations, which the amendment seeks, does not at least address the issues we have raised in relation to the framework for the financing of the parties. We are therefore voting against this amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u381	Finish, Mr. Synchronous.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u382	I shall conclude, Mr President. As far as Amendment No 1147/52 is concerned, we will say that these are blocks. This is a milestone, as it concerns another two years of renewal. I would remind you that in February 2017 the JRC had brought an amendment to that effect, which the government proposed at the time - and continues to insist on it - the permanentisation of both seasonal and five-year-old obligations. As far as the other amendments are concerned, because I do not have time and pressure, Mr President, despite the fact that there are many amendments, we will then see them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u383	No, not at all, Mr. Syncis. We've exhausted all the procedures. I'm not pushing you at all. When the Lacons don't share "the laptop of philosophene", why should the Cretans do it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u384	Mr President, do not make any comments now, because this is a very big bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u385	All right, all right, Mr. Synchronous.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u386	It was going to be two meetings in two days and you're going to pack it up now in a few hours.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u387	All right, Mr. Covenant. Take it as a failed attempt of humor. Mr. Saridis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u388	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, you yelled at us that we don't understand what we're reading. I ask you directly, where is it written in this bill that the FTL workers are entitled to them, regardless of the type of their employment contract? What answer do you give to all those who wonder how it is possible for the EEAS to share millions as profits to its shareholders, at the same time that JHA workers are treated wagely as inferior to their members of the EEAS and of the EEAS? What answer do you give to us, Mr Minister, that is, in the Central Association rather than in the New Democracy and the PASOK, for the compensation of anti-democrats and for the cover of the counter-region's traffic routes? Ladies and gentlemen of the government majority, you are consciously choosing to respond only to what the other political parties testify to you, what is oldest than the Central Association in this Chamber. It is your central political decision to respond only to what previous speakers tell you. You find easy opponents there because their things have already been judged by the citizens. You see to it that we avoid our own remarks that we have neither signed nor operated public money nor appointed anyone in public. But we never served interests. I would therefore ask you to distinguish your positions on Commentation. We have a multi-party parliament, you know. If you don't understand, there are more parties in this House. You cannot put in one word all those who were present in this Chamber when in August 2015 you all signed together the largest of the memoranda that has ever signed Greek government. We are talking about the memorandum of SYRIZA's training costs on his government fraud. Ladies and gentlemen, when you are talking about opposition now, make sure you are sure that before you join your comments, you will have listened to us first. You cannot smuggle the Centro Association with the other parties who have either inspired and implemented memos, or have just signed them. The Centro Association cannot continue to tolerate general references to the positions of counter-population. If you want to help - as, after all, the place needs it - but you also have the moral obligation - to make the words in that country make sense again, then you will do well to be careful and not to present the Central Association as part of a single multi-party opposition policy. You know, the opposition we're trying to do with conscientiousness every day is not inexpensive. Having said this, I am going to comment on the rain of the amendments which have been hit again in this Chamber. What kind of rain? It was hail, I could say. I will start with the parliamentary amendments, and I will say that the Central Association will support Amendment 1129/40 for the extension of the 'THESIS' programme, Amendment 1130/41 for the continuation of the possibility of granting municipalities from the 'Axia' programme, Amendment 1142/47, which concerns the coverage of camping costs for children from regions of the region and Amendment 1143/48 for the financial donations for the South Aegean region, although it is true that we are also collecting money from poor regions - we should pay attention to this - such as the region of Epirus and the Peloponnese Region. We shall now proceed to the ministerial amendments. With regard to Amendment No 1106 entitled 'Amendment to supplement the provisions of forestry legislation', I would like to comment very carefully on the Minister's efforts to complete this valuable development tool, namely the integration of forest maps, with a view to supporting, as we can do, our country at last, with a view to obtaining forest maps. We will continue to support this effort. The same applies to Amendment No 1140. The same applies to Amendment No 1148 of the same Ministry. Amendment No 1117 amending the relevant provision for the setting up of a committee by members of the AACC to consider objections to decisions, to recognise the relevance of postgraduate studies, we would say that it is time, perhaps because you know what to expect from the upcoming posts and appointments of directors and heads of government. We will support it because we are in favour of the evaluation of civil servants in transparent and clear ways, which can be guaranteed by the AACC institution. We will also support Amendment No 1131 which solves, at the last minute, real problems for our fellow citizens. You are doing so late, having heard, of course, our objections to the committees first. But it's okay, we'll support it. Subsidiary staff of social care units, the amendment of Article 68 of Law 4430, the extension of the ‘Help at home’ programme, the amendment of paragraph 22 of Article 9 of Law 4052/2012, and finally the transfer of SNEs, are issues that you obviously considered to be insignificant and which you can take care of with an amendment. Even with that, we're on a right path. But we cannot talk about quality, you know, of legislative work in this way. Also, on the issue of five - year - old firefighters, to ball it, the people who we all need to get out on the streets had to get out. That is how you bring us at the last minute, in the middle of the summer, when you need these people, Amendment No 1147, which we will support. Besides, which reasonable person would say no. In Amendment No 1119 by Mrs Antonopoulou, in which we also recognise sincere and plausible efforts by the Minister, in which you decide to extend the deadline laid down in Article 35 of Law 4430, we are following with interest and we do not find the reason not to vote on it, namely not to oppose another extension. What is provided for in Amendment No 1120 on the status codes of civil servants and municipal officials, as well as the provisions supplemented by Amendment No 1125 in Article 68 of Law No.4369 on the famous National Register of National Civil Service Officers, are emblematic, clipping, but unfortunately for you, they are also necessary in order for your legislative initiatives to be consistent. I shall therefore close my comment and the other amendments with Amendment No 1139. How many amendments have been tabled for cleanliness workers? What should be done to understand that red gloves are already numb for you. You're making fun of these people. As long as you deal with them with amendments, they will never end. We will come here, legislate extensions, amendments. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Amendments Nos 1144 and 1145 will be supported, and Amendment No 1146 will not be supported.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u389	We will follow all this with interest in the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u390	Yeah, but I'm not running out of time yet. You like me, Mr President. You are cutting me off on the most important amendment. With Amendment No 1146, which invokes the need to regulate issues relating to the legislative framework governing the financing of the parties, you are sending the wrong signal to the citizens, when on this issue which has so much affected Greek society, you are legislating with summer late night amendments. The amount of amendments, the issues that cover and the inability to plan anything, indicate the size of the deficiency. You cannot take this country out of the deadlock on your own. All you can do, and that's what you do, is manage some of the effects of this dead end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u391	Thank you, too. Mr. Vorides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u392	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it has been re-engendered by the government - at least in terms of the position of Officer Opposition - the well-known argument: 'You are neo-liberal, so you are anti-social. In fact, you do not want to be deprived of any philosophical measures and philosophical policies." To agree between us on a few basic things. When you tax people with an income of 600 euros, Mr President, is this a pluralist policy? When you cut pensions to 1,000 euros, is politics polite? When you increase VAT on all kinds...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u393	Does that include the bill?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u394	If you allow me to argue, I will clarify the direct and close link between this argument and the bill. The Minister has heard it. But it's a pleasure to hear it now, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u395	Let's inspire her.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u396	So, is this philosophical politics? And I'm going now: Since you're doing all this, is it prologue to recruit unnecessarily, who don't serve the public, who, however, have a cost to the taxpayer?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u397	Who says that?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u398	It's the organogram. The organogram says so, because they're the ones who put them in personal positions. And you come along and say that what we need is scientists in the municipalities. Did you get scientists? You got mechanics? Do these hires today? Of course not. The argument is: “What should we do? These are loose ends and we settle them.' When's the time outburst? 1998, as I heard? 2011? And who told you that the need to recruit the municipalities is this today? The Minister said: 'Oh, you want the municipalities to be subordinated'. Two minutes. We want the municipalities right-handed, which means what? A proper assessment of their functioning, a proper assessment of their structures, a specific programming direction, so that the outcome to the citizens can be measurable and, of course, an evaluation of the staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u399	I think we are talking about Denmark.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u400	Oh, that's Denmark. And it is not good to bring Denmark to Greece, because Denmark is not doing well and Greece is doing well. So that's the conversation. I understand that the Minister wants us to discuss the great, the conflict of freedom and equality. That's an interesting conversation. But now, let us say what we are talking about here, why don't we talk about the big ones, we're talking about the specific ones? For example, you say: 'You want the privatization of cleaning services in the municipalities'. That's what he says.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u401	Where does he say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u402	I'll tell you what I'm saying. I say that the law itself that regulates the operation, this possibility and the ability to leave it to the mayors. But let's get to it. However, I certainly am not saying that a matter of public authority is lost if a particular agency is assigned to make it a private person and it can be judged that he makes it better or makes it cheaper. And the question is now: Are you more philosophical or I? Why am I looking? I look at the citizen, and if he gets good and cheap services, in any way. You start and say, "Oh, I do not want this to be provided in a specific way by the municipality, and I do not care what services the municipality receives." Who's more philosophical than both of us here now? So we've assessed them? You have an ideological starting point, and I have a pragmatic, realistic starting point. You say: 'The contractor will provide bad services'. I say: "In relation to what will you compare this with? Have you evaluated the structures for the services they provide, to see they provide better services?’ This debate too could be opened up for too many things, because the state really has to provide these services, in this case the Ottawas. But no one tells us the way in which they should be provided. This is the power of the legislator and, in this case, the choice of self-government. So let's land. Apart from that, this bill did more. Increase red tape. You have again added to the real estate transfer contracts, with a penalty of nullity, the property fee. You are bored with very controversial results, with severe ratification. So what? The non-transfer of real estate, the nullity of contracts. Heavy sanction! You added signatures to ministerial decisions. You have created a new special secretariat and a new Directorate-General. So what still does this bill is to increase bureaucracy. You are accusing us because we are indeed saying that we will maintain the rule of 'one to five'. Why maintain the 'one to five' rule and why are we strict about it? Because we really want the taxpayers' money to catch a place. And now I ask here: is it or is it not anti-social and anti-popular taxation along with insurance contributions reaching 80%? Are we okay with this? Take a clean seat. Say you're okay with this, so you can make the recruitments you're doing here. Say that and we'll see from there and beyond what is polish and what is anti-social policy. We'll clarify it. I come to a more specific subject, to see that what we think is right, we will support it. I come to Article 99, which deals with the issue of municipal police officers and the consequences of the removal of mobility. There is one particular issue here which I would like to raise in connection with the so-called 'personal difference'. In my opinion, it remains unclear whether this personal difference is calculated in relation to the travel operator or in relation to the host entity. In a very simple way - to understand what I am saying - there was already a difference that is now resolved, given this provision, but there is a decision of the Court of Auditors - namely Section I of the Court of Auditors' Section 122/2015 - which says that the personal difference must be calculated in the host entity. Why is that? In fact, otherwise, we would create different levels of workers within the same body with the same work experience, with the same working time. We would therefore have people who work side by side and take different money with exactly the same standard qualifications and the same service time. This is because it has an internal inequality, the logic adopted by the Court of Auditors is to be the host institution. I'll put it to you to see. So what remains of our disagreement here is not that we are bad and do not want for some strange, twisted reason for people to find a job - but in our minds what the people who are hired do every time and whether they provide what they need and what the citizens need - not of course that we have any other second twist and we refuse to take any money. But the truth is that we are thinking a lot about people in the private sector, people who are working in the private sector. And here, let me say something, so we can get out of class. I hear the argument of class, that we supposedly defend alpha here, and others are defending beta. There may be such a thing, but not, in the sense of classics, that of class stratification, at least as described in Marxist terms. This is where we have another type of class. Those who work in a protected working environment, which is the public and which actually enjoy privileged relations with that government and with that power, and others who may be in any social stratification and who do not literally have the slightest protection and care. This is the classics that are formed, this is the collision that is being formed and this is the collision that needs to be lifted.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u403	In order to remove the dispute, Greece was to become the 'Denmark of the South'. We're closing up with Mr. Pratsol.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u404	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to bother you very much because we are already tired. I shall reply to the last two issues Mr Vorides has raised, concerning contractors, or whether the workers are doing their job, etc. For all things in life there are experiences. And the experience we have not only of us, but also of the workers who worked with contractors in the hospitals, is painful, because they were workers of 400 euros and many times without insurance rights, and their work was much more than they had. The second is about the ETUC, because it is coming back and again as a ground for nullity. Because I myself have lived through this in my pocket in relation to the real square meters of both shops and houses in a municipality - because other things are real and others are said - I think this is a means of crossing these things, which will also lead to the truth. Today, however, I think that an important work is being done at committee level, but also at plenary level, beyond some very far-reaching ones. And what did it look like? It seemed that here most of the Dissident's speeches were on other issues. This has two sides: One is that they have nothing to say about this bill, so it is very good and they have nothing to do with it. We need to find something else to do our counterpopulation. The second aspect, I would say, is the embarrassment, the anguish that every time a new account falls apart from life itself. So the problem is not how they see a bill, but how to make a reliable account. It's all right, though. I believe that the people see this, that the workers in the Ottawa are seen by the Ottomans. And they see who really stand on their problems and who want to give a solution to these chronological problems, because they heard too much about "we have to bring the law back" or "we have to bring back the "KARICA" as it was". I think that anyone who has passed through local government has a clear view of this issue, whether KALIKRATS really was a tool to solve the problems or a tool that I would say many times - it was the long hand of the memorials within the local government that other things had arranged rather than issues of local government itself to a very large extent. But I would like to stand on something else. There was something that really underestimated many times and the democratic debate in Parliament, something about people in this government. As much as that is said, however, this government does not have a number of judiciaries like the Shiite Government. And that should be put right in their minds by some who resort to such designations. I say that to get this over with. In fact, now they've all been out on the pulco and it seems who they are and how they've been acting all these years. And, of course, here is the crazy one: Greece has suddenly - in the last two years - created, suddenly Greece went bankrupt, suddenly like a lost Atlantis. Some have ruled this country, some with their measures have led this country to this bankruptcy, which is undeniable. One cannot question today that the country did not go bankrupt in 2010. Will you finally take the responsibility to go out into the world and say, "Yes, with our own responsibilities, with our own mistakes..." - deliberately or otherwise - "we led the country into this bankruptcy"?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u405	Say names.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u406	So that's the question. And here's Rhodes, really, going out and telling these great truths. Everything else is a cheap populism, it's a cheap exorcism of these same things that you did and today you want to forget. But they don't forget. People remember and have identified some political formations with concrete actions and specific issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u407	Say names.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u408	I didn't interrupt anyone, Mr. Gregoraco. I understand your anxiety and your embarrassment. I am proud to have been rapporteur in this multi-project. I am proud not as a member of the SYRIZA, but as a self-government who has been for thirty-five years - I continue to be self-government - because this bill actually clears up the landscape, solves a number of problems, and it is, as we have said, the bridge for the revision of the 'KALIKRATI' and our new democratic, I would say, reconstruction of the local area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u409	Thank you, Mr. Pratsol. We will give the floor to Mr Kefaliannis, a Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy, who has asked to speak for a moment and will be closed by the Minister. Here, Mr. Kefaliannis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u410	Thank you, Mr President. I will only use a minute of my dentistry, because there was a special reference made by my colleague, Mrs Stuboulis, about a report I made, that in the first half of 2015, they were immediately and indirectly lost to the Greek economy around EUR 100 billion. Indeed, this report also caused the reaction of the Minister, Mr Skourletis, who described this number as excessive. I would like to stress to both of the following: The reference to the EUR 100 billion, Minister, Mrs Stuboulis, is of course missing - it is not our own mention, it is not a mention of the New Democracy. It is a report that Mr Regling made and, on 29 June 2017, when he visited our country, who said in particular that the Central Greek Bank may have made public the number of eighty-three billion euros and may be a little less, it may be a little more, but I think 100 billion is a round number, which is probably the right one. I'll put it in the Minutes for there to be. Mr. Regling last day, that is on June 28, 2017, had met at the Maximos Mansion with the Prime Minister, Mr. Tsipras, and even together they said that the common goal is to move from now on to the market, etc. So it does not become the same man who, according to the Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras, is responsible - hand - hand in hand, even agree to go out on the markets - the same man the next day, when he refers to the 100 billion lost by the Greek economy directly and indirectly in the first half of 2015, to be irresponsible. So decide whether he's in charge or Mr. Reggling is irresponsible. It can't be the same man, by one day, being irresponsible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u411	Thank you, Mr. Kefaliannis. Minister, you have the floor to close the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u412	Thank you, Mr President. Let me start from the last one, since the off-legislative report will only be on it. Mr. Kefaliannis, this subordinate number you mentioned first of all. When I say you, not you personally, the New Democracy. Very soon, Mr. Reggling has arrived. Repeatedly your officials - your Chief may have said it both within the Hall and outside the Chamber - have spoken of this amount. The fact, of course, that Mr. Reggling says so, I don't know if he gives him any greater weight. In any case, Mr Regling has said other things and he has spoken about the exit from yesterday that you have a different assessment than Mr Regling. Well, it's an opinion. Evaluate her. In any case, all this approach, the literature of the 100 billion, is something that has nothing to do with reality. Anyone understands that either knows or does not know from financial point of view.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u413	So let's consider it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u414	From there on, I am sincerely glad that there have been statements from the JRC as well. It has finally been made clear that some regulations, which are ultimately positive, will be voted on. This has had to go through this whole process. It's good that it's clear before the critical moment and I wish we could have other samples of this kind. Hold the strategic analysis...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u415	You did the law school. Say that, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u416	Okay. Even though you know that the concept of TAA includes both grades, I am pleased that you recognize the correctness of these provisions. It's a good start. I wish there were more to follow. Honestly, I wish. I do not want to dwell at all on what Mr Gregorakos said about the number of civil servants. You remember, Mr. Gregorako, that this number has never reached one million. One million civil servants were the propaganda that your friends big-time journalists did on the various telepaths to convince the Greek people that we have an extremely large public sector in terms of its number and to justify what happened later. And you know it very well. So what more do you want to remake this reheated food, bring it over here about one million employees? It is well known that the number of employees in the semi-working sector - much more now, but also before - was about average. It has now fallen below the corresponding European average for workers. The question is the quality of the services provided. And up there honestly you have nothing to say, as former rulers, because you have never really been really interested in services to the citizen. You were interested in the creation of party armies, you were interested in urban assignments, which you are even discovering where you and the New Democracy do not exist. It came to my mind, based on my previous capacity, the number of people that Constantine Mitsotakis had hired in PPC the first year that New Democracy was in the government. Nine thousand - if I'm not mistaken - were only hired to PPC at that time. Nine thousand recruits had been made to launch the number.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u417	Do you remember the nine thousand?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u418	I remember that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u419	But I'm not allowed to remember...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u420	Please don't interrupt too much. Minister, continue to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u421	In any case, these are well-known and are specific examples of how you understand the functioning of the public sector. And maybe those were the fewer, the smaller ones. The lowest burden was unorthodox assignments. The biggest burden was the misery, remulsions, sea-lovings, overcoats, armaments party, the supply party, all of which involve a great political responsibility, the political persons who were in your previous conference a few days ago, the ones you called on the reunion to recommend the Democratic Union, the area of the centre-left. You are trying to do this while you remain committed to these people and without a strategy for the great entrepreneurial events today.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u422	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u423	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u424	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to a few comments by Mr Voridis. I think that unsuccessfully, once again, he tried to tell us that some recruitments are coming here. There's no reference to hiring generalized. We are talking about very specific and necessary cases, which are imposed for reasons of moral order and the restoration of justice. And all cases, except one, of this Crete, are potential. We'll give it a chance. And this request has come from the municipalities themselves. I therefore think that what you are saying to you, to recognise, namely, the right to self-government to decide on its needs, you are undoing it with what you said a moment ago, when they come and ask for the restoration of certain injustices and the recruitment of these particular people, who were also employed in businesses, which these municipalities have succeeded. Of course, your current Chief has linked his name, life and state to the greatest counter-reformation in OTAs, the dissolution of Municipal Police. It was very appropriate what Mr Dannelis said. I'm borrowing it. Allow me, Mr. Dannelly. You know, it's too easy to tear things apart. Making is hard. You referred to Article 61, Mr Vorides, is what enables the municipalities to entrust the collection to individuals. I am referring to Article 61 of the Ragon law, not to the bill, which enables individuals to collect waste. But it does not say so in general and vaguely. It says so, after they have convinced us that they do not have the same resources for this project. That is why there have been too many decisions by the Court of Auditors - since you have been invoking it from time to time - which have not been approved by them, they have been rejected. However, your ideological obsession with market forces - in fact you have married this perception - wants this service to be carried out at the expense of the quality of the services provided, at the expense of the working conditions of workers, at a higher cost, on the basis of international experience, for citizens. But, however, you accept the 'all on its altar of privatization'. I want to ask you something. "Call the eye" to those owners who don't pay APAs? Why is this insistence that this certificate does not exist at the conclusion of contracts, even providing for their voidity, as it was until 2014? Why do you 'close the eye'? I don't get it. Well, that's ruffetti to a lot of people. Are your big owners some kind of social reference force? Why this thing? How's that? You were not at all convincing that asking for this certificate to be filed when contracts were concluded is an extra bureaucracy. Which way? So we are not, Mr Voridis, against the private sector. And you can't say it yourself. I do not remember if you joined the New Democracy when Mr Brutsi was Minister of Labour. Were you? You were. Wasn't he the one who legally dismantled the collective agreements? Within one day he had legally abolished the minimum wage. So are you interested in private workers? They speak for themselves the figures, the indicators of unemployment in your day, the closure of small and medium-sized enterprises, entrepreneurship, which in the end seems to be a concept for you, which you are thinking partly and limitedly. There are too many examples that you have shown that you are not interested in the backbone of Greek society, whose production base is indeed made up and made up of small and medium-sized enterprises, many times, even for the very costs of their operation. In the case of large firms and industrial enterprises, too. I am referring to energy costs. When you criticised the present government - I was the Minister of Energy - when the TECF was privatised, the tender that was cancelled, on the grounds that we were going to protect against an absurd regulation invoking the fees for gas use, you accused us of smuggling the programme for privatisation and, in any case, what kind of State that is. No, we were defending domestic production and business operating costs. You see that you have - I repeat - a very specific discriminatory approach to these issues. Finally, I want to say this. You made a reference to a decision by the Court of Auditors, which I informed you about, and about the personal difference. Those who have necessarily been made available or have gone to some agencies have lost this personal difference. So, now that at least those who at least allowed do not actually enter another speed, they are treated as already workers in the services that are coming. As far as the Municipal Police are concerned, there were no others. You had it broken up, so her reconversion predicts the restoration of this injustice. In other cases, again, this regulation does not lead to a different speed. Because they had lost the personal difference in this mid-term. Honestly, I'm trying to understand your reasoning, but either you weren't convincing or I couldn't understand him. I imagine, however, that your concern is honest, so that in some kinds of self-criticism, repentance for these people who have sent them to unemployment without their will, you have made them available, you have fired them at the moment, I imagine, at least to acknowledge your mistake and you care to restore this injustice. I imagine that that kind of thing was the motive of your intervention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u425	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The debate on the principle, articles, amendments and the whole draft law of the Ministry of the Interior is hereby concluded: ‘Agreements on the modernisation of the institutional framework for the organisation and operation of municipal waste water treatment companies (ICCs)’. - Arrangements relating to the organization, operation, financial and personnel of the O.T.A. - European Groupings for Territorial Cooperation - Citizens' Register and other provisions'. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u426	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u427	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u428	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u429	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u430	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u431	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u432	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u433	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u434	Consequently, the Legislative Decree of the Ministry of Interior: ‘Approvements for the modernisation of the institutional framework for the organisation and operation of municipal waste water treatment operations (PRC) - Arrangements relating to the organization, operation, financial and personnel of the O.T.A. - European Territorial Cooperation Groups - Citizens' Register and other provisions' has been accepted in principle by a majority. We are going to vote on the articles and they will be voted on separately. I have a proposal here. If the House agrees, we should go every dozens, that is to say we give the floor to the rapporteur of each party and put him in the first ten articles with 'Yes', 'No', 'Paris'. Do you agree or take it as usual? This procedure will be repeated a hundred and forty-three times together with the amendments. I say this in order to make it easier for both the services and the President-in-Office, but perhaps the House too. If you don't agree, that's fine.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u435	Mr President, I agree. Just an addition to do. Let us not say 'Yes' at all and just 'No'. The rest is 'Yes'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u436	There is also the 'Saints', though.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u437	Yes, and the 'Saints', but not the 'Yes'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u438	Mr Vorides, we will also say 'Yes' and 'No' and 'Paris'. As provided for, this will be expressed by each rapporteur for each article per dozen. Does the House agree with this proposal?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u439	The House therefore agreed. On Mr Voridis' proposal, the 'Yes' who will record it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u440	I take the view that the rest is considered 'Yes'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u441	Listen, it may in procedural terms appear easier, faster and the process should be facilitated, but the vote should be recorded. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u442	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u443	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u444	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u445	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u446	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u447	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u448	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u449	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u450	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u451	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u452	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u453	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u454	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u455	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u456	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u457	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u458	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u459	Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 3 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u460	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u461	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u462	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u463	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u464	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u465	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u466	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u467	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u468	Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 4 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u469	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u470	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u471	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u472	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u473	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u474	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u475	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u476	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u477	Article 4 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u478	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u479	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u480	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u481	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u482	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u483	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u484	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u485	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u486	Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u487	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u488	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u489	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u490	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u491	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u492	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u493	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u494	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u495	Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 7 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u496	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u497	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u498	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u499	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u500	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u501	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u502	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u503	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u504	Article 7 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Article 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u505	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u506	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u507	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u508	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u509	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u510	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u511	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u512	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u513	Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 9 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u514	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u515	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u516	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u517	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u518	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u519	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u520	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u521	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u522	Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u523	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u524	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u525	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u526	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u527	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u528	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u529	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u530	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u531	Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 11 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u532	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u533	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u534	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u535	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u536	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u537	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u538	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u539	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u540	Article 11 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u541	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u542	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u543	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u544	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u545	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u546	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u547	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u548	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u549	Article 12 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 13 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u550	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u551	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u552	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u553	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u554	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u555	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u556	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u557	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u558	Article 13 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 14 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u559	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u560	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u561	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u562	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u563	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u564	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u565	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u566	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u567	Article 14 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 15 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u568	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u569	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u570	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u571	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u572	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u573	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u574	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u575	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u576	Article 15 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 16 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u577	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u578	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u579	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u580	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u581	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u582	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u583	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u584	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u585	Article 16 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 17 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u586	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u587	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u588	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u589	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u590	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u591	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u592	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u593	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u594	Article 17 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 18 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u595	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u596	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u597	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u598	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u599	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u600	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u601	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u602	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u603	Article 18 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 19 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u604	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u605	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u606	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u607	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u608	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u609	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u610	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u611	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u612	Article 19 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 20 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u613	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u614	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u615	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u616	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u617	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u618	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u619	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u620	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u621	Article 20 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 21 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u622	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u623	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u624	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u625	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u626	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u627	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u628	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u629	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u630	Article 21 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 22 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u631	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u632	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u633	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u634	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u635	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u636	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u637	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u638	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u639	Article 22 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 23 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u640	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u641	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u642	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u643	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u644	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u645	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u646	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u647	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u648	Article 23 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 24 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u649	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u650	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u651	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u652	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u653	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u654	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u655	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u656	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u657	Article 24 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 25 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u658	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u659	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u660	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u661	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u662	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u663	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u664	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u665	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u666	Article 25 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 26 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u667	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u668	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u669	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u670	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u671	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u672	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u673	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u674	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u675	Article 26 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 27 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u676	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u677	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u678	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u679	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u680	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u681	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u682	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u683	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u684	Article 27 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 28 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u685	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u686	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u687	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u688	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u689	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u690	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u691	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u692	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u693	Article 28 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 29 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u694	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u695	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u696	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u697	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u698	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u699	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u700	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u701	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u702	Article 29 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 30 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u703	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u704	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u705	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u706	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u707	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u708	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u709	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u710	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u711	Article 30 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 31 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u712	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u713	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u714	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u715	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u716	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u717	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u718	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u719	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u720	Article 31 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 32 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u721	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u722	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u723	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u724	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u725	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u726	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u727	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u728	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u729	Article 32 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 33 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u730	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u731	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u732	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u733	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u734	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u735	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u736	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u737	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u738	Article 33 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 34 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u739	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u740	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u741	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u742	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u743	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u744	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u745	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u746	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u747	Article 34 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 35 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u748	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u749	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u750	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u751	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u752	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u753	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u754	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u755	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u756	Article 35 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 36 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u757	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u758	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u759	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u760	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u761	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u762	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u763	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u764	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u765	Article 36 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 37 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u766	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u767	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u768	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u769	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u770	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u771	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u772	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u773	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u774	Article 37 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 38 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u775	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u776	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u777	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u778	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u779	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u780	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u781	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u782	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u783	Article 38 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 39 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u784	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u785	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u786	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u787	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u788	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u789	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u790	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u791	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u792	Article 39 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 40 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u793	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u794	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u795	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u796	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u797	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u798	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u799	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u800	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u801	Article 40 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 41 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u802	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u803	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u804	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u805	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u806	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u807	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u808	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u809	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u810	Article 41 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 42 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u811	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u812	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u813	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u814	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u815	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u816	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u817	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u818	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u819	Article 42 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 43 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u820	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u821	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u822	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u823	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u824	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u825	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u826	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u827	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u828	Article 43 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 44 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u829	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u830	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u831	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u832	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u833	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u834	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u835	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u836	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u837	Article 44 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 45 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u838	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u839	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u840	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u841	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u842	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u843	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u844	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u845	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u846	Article 45 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 46 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u847	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u848	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u849	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u850	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u851	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u852	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u853	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u854	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u855	Article 46 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 47 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u856	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u857	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u858	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u859	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u860	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u861	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u862	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u863	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u864	Article 47 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 48 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u865	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u866	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u867	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u868	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u869	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u870	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u871	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u872	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u873	Article 48 was therefore unanimously accepted. Does this House accept Rule 49 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u874	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u875	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u876	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u877	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u878	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u879	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u880	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u881	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u882	Article 49 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 50 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u883	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u884	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u885	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u886	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u887	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u888	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u889	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u890	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u891	Article 50 has therefore been accepted as a majority. Will Rule 51 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u892	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u893	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u894	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u895	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u896	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u897	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u898	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u899	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u900	Article 51 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 52 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u901	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u902	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u903	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u904	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u905	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u906	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u907	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u908	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u909	Article 52 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 53 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u910	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u911	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u912	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u913	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u914	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u915	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u916	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u917	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u918	Article 53 has therefore been accepted as unanimously. Will Rule 54 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u919	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u920	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u921	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u922	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u923	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u924	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u925	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u926	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u927	Article 54 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 55 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u928	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u929	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u930	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u931	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u932	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u933	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u934	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u935	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u936	Article 55 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 56 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u937	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u938	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u939	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u940	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u941	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u942	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u943	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u944	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u945	Article 56 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 57 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u946	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u947	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u948	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u949	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u950	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u951	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u952	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u953	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u954	Article 57 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 58 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u955	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u956	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u957	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u958	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u959	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u960	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u961	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u962	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u963	Article 58 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 59 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u964	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u965	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u966	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u967	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u968	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u969	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u970	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u971	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u972	Article 59 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 60 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u973	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u974	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u975	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u976	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u977	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u978	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u979	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u980	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u981	Article 60 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 61 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u982	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u983	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u984	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u985	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u986	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u987	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u988	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u989	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u990	Article 61 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 62 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u991	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u992	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u993	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u994	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u995	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u996	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u997	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u998	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u999	Article 62 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 63 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1000	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1001	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1002	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1003	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1004	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1005	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1006	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1007	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1008	Article 63 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 64 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1009	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1010	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1011	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1012	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1013	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1014	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1015	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1016	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1017	Article 64 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 65 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1018	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1019	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1020	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1021	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1022	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1023	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1024	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1025	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1026	Article 65 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 66 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1027	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1028	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1029	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1030	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1031	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1032	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1033	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1034	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1035	Article 66 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 67 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1036	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1037	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1038	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1039	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1040	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1041	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1042	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1043	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1044	Article 67 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 68 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1045	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1046	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1047	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1048	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1049	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1050	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1051	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1052	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1053	Article 68 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 69 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1054	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1055	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1056	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1057	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1058	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1059	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1060	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1061	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1062	Article 69 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 70 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1063	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1064	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1065	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1066	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1067	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1068	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1069	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1070	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1071	Article 70 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 71 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1072	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1073	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1074	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1075	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1076	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1077	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1078	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1079	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1080	Article 71 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 72 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1081	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1082	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1083	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1084	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1085	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1086	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1087	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1088	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1089	Article 72 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 73 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1090	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1091	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1092	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1093	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1094	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1095	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1096	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1097	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1098	Article 73 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 74 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1099	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1100	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1101	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1102	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1103	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1104	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1105	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1106	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1107	Article 74 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 75 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1108	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1109	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1110	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1111	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1112	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1113	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1114	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1115	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1116	Article 75 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 76 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1117	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1118	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1119	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1120	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1121	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1122	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1123	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1124	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1125	Article 76 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 77 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1126	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1127	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1128	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1129	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1130	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1131	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1132	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1133	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1134	Article 77 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 78 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1135	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1136	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1137	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1138	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1139	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1140	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1141	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1142	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1143	Article 78 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 79 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1144	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1145	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1146	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1147	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1148	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1149	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1150	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1151	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1152	Article 79 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 80 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1153	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1154	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1155	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1156	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1157	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1158	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1159	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1160	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1161	Article 80 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 81 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1162	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1163	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1164	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1165	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1166	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1167	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1168	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1169	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1170	Article 81 was therefore accepted as majority. Will Rule 82 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1171	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1172	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1173	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1174	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1175	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1176	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1177	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1178	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1179	Article 82 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 83 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1180	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1181	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1182	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1183	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1184	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1185	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1186	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1187	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1188	Article 83 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 84 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1189	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1190	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1191	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1192	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1193	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1194	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1195	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1196	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1197	Article 84 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 85 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1198	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1199	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1200	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1201	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1202	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1203	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1204	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1205	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1206	Article 85 was therefore accepted as majority. Will Rule 86 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1207	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1208	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1209	Nope.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1210	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1211	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1212	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1213	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1214	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1215	Article 86 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 87 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1216	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1217	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1218	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1219	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1220	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1221	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1222	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1223	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1224	Article 87 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 88 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1225	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1226	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1227	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1228	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1229	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1230	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1231	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1232	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1233	Article 88 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 89 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1234	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1235	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1236	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1237	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1238	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1239	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1240	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1241	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1242	Article 89 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 90 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1243	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1244	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1245	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1246	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1247	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1248	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1249	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1250	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1251	Article 90 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 91 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1252	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1253	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1254	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1255	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1256	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1257	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1258	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1259	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1260	Article 91 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 92 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1261	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1262	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1263	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1264	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1265	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1266	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1267	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1268	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1269	Article 92 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 93 as such be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1270	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1271	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1272	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1273	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1274	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1275	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1276	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1277	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1278	Article 93 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 94 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1279	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1280	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1281	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1282	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1283	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1284	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1285	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1286	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1287	Article 94 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 95 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1288	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1289	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1290	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1291	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1292	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1293	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1294	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1295	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1296	Article 95 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 96 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1297	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1298	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1299	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1300	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1301	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1302	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1303	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1304	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1305	Article 96 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 97 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1306	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1307	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1308	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1309	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1310	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1311	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1312	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1313	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1314	Article 97 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 98 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1315	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1316	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1317	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1318	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1319	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1320	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1321	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1322	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1323	Article 98 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 99 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1324	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1325	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1326	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1327	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1328	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1329	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1330	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1331	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1332	Article 99 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 100 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1333	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1334	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1335	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1336	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1337	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1338	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1339	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1340	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1341	Article 100 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 101 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1342	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1343	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1344	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1345	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1346	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1347	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1348	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1349	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1350	Article 101 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 102 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1351	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1352	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1353	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1354	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1355	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1356	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1357	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1358	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1359	Article 102 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 103 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1360	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1361	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1362	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1363	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1364	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1365	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1366	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1367	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1368	Article 103 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 104 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1369	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1370	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1371	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1372	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1373	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1374	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1375	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1376	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1377	Article 104 was therefore accepted as it is by a majority. Will Rule 105 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1378	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1379	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1380	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1381	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1382	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1383	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1384	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1385	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1386	Article 105 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 106 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1387	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1388	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1389	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1390	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1391	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1392	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1393	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1394	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1395	Article 106 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 107 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1396	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1397	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1398	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1399	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1400	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1401	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1402	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1403	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1404	Article 107 was therefore accepted as it is by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 108 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1405	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1406	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1407	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1408	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1409	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1410	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1411	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1412	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1413	Article 108 was therefore accepted as it is by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 109 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1414	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1415	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1416	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1417	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1418	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1419	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1420	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1421	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1422	Article 109 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 110 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1423	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1424	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1425	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1426	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1427	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1428	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1429	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1430	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1431	Article 110 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 111 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1432	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1433	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1434	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1435	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1436	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1437	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1438	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1439	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1440	Article 111 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 112 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1441	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1442	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1443	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1444	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1445	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1446	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1447	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1448	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1449	Article 112 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 113 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1450	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1451	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1452	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1453	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1454	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1455	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1456	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1457	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1458	Article 113 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 114 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1459	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1460	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1461	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1462	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1463	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1464	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1465	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1466	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1467	Article 114 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 115 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1468	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1469	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1470	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1471	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1472	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1473	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1474	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1475	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1476	Article 115 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 116 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1477	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1478	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1479	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1480	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1481	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1482	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1483	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1484	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1485	Article 116 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 117 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1486	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1487	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1488	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1489	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1490	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1491	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1492	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1493	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1494	Article 117 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 118 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1495	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1496	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1497	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1498	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1499	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1500	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1501	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1502	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1503	Article 118 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 119 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1504	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1505	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1506	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1507	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1508	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1509	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1510	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1511	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1512	Article 119 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 120 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1513	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1514	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1515	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1516	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1517	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1518	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1519	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1520	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1521	Article 120 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 121 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1522	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1523	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1524	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1525	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1526	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1527	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1528	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1529	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1530	Article 121 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 122 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1531	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1532	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1533	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1534	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1535	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1536	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1537	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1538	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1539	Article 122 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 123 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1540	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1541	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1542	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1543	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1544	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1545	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1546	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1547	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1548	Article 123 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 124 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1549	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1550	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1551	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1552	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1553	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1554	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1555	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1556	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1557	Article 124 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 125 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1558	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1559	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1560	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1561	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1562	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1563	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1564	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1565	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1566	Article 125 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 126 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1567	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1568	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1569	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1570	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1571	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1572	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1573	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1574	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1575	Article 126 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 127 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1576	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1577	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1578	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1579	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1580	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1581	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1582	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1583	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1584	Article 127 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 128 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1585	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1586	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1587	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1588	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1589	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1590	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1591	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1592	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1593	Article 128 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 129 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1594	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1595	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1596	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1597	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1598	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1599	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1600	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1601	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1602	Article 129 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 130 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1603	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1604	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1605	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1606	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1607	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1608	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1609	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1610	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1611	Article 130 has therefore been accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 131 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1612	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1613	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1614	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1615	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1616	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1617	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1618	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1619	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1620	Article 131 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 132 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1621	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1622	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1623	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1624	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1625	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1626	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1627	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1628	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1629	Article 132 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 133 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1630	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1631	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1632	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1633	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1634	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1635	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1636	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1637	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1638	Article 133 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 134 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1639	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1640	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1641	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1642	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1643	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1644	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1645	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1646	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1647	Article 134 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 135 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1648	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1649	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1650	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1651	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1652	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1653	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1654	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1655	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1656	Article 135 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 136 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1657	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1658	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1659	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1660	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1661	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1662	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1663	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1664	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1665	Article 136 was therefore accepted as it is by a majority. Will Rule 137 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1666	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1667	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1668	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1669	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1670	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1671	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1672	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1673	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1674	Article 137 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 138 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1675	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1676	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1677	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1678	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1679	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1680	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1681	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1682	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1683	Article 138 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 139 be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1684	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1685	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1686	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1687	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1688	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1689	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1690	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1691	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1692	Article 139 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 140 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1693	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1694	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1695	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1696	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1697	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1698	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1699	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1700	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1701	Article 140 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 141 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1702	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1703	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1704	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1705	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1706	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1707	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1708	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1709	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1710	Article 141 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 142 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1711	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1712	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1713	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1714	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1715	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1716	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1717	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1718	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1719	Article 142 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 143, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1720	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1721	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1722	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1723	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1724	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1725	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1726	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1727	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1728	Article 143 was therefore accepted by a majority as amended by the Minister. Will Rule 144 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1729	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1730	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1731	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1732	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1733	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1734	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1735	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1736	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1737	Article 144 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 145 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1738	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1739	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1740	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1741	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1742	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1743	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1744	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1745	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1746	Article 145 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 146 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1747	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1748	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1749	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1750	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1751	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1752	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1753	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1754	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1755	Article 146 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 147 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1756	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1757	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1758	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1759	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1760	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1761	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1762	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1763	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1764	Article 147 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 148 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1765	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1766	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1767	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1768	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1769	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1770	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1771	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1772	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1773	Article 148 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 149 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1774	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1775	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1776	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1777	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1778	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1779	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1780	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1781	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1782	Article 149 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 150 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1783	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1784	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1785	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1786	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1787	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1788	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1789	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1790	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1791	Article 150 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 1131 and a special number 42 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1792	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1793	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1794	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1795	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1796	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1797	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1798	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1799	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1800	Therefore, the amendment under the general number 1131 and a special 42 was accepted as it stands and is part of the bill as the same articles. Does the House accept the amendment by a general number 1139 and a special number 45, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1801	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1802	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1803	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1804	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1805	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1806	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1807	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1808	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1809	Therefore, the amendment under general number 1139 and a special 45 was accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 1140 and a special number 46 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1810	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1811	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1812	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1813	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1814	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1815	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1816	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1817	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1818	Therefore, the amendment under a general number 1140 and a special 46 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 1144 and a special number 49 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1819	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1820	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1821	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1822	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1823	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1824	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1825	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1826	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1827	Therefore, the amendment under general number 1144 and a special 49 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 1145 and a specialist of 50?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1828	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1829	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1830	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1831	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1832	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1833	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1834	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1835	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1836	Therefore, the amendment under a general number 1145 and a specialist of 50 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 1146 and a special number 51 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1837	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1838	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1839	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1840	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1841	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1842	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1843	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1844	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1845	Therefore, the amendment under general number 1146 and a special number 51 were accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment acceptable under a general number 1147 and a special number 52 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1846	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1847	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1848	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1849	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1850	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1851	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1852	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1853	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1854	Therefore, the amendment under a general number 1147 and a specialist 52 were accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment by a general number 1148 and a special 53, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1855	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1856	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1857	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1858	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1859	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1860	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1861	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1862	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1863	Therefore, the amendment under the general number 1148 and a special 53 was accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 1114 and a special number 28 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1864	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1865	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1866	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1867	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1868	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1869	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1870	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1871	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1872	Therefore, the amendment under general number 1114 and a special 28 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 1129 and a special number 40 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1873	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1874	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1875	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1876	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1877	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1878	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1879	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1880	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1881	So the amendment under general number 1129 and a special 40 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment by a general number 1130 and a special number 41, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1882	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1883	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1884	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1885	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1886	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1887	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1888	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1889	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1890	Therefore, the amendment with a general number 1130 and a special 41 was accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 1137 and a special number 44 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1891	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1892	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1893	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1894	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1895	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1896	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1897	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1898	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1899	Therefore, the amendment under general number 1137 and a special 44 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment under a general number 1142 and a special number 47?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1900	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1901	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1902	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1903	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1904	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1905	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1906	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1907	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1908	Therefore, the amendment under a general number 1142 and a special 47 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment by a general number 1143 and a special 48?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1909	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1910	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1911	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1912	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1913	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1914	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1915	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1916	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1917	Therefore, the amendment under the general number 1143 and a special 48 was accepted unanimously and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1918	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1919	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1920	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1921	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1922	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1923	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1924	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1925	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1926	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the Legislative Decree of the Ministry of Interior: ‘Approvements for the modernisation of the institutional framework for the organisation and operation of municipal waste water treatment operations (PRC) - Arrangements relating to the organization, operation, financial and personnel of the O.T.A. - European Groupings for Territorial Cooperation - Citizens' Register and other provisions' has been accepted in principle and under Articles. We move on to vote on the bill and on the whole. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1927	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1928	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1929	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1930	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1931	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1932	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1933	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1934	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1935	Consequently, the Legislative Decree of the Ministry of Interior: ‘Approvements for the modernisation of the institutional framework for the organisation and operation of municipal waste water treatment operations (PRC) - Arrangements relating to the organization, operation, financial and personnel of the O.T.A. - European Territorial Cooperation Groups - Citizens' Register and other provisions' has been accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle of Articles and the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1936	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1937	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-26-S1-commons.u1938	With the consent of the House at 20.50 minutes the sitting will be resolved for tomorrow, Thursday 27 July 2017 at 18.00, on the subject of this House's work: legislative work, according to the supplementary agenda distributed.
