ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to the Parliament's 19-7-2017 authorisation, the PRACs' minutes of Wednesday, 19 July 2017, with regard to the vote on the whole draft law: ‘New regulatory framework for urban transport in the Regional Unit of Thessaloniki and other provisions’.]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS Today, six topical questions will be discussed. We will begin with the third with number 1217-12-2017, a topical question from the First Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: “Exploration of thousands of self-employed people in retirement”. In this timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr. Petersburg. Please, Mr Vice-President, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u2	First of all, the ironhead, Mr. Cammene, I wish you all the best.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u4	But I would like to say that my question is to the Minister for no other reason, but why does she have the legislative work. My question relates essentially to legislative work and not to Mr Petropoulos, which I particularly appreciate as a State Secretary and as a human being. My question therefore concerns the legislative work, because even if it has given responsibility, if you wish, the legislative work always belongs to the Minister. So I would like the Minister to be here, for that reason alone. However, the question to the Minister is as follows. I am not aware of any insurance body, whether public or private, which, without giving benefits, either in pensions or in the field of health and welfare, seeks increased premiums. This has consequences, if you like, for the whole range of work and it is the philosophy of the system. But here we have this: people are ending their insurance years, these thirty-five years, and they are still paying for more security, without having to receive any more pension. Because, even if they theoretically collect, after pensions have been cut, they are not actually collected. A lot more when we get to the forty years of insurance, which the law says at the time that the insured person may request a 50% discount on the insurance contribution, which is reasonable. However, when the insurers received the insurance notes, they saw that, despite the discount, they pay twice as much insurance as they pay to their funds, at least twice as much. It can be more than that, depending on their income. Here we have taxation, we have no insurance contributions. The question, therefore, is this why I asked that Minister Ahcioglu be here: is the Minister intending to intervene in legislation or to allow this to continue, so that the workers are slowly retired and not to pay for the ECA? Because if I were Mrs Ahtsoglu, I would do the following. I'd like more people to work and pay than to pay pensions. But when you increase their premiums, you necessarily lead them to retirement.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much to the Vice-President. Let me inform you that we have a letter from the General Secretariat of the Government that the Minister is lacking in an unsuccessful obligation on a government mission abroad. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, all these issues really involve a very good reflection, as you have raised them. It is important that we do not encourage the person concerned and work able to be part of the pension rather than be active. It must be in active action. This is also necessary because of the demographic problem we have. We must maintain at least the base of the pyramid as long as it is done in a good condition in proportion to its peak. With Law 3863/2010, the thirty-five years have already been forty since 2010. So the starting point of your thought has a deficit in this respect. It was not thirty-five years and we did it forty, it was already this increase regulated by Law 3863/2010. What we have done is - in the logic that you have put forward and I fully agree with you - to enable someone to continue working by making a contribution less than what he has done before. This is an incentive to keep employment. If he has completed forty years of insurance, he will pay half the contribution he would pay. I am impressed by what you are saying, and it is important to discuss together and give me the relevant information, if that is the case, that someone should be asked to pay more than they did before. It will only happen in cases where a mistake has been made. Unless this is a huge income base for the insured person. I cannot mathematically explain a case like this if it really is. That is why I will be at your disposal to see ad hoc in these cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u7	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Mr Vice-President, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u8	First of all, I very much appreciate the reply of the Secretary-General, Mr Petropoulos. I return to the question again - saying that I would like to talk about it with the Minister - of whether he intends to change this whole story legally. I certainly agree that the law is 2010, but it does not matter, the state is single. I am not making a division of responsibilities right now between the parties, but we are discussing the situation in the country. What I see and worry about is that at the moment if a taxpayer, for example, pays production and productivity tax at 45%, pays the next year's tax. So 45% isn't 45%, it's 60%, 70%, where it goes. It prepays next year and pays FRCA, pays HISBIA, pays VAT and has Capital Controls. We celebrate where the country will go back to the markets, but the country was on the markets and went bankrupt. Because what does it mean to get into the market? You know that, Mr President, and you do. Purchases means you're getting money to get productive investments. We had investments and went bankrupt, but we did not have productive investments. Because, as you know, America owes close to 20 trillions, and we went bankrupt with just about 300 to 340 billion euros. For the trillions that Italy owes, it has not been bankrupt because it has production and productivity. The question, then, is: Can we, with all that I mentioned, look forward to productive development? How is that possible? I conclude my question and would like Mr Petropoulos to tell me his opinion, but also to pass it on to the Minister. He said he'd see the individual cases, and I'm glad about that. However, it is not the purpose of my question that individual cases should be asked. The purpose of my question is the philosophy of paying increased taxation through all these mechanisms: ECA, VAT, and so on. That is the question and this question must be addressed to the Minister of Finance and not to the Minister of Labour. It is good, however, within the framework of the government's financial staff to also employ the Minister of Labour and, of course, Mr Petropoulos's opinion is respected and I hope he will tell us here to listen to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u9	Thank you very much Mr. Kremastino. The floor is held by the Deputy Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr Anastasios Petropoulos for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u10	I think we will find out the positive effects - and we have already seen them - of L.4387 in the economy. It is an intervention in a positive way for growth, particularly in small and medium-sized enterprises. Because that is where we really had an asymmetrical charge in accordance with the provisions in force, by imposing charges on categories - I mean on levels of contribution calculation - which had no response to the actual incomes of those who were asked to contribute. That is why we also had this phenomenon of the concentration of many debts, huge debts. It is mainly the category of free professionals and even farmers. The connection between the levy and the net taxable income creates proof that a person is required to pay what he actually can, while the previous provisions were called upon to do something which was not certain to be able to pay it and which was not determined on the basis of his actual net income, i.e. after taxes, the amount received from one's professional activity. That is why I say that our intervention is also of a development nature, because it has largely liberated a category of professions in small and medium-sized enterprises mainly from a great burden of contributions that it could not bear. It is a reality, Mr President. And in your neighborhood, I think you'll find out if you ask the small mamazators what they've done and what they're doing. This truth is now proven and we need to see in that direction and the other interventions we make. The fact that we have foreseen that one should be able to continue working instead of being forced to close the shop in order to get out of retirement, should have the right to continue to work by paying 50% of the contribution that he was going to pay, is a serious example of our concept of social security. Social security is intended to protect and not make someone richer. Therefore, when someone is economically active, we must take the measures that contribute to maintaining employment and that has been done. I think your whole question is based on an assumption that already exists in the law expressed by its provisions. Mr President, I really want to discuss this with you too, to see that this has happened and things are better the way we did it than they were. I will be at your disposal to see what you have said. I don't think that's a problem. Improvements can always be found and seen. But what we have done is exactly in the philosophy you have developed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u11	Thank you very much, Minister. We move to the first with No 1243/18-7-2017 a top-level question from the Member of the Lesbos Parliamentary of the New Democracy Mr Charalambos Athanasiou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the establishment of a Local Directorate of the Efka Limnos. Minister, you have two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, Mr President, I would like to congratulate you on taking up your duties and wish you good strength.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u13	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u14	Minister, as is well known, the Local Branch of Myrnas, IKA and the OAE division of Limnos serve two remote islands, Lemnos and Agios Efstratios, with a population of eighteen thousand, who in the summer months are growing very much. In fact, in some cases they have approached all fifty thousand inhabitants. Lemnos is characterised as a border and problematic area, with extremely difficult transport, both air and seaports, due to the particularly difficult weather conditions during the winter season and due to the high, almost prohibitive, transport costs in other places and especially in the capital of Lesbos, Mytilini. The "EKA Agency Plan", which has been published, degrades the Local Branch IKA Myrina and the Department of the OAU, which will now form an integral functional part of the Local Directorate of Mitilini. We know this, of course, at a personal level, because a question we had asked before. However, we have not received an answer and you have not taken into account the views we have expressed on the malfunctions that will be created and, of course, the fate of the workers' jobs in the branch. Minister, it is worth noting that the transition by boat to the capital of the Mytilini Prefecture, where the ECA Coordination Branch will operate, lasts five hours, with only two trips a week scheduled. Besides, the workers and the inhabitants of the island are already experiencing the hardship that has been created with the issues of the abolition of the DU, but also, of course, with the CEPOL Committee, that is, the Centre for the Certification of Disability, which operates only in Mytilini. So you understand, in view of the difficulties of the routes, what problems we face. Of course, all responsibilities are now transferred to the Department of FYROM. The question and at the same time, Mr Minister, is to rethink this issue so that, after reviewing your view of the degradation of the IKA Local Branch and of the OAU section, you can proceed with the establishment of a Local Directorate of FKA Limnos. Let us not forget that in smaller islands you have made this arrangement, such as in Naxos and other islands. But it doesn't matter. That does not mean that it should not be there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u15	Thank you very much Mr Athanasios. Minister, you can proceed to your prototype for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. The population of the North Aegean region is about ninety thousand. If only the population criteria were to be taken into account, we would create two local addresses of the EPC. We don't do that. We have three local addresses in Chios, Lesvos and Samos. In Lemnos, during my visit to the island when earthquakes occurred, I said - and I refer to your question - that the staff employed there will not be reduced. That's true. They're fourteen employees in the Wages Department, ex-IKA, and they're both in the Non-Employees Department. So these sixteen people, who are in two different buildings, hired both, will continue to serve the insured of Lemnos and Ai Stratis in a way much better than they were in employment. Because now the FBI is everything. It's OGA, it's ETA, it's OAE, it's IKA, it's CSMEDE. All the services of all bodies are now provided. Therefore, meeting the needs of the insured persons is complete. It is full of all the expressions of needs. Because the new structure created in the EVC and evolving meets all kinds of need. Even the issues of disability and, as you know, access to the islands is difficult. We did not have on every island - here we have no doctor - committees judged as disabled. We are organizing these issues in such a way that there is the shortest possible service. As I said, distances disappear with the new operating system of the ECA, because it will be electronic and computerised to serve insurance needs, so that the transition does not even need to be made. There will be no need for the transition, because the system itself covers needs it never covered in the past.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u17	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Athanasios has the floor for his dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u18	Minister, I do not know whether it is possible to cover the adoption of voluntary insurance, recognised periods of insurance and military service - for example - acts and losses of insurance books, as well as the adoption of decisions to grant sickness, maternity and other benefits. It is also not provided for the responsibility of the department, from what has come to our attention from the study of the project, nor even the point of submission of CEPR applications, which is currently in operation and which would be degraded to an examination point for the insured. The Disability Certification Center is a huge problem. It is worth noting that, as I have said, it will take too many times the inhabitants of Lemnos to go to Mytilini. This cannot be done electronically. For example, with regard to the treatment of insured persons and employers, they will be received and transferred to the local Mytilini where they will be heard and, as a consequence, the applicants will be forced to move. Aren't they going to support their application? This cannot be done electronically. Beyond that - I don't understand - the employees will stay the same as the sixteen?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u19	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u20	What you say and commit is pleasant. Because when they gave their exams and submitted their documents to be recruited, they looked to them to be in Lemnos where they are now family-based and the center of their life relationships. As far as the question of officials is concerned - it is the second part of the question - I think I am satisfied with your reply that they will not be moved. But what about the citizens' movements? This is a huge problem, and, as I have said, the parties concerned will be required, so that they can support their views in Mytilini, with all the difficulties that I have told you. Since the expenditure will not be that great - because the officials will stay - it does not matter that the situation remains as it is. It doesn't change anything. The building exists, the employees remain the same, the payroll is the same, the rent is the same, so why not stay there as a local address in Lemnos?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u21	Thank you very much. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u22	Let me tell you once again - I had other opportunities to say - that the establishment plan and the operation in general of spatial extension of the Single Social Security Agency is the result of a long consultation period and between the officials and officials of the single institution, but also on my own mandate, the project in question was sent to all regions of the country in order to suggest thoughts, particularly on geographical dispersion. Of course, as you can see, the organisational issues have to do with the possibility of responding to the needs of the citizens. And the needs of the citizens in Lemnos were not served by an OAU store with two employees and a IKA store. What did engineers do? What did the farmers do? The other insured, scientists, lawyers? The EBRD didn't go to Mytilini? That's where you're going. Now it won't go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u23	No, there's a transitional court and a peace court.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u24	We're not talking about a court. I'm talking about the needs of the insured to appeal to everything you've developed, to appeal, to make applications for treatment. They should be going to Mytilini. They do not have to go to Mytilini, because all benefits and services can be made for all the former distinguished social security institutions from Lemnos. So what you are proposing, that is not the case, is not the case. Only - they are now all insured under the umbrella of EKKA and all are served much faster and much more efficiently.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u25	Excuse me for interrupting, but how will you support it? Naxos and Kalymnos have the same problem. You did well in Kalymnos, but why not in Lemnos?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u26	Mr. Athanasios, you have in your district of Lesvos, Lemnos and Ai Stratis. Is Ai Stratis in your own district or is he in Kavala?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u27	Ai Stratis is in Lemnos, Lesvos Prefecture.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u28	Because you are from this region, you have the same interest. But let's see all the islands. And all the islands had no possibility of a single operator. And all the islands now have the possibility of representation everywhere, through the systems that we create. Irrespective of the institution of origin in terms of social security, everyone is now served and served by the store there, and we will certainly make sure that it is one and not two, so that we do not pay two rents. I think it is good to find a solution, the most accessible to the needs of the insured, but also less costly. I imagine we'll find an even better solution for housing our services there. You'll see that things are different than you think. You have already been disproved of the wrong impression that the employees will leave Lemnos. So your other false impressions will be disproved by the continuation of our work, you will see it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u29	We hope it's all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u30	Thank you very much to the Minister for his answer. We move on to the third timely question that will be answered by the State Secretary. The second question will be discussed with number 1220/12/2017 in the context of the second question by the Member of Parliament, Aetolakronas of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulou, Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "Exemption of lawyers - associates of lawyers paid by the provision of services from the distribution of insurance contributions". Mr. Constantopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u31	Mr President, first I wish you good strength in your new duties and iron!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u32	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u33	Minister, lawyers - co-operatives of legal corporations today suffer a great injustice: While the insurance contributions of all free traders with blocks employed by one or two employers are divided by one third to the same and two thirds to their employers, legal associates have another chance. In particular, with two ministerial decisions, which have been adopted since the new insurance law, and without legislative authorisation, you have excluded them from this favourable regulation. Thus, those lawyers must pay themselves all their contributions. I would like to point out that it is those who are rewarded with EUR 700 per month in blocks, which are mostly young. Of course they're not big lawyers. That is why, Minister, the Association of Attorneys and Young Lawyers of Athens has challenged ministerial decisions as unconstitutional and has asked for their annulment by the Council of State, not only because the procedures for publicity have not been complied with but also because these decisions violate the principle of equality, at the expense of the workers in the law firms. The question, however, is that, pending the decision of the CoC, several legal associates are today forced to pay even the part of their contributions, which, of course, does not account for them. And that's because if they don't pay them, they're going to create due debts and they won't be able to issue insurance information. However, what will be the result? Losing this money, Minister, as the insurance funds as you know do not have to repay sums paid as insurance contributions. So the economic and moral harm they will suffer will be irreparable. So I ask you: will you rectify the two ministerial decisions exempting lawyers from the sharing of contributions so that the principle of equality is not violated? If so, what is the timetable and what is your actions? Secondly, do you know, Minister, that these ministerial decisions have never been published as being due to FEC? What are you going to do to protect insured lawyers in the light of an application for suspension and cancellation in the TBR for the contributions they already pay without, of course, having to pay? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u34	Thank you very much, Mr Constantopoulos. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u35	Mr Constantopoulos, lawyers should be aware of the fundamentals of the Code of Law-Law on Law-Law on Law-Law on Law-Law on Law-Law-Law on Law-Law on Law-Law-Law on Law-Laws. The result of this distortion is your question without your will, although I think you are a lawyer too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u36	No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u37	You're not a lawyer. It is therefore justified not to know what I will now tell you and I am sure you will be convinced. With Articles 1 and 2 of the Code of Lawyers, which has always been the case, lawyers are public unpaid officials and Law 4194/2013, created by the involvement of the lawyers, provided for exactly the same thing that they were always provided for, that they are independent, unpaid civil servants and also provided for in the way they provided and the oldest provisions when the lawyer could be and when the lawyer's mandate could be paid and the lawyer's mandate, as is known, pays two thirds of the lawyer and one third of the lawyer, as is the case with the dependent workers. While the lawyer cannot be a dependent worker because he must have freedom of conscience and thought, the provision in question requires him precisely, and according to the provision of Law No.4387, the paid lawyer is also in force for the immigrant other workers of dependent employment. So the lawyers are covered. It's false what's being put on. Some considered that they should be subject to the provisions of the blocked workers. I have repeatedly said that the provisions of forced law of the Code of Law-Law on Law-Laws should not be lightly tempted by any Minister. The relevant provisions are particularly high level of protection, and we must respect them, because they concern the function of a lawyer who is the basis of the state's judicial function. And for this reason, if anyone has the floor to speak, they are the legal clubs of the country, which in any case in the provisions of Law 4194 Code on Lawyers 2013 provide that the lawyer, which is related to a law firm, and the lawyer, who operates by providing services to a law firm, can state that this relationship is a leased order, so it will be subject to the relevant provisions. It is not prevented by any ministerial decision. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The circular explained something, which did not even need clarification. There is the law code of lawyers the possibility for a person, who has a relationship to provide services to a law firm, to declare to the legal association that he has an unpaid order. From that moment on, do you know who's in charge? The relevant law association with its disciplinary bodies. The Labour Inspectors are not going to see what's going on with the lawyers' relations. It's not a addictive job. That's to restore the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. You'll tell your dentist. Mr. Constantopoulos, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u39	Undersecretary, lawyers, legal associates, meet the conditions of the law to divide their contributions. Firstly, they provide their services to the lawyers or their colleagues with contracts resulting from the obligation to issue a service card and, secondly, their income comes from employment or from one or two employers. In other words, they work in the same way as all free professionals, whose income comes from employment to one or two employers, as I said. There are two questions coming up here too. Firstly, why were they considered to be a special category and excluded from this favourable regulation? And, secondly, who was the author of this exception served and what was his objective? You owe a sincere answer here as a government to these young scientists, many of whom are leaving and outside Greece, in order to live their dreams decently. Undersecretary, with the current situation, you are burdening the low-paid lawyers, the young scientists, who start their professional careers, in favor of course of the major law firms. It is currently a dry acne at a time when the working environment is getting worse and it is a question of whether they have a show before a court. I mean, it's primarily moral. Even moral for what future we are shaping them. What message do you send them, Mr. Secretary, as a government? That you're leaving them for the benefit of big law firms. What message do you send to all the young scientists, who stubbornly live in Greece and strive to create here. Finally, Mr Secretary, we must stop Brain Drain and the new lawyers. Enough to migrate young people abroad, unless we want to lead them all to immigration. You talked about hired work. And here I have a question, Mr. Undersecretary. I want you to answer from now on: What difference do legal associates have with their lawyers? Because right now, lawyers with an individual business, who employ lawyers with a block, are obliged to pay two-thirds of their contributions, while lawyers, in which the employment status there is more typical, I would say, and more stringent, do nothing. Also, to note that the income of lawyers, who are contracted, is considered by tax as income from hired services. So what's the matter? I'm waiting for your answer. Finally, Mr Secretary-General, the essence is one: Legal partnerships cannot continue to work in a foggy situation even when unfavourable working conditions are consolidated. You have to give a solution immediately, a fair solution, which will send out a message throughout society, a message, I would say, to young people for equality and equalisation. Send them a message that they can stay in Greece and live decently, create at their place. Minister, I ask you today to put an end to this immunity, to take off the new lawyers who work for lawyers, from the unreasonable financial burden, and to treat them like all the free professionals, so that there are no double standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr. Constantopoulos. Minister, please have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Constantopoulos, you haven't understood what I told you before. He'll explain it to you next, Mr. Carras, who's a lawyer, and he knows.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u42	I have another point of view, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u43	Mr. Carras has a different view.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u44	From you, not from me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u45	Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u46	Okay. So the fair will continue. Listen, then, to understand. You have the opportunity to understand today and you and those who are listening. First of all, don't read to me the announcements of a club, which I wonder how they say these things and they go against the provisions of the Code of Lawyers. What exactly do they say? So I'm telling you that the media record is kept by the lawyers. And the procedure is as I told you before: Suffice the lawyer's statement to the lawyer's register that he's paid for and in relation to a hired order with the particular law firm or the particular order. In such a case, the lawyer shall take the action if the law firm does not treat the lawyer with an unpaid order, intervene and invite him to apologize before the relevant disciplinary committee of the lawyer concerned because he is unlawfully dealing with the relevant rights of the lawyer, which he has to represent in person. That's the process. What should the Minister do? So, should we fix the code? The Code of Lawyers has never been built in the absence of the Bar Association. Never. In fact, the last one...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u47	Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u48	If you're not a lawyer, listen at least to find out.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u49	There are two yards and two weights.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u50	Listen, at least.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u51	My dear colleague, please be quiet for the Minister to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u52	Just say it because you don't know it. The lawyer is making a statement that it's with an order unpaid. That's what the code says. So when he makes this statement to the lawyer's club...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u53	The new lawyer working in a company is treated differently from a lawyer working in a law firm.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u54	Lawyer's not a addict...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u55	Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u56	Mr. Constantopoulos, let the Minister answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u57	Mr. Constantopoulos, you are following the bad way of your colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u58	Dear Mr Constantopoulos, let the Minister reply. And we'll all get the minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u59	Mr. Constantopoulos, since you're not a lawyer, learn something as a representative of the nation here. Listen, we have a decision of the Ice Bay, the Council of State on several occasions about what the lawyer is. If it is not enough for you what the Code of Lawyers, which is founded on provisions of forced law on a strong basis, then hear that all our highest courts are saying the same. And there is also the procedure: the lawyer who has been hired will go and declare this in the register of the lawyer to whom he belongs. And it's going to be with an order that's unpaid. And his commander will pay two thirds and he'll pay one third. Let's do it. There's no other way. Put him on the workers' platform? What are you talking about? These things can't be done. Do not all follow this irresponsible behaviour, which simply sows all this bad and twisted information. Get well informed and act properly. This is what you must do from repeating all this...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u60	Minister, I asked you to tell me what the difference between a lawyer working in a law firm and the lawyer working in a law firm is.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u61	Now what can I tell you? I can't agree with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u62	Mr. Constantopoulos, it's not recorded.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u63	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u64	I think your question in your dentistry was clear. Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u65	Mr. President, excuse me. Are we finally going to have a serious conversation? There is no serious discussion, Mr Constantopoulos. And I wasn't expecting it from you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u66	Minister, we'll all get the minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u67	Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u68	Mr. Constantopoulos, is that possible? I'm telling you, people don't have a problem. They're telling the lawyer and they're going to have this treatment. Let's do it. That's my answer: go do it. There's nothing else to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u69	Thank you very much. We continue with the third with number 4668/31-3-2017 question of the Independent MEP II of Athens Mr.Theocharis Theocharis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the "risk of not paying a hundred and fifty thousand outstanding pensions from the EPKA". Mr Anastasios Petropoulos will answer Mr Anastasios Petropoulos' question. Mr Theocharis has the floor for his prototype for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. That's a good start.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u71	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u72	Minister, Article 57 of Law 4438/2016 supplemented Article 6 of Law 4281/2014 on the grant of 859 million agreed with our lenders in the loan agreements so that the general government and social security institutions can repay their dues until 31 October 2017. In particular, it was stated that the bodies should run until then - now of course we are talking about EVA - has consolidated the procedure - so that they can pay by the end of October so that they can use this grant that you agreed with our lenders. Of course, since I submitted the question, you have supplemented it with a new ministerial decision - before the question you had made a ministerial decision - and in a firefighting way you have been trying to activate the procedures so that these funds can be used up. We see, however, that the results are poor. Only EUR 70 million by the end of May have been granted, according to the ECA communication. In fact, an article by the newspaper "VOLUNCH" on 30-3-2017 presents a document from the administration of EVA dated 24-3-2017, and there it is clear now that EVA has too many problems of malfunction and, in particular, in this area, in the area of the payment of late obligations, there is no strategic plan, there is no procedure to be able to proceed quickly, and so there is a huge risk, I would say, of not satisfying the time margins that have been set. Specifically, it speaks of problems in cooperation between the "INTRASOT" and IRIKA, which is the company that supports the computer system of the IKA and now EKA. There is money that the FBI owes to 'INTRASOT' and that is how there are malfunctions. There's a lack of staff in the DRC. I therefore ask you: has the Minister of Labour adopted a joint ministerial decision, as well as the Minister of Finance, which lays down terms and conditions for the procedure for the granting of the CMRs for the payment of outstanding applications by October? How many pensions of the hundred and fifty thousand outstanding have been definitively paid? Is there a clear plan for the payment of outstanding pensions by October 2017 to ensure 859 million? Would you like to set a clear timetable for the operation of the EVA as a single fund? In this document it speaks of the malfunctions that still exist. How do you plan to normalize the operation of the insurance register? Is there a plan to pay the amounts due to the ‘INTRASOT’? Is there any programming of aid with employees in the DRC? How can it be served with experienced IT personnel, possibly by the Social Security Foundation or by other procedures?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u73	Thank you very much, Mr Theochari. The Minister has the floor for three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u74	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Theochari, we have announced the relevant evidence. I'll do it now. We received a situation with over a hundred and sixty thousand major pensions in 2015. In the past two years, we have given two hundred and seven thousand major pensions, and we have about thirty - three thousand as a remnant. They have been further reduced because they have been given in the meantime and are given at a faster rate than basic pensions. You spoke about this strengthening of the labour supply of the people working above, because the fact is that from about fourteen thousand workers to the social security institutions were left close to the eight thousand three hundred. We are doing with almost six thousand fewer jobs in the past, because the largest population in the individual funds - almost double the old - left less than the rest in relation to now and we have to clear much more pensions with almost half the population. So you must also tell us - because so far I ask all the wings that tell me why we give money - if you disagree on rewarding those who work above - we will not give them as a gift - on the basis of objectives that they will have. And on the basis of these objectives, more will be paid for the work they will provide in order to issue all these pensions. Our official services have been organized with working parties in order to achieve the goal. And the goal is to make 20 or twenty-three thousand main pensions for the EKA every month. It is certain that the results will be successful. We will actually have achieved for the first time something that has never been achieved in the past and will be the result of the struggle that the executives and the employees of EKKA themselves will give, in order to minimise pensions and get to the pace even faster, on the basis of new organization models for the issue of pensions already provided for by Law4387, and the related functions and computer applications will come to serve it. What you are talking about about 'INTRASOT' and IRIKI is about a bad past practice, where no record was in agreement with its side. Different registries, different languages, as IT says, were not possible to end up talking in a way understandable to each other. We are talking about Babel in Informatics, which no one could agree with and the programs had to unify. That, whoever knows from IT knows about it, he knows it. I do not know, but I have inevitably been informed in this process too. We had such an approach. In my dentistry, I will finish what I have to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u75	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Theochari, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u76	Thank you. Minister, first of all I am pleased with the honesty of your answer, the fact that you have admitted the failure of policy, since you have just told us that you have received sixty thousand outstanding pensions and you are at a hundred forty.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u77	One hundred and sixty thousand.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u78	Sixty thousand are the ones that are old at the moment, according to what Mr Bakaleksi said, who came to the Committee on Social Affairs of the Parliament on 20 July and confessed to the inability of EFKA to give a solution. Because the objective - and I stress it - is the objective, which means that its success is not guaranteed - is the extradition of twenty thousand permanent pensions every month. In other words, he admits that, at best, he will be able to issue sixty thousand pensions, while, of course, it is much more. So you made this ministerial decision. I am presenting in the minutes the EPC Administration's document and read from it: 'Because there is no clear plan for handling all outstanding pensions, nor does it appear that we will be able to achieve this objective by October 2017, in order to ensure the European Union's assistance in paying pensions...'. So here we have the full confession of failure. Apparently, you had to do some remedial moves. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Theocharis (Haris) Theocharis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The first thing you have done is to make this ministerial decision so that you can deal with the outstanding pensions that I recall - because the Greek people must also know - is EUR 1.37 billion, which you owe to Greek pensioners and have not been given. Here is the European Union competition report, which examines the compliance of our country with the requirements of the memorandums. On page 29 it is revealed - because you do not give this information - that we owe EUR 1.37 billion for pensions. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Theocharis (Haris) Theocharis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So you come with the ministerial decision of June 2018 and set a new schedule for payment until June 2018. Of course, in this timetable, the European Union is coming to put new data on you. What are these new data? Now the FBI owes half the money to give it from his own corvana. The general government budget will therefore be charged. Only 50% will be provided by our lenders. That is why we are losing too many millions of money. What else are you doing? Of course, what you told us about the issues of the so-called efficiency incentive, what the Greek people say swiftly. He says it quickly because the motive for performance is permanent. It is not an emergency, it is not something that is given just for a few months to be able to give a solution. There are no objections to performance incentives. But the extraordinary motives for performance are simply given because structures, organisation, mode of operation, have failed, there is a strategic plan for people to do their job. And when it is such a burden of work, and so is the irrationality and duplication that the administration is forced to motivate employees to do their job, then the reasons for failure are obvious. Finally, the matters in the register are important. You said earlier to Mr Constantopoulos that he is not a lawyer. So I'll tell you, I've studied IT, and I understand the issues of registries very well. They are not unresolved issues, Minister. It's not matters they can take months. Now you've been in a good time and you're being judged. These issues should have been raised at least in a row, there should have been the plan. I'm not telling you to solve it. As I have said, however, the documents I have submitted do not even have the plan. EFKA is afflicting all Greek citizens. I'm leaving the unbearable contributions behind. That's not what I'm talking about. I am talking about the irrationality, about the sloppiness the Greek citizen experiences.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u79	Mr. Theochari, you've been over time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u80	At last, put or press for these strategic plans to come in.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u81	Thank you very much. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u82	Mr. Theochari, you have also taken the difficult path of evil. Is there finally going to be a path of virtue in here? You come to me and you talk to me about a document that does not exist from the administrative point of view. You're saying the suggestion from the FBI administration says there's no plan. So I am telling you, from this responsible position, from which I always speak that this is not a letter of recommendation from the administration of the ECA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u83	How isn't there? I testified to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u84	I saw it. So do not invoke things that do not exist. It is indeed a document. It is someone who may have had thoughts. It's not an FBI management document as you said before. So first let us restore the truth. Let me tell you, since you are a man of Informatics, as you said, that 28.8 million records of insured persons in Greece would have to be cleared to get to normalisation and cleanliness of one registry, which is true and has no problems, which led to the grant of pensions to the dead, the grant of benefits to people who were not entitled. The work we are doing at this time of unification, everyone admits, is a very complex project. You should also share these findings that foreigners have made. They gave the credit to our efforts. At least for the national Parliament to be given by the Members of the National Representation for the Greeks who are struggling to carry out such a huge task. From 28.8 million we have reached 15 million final records. We had a failure in the first phase of 4.5% of the total errors and we have reached one millimetre. You think we'll set a row. This is not just progress. It's almost complete of this series that didn't exist so many decades ago. That is, indeed, a result on which it is worth congratulating those who have done that result. It'll keep going. Regarding pensions, I would like to say to you: The pensions received in January 2015 were about sixty thousand five hundred. You who are in IT understand the numbers. So it was a hundred and sixty thousand five hundred of the outstanding pensions in 2015 and we gave two hundred seventeen thousand a year. So it's not just the sixty thousand or the sixty thousand. Last month was a hundred thirty thousand. The commander of the FBI spoke of sixty thousand with seventy thousand who were given during the first period of the year. He wasn't talking about the whole thing. But you realise that while we give pensions, new ones are added. The next period will give pensions at a rate of about twenty thousand each month. We are therefore organising the decommissioning mechanisms in general, because having fourteen employees, eight thousand three hundred, is not insignificant. You need to see how you can make maximum use of your possibilities. That's what you're gonna do. And that's what we do and organize afternoon shifts and weekends. And we will give this world the corresponding reward for the work it will do. What can we do now? What else can we do in these circumstances? We said that there are eight thousand three hundred people - not all of them in pensions, as other jobs are being done - to cover the work of fourteen thousand - and more - employees who were before. So there is no other way, Mr. Theocharis, and you must agree and say at last: 'Yes, we must help people get their pensions that they waited for and four and five years to take'. We have to do this. We all owe it. It is a national obligation and a social need. Thank you. Mr President, it is my turn to congratulate you and wish you well in your new position.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u85	Thank you very much. And thank you for having had your kindness today to come over the four questions concerning your ministry. We move on to the following two topical questions, which will be answered by the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Evangelos Apostlelos. It will now be discussed the third with number 1215/11-7-2017, a topical question by MP Serres of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DMAR M.M.Michael Jelegis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Presenters Metro 6.1 "The Installation of Young Farmers" of PAA 2014-2020. Please, Mr. Jelloney, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to wish you every success in your work. Minister, early in July, following the evaluation carried out to the young farmers concerned to join the "Programme 6.1" of the Rural Development Programme, the tables for beneficiaries, potential beneficiaries, were published for those involved and rejected. The interest and participation of young farmers in joining this programme, which is the only instrument for financing young farmers to settle in agricultural production, was great. We pointed it out. However, we can see from the lists that much of the young farmers concerned have to join this programme - in fact, one out of three of those who have shown interest - stay out of hand. When we talk about the perpetrators, we are talking about those who, according to the Ministry's announcement, were given the specific moleculosis to join, but not enough funding, the funds, which were allocated by the Ministry to the regions. In fact, I should like to mention the following: in the region of Central Macedonia, the beneficiaries were two thousand sixty-three and the tenants of a thousand-four In Thessaly, a thousand three hundred forty-two beneficiaries, four hundred forty-two people. In western Greece, a thousand two hundred ten beneficiaries, four hundred twenty-eight persons. Accordingly, in Crete, the beneficiaries were a thousand hundred and ninety eight and the tenants four hundred fifty one. In my prefecture, in Serres Prefecture, a dynamic agricultural prefecture where it is admittedly necessary to incorporate young farmers into the age of farmers, the beneficiaries were four hundred twenty-four beneficiaries - eighty-one potential - and two hundred and twenty-two perpetrators. You understand the importance of this important measure, Minister, and I really hope and hope that you will find a solution: Firstly, with the overcompensation you have in relation to 110% of the original amount, which is about 24 million, how will this money be distributed and when? If one-third of those left out are covered here, what about the remaining two-thirds of the young farmers who cannot join this measure because of the lack of funding? Also, what action do you intend to take to ensure that no young person who wants and wishes to join this programme is lost? On the other hand, we must take into account - and I close, Mr President - that if these young farmers who now want to enter the production process, making this application, they will unfortunately not be able to re-use the right to join a new notice of the programme of young farmers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. Jelloney. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u88	First of all, Mr President, I wish you a good start in the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u89	Thank you very much. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u90	Mr Colleague, you know that we have a good cooperation with regional self-government. We have already given them 37.4% of the resources of the Rural Development Programme, namely to manage 1.75 billion with us, of course. The breakdown by region of the appropriations for the specific sub-measure of the installation of young farmers was therefore made after a wide consultation of regional authorities and we accepted the proposals themselves. We have used criteria which have been and have not only been limited to the size of the gross value added in the primary sector, but we have also assessed other criteria, such as the contribution to employment, the importance of livestock farming in a region, expressed in terms of the size of livestock, age structure, the percentage of farmers under thirty-five years in relation to farmers over fifty years, the potential eligible areas, the demand observed in terms of the absorption rate from each region. It was a set of criteria, that is to say, in order to reach a distribution of 241 million - the whole amount we have been calling for - in fact ten thousand eight hundred farmers plus a thousand two hundred from overcompensation. Of the thirteen regions, the seven regions do not have any entrants and accounted for about 30 million. Given that the invitation made to the public was the first for this sub-measure and, in particular, the first year of implementation of the Rural Development Programme, we should not undermine the effort of each region to eliminate the scope for integration of young farmers. In other words, we have agreed with regional government that there will be a new invitation to the seven regions concerned and that the basic criteria will be reduced to include more. Will everyone join us? The forecasts are that we will not all be inclined to have a surplus of money. But I would like to make it clear that these people who are around three thousand and fifty - including your own - will be given every opportunity through the overcompensation that you mentioned, but firstly we safeguard the right of regions where - as I have said before - the call will be made. You can be sure, then, that in the overcompensation of 10%, a large percentage will be included. Of course, in my dentext I will tell you other ways of looking for resources, so that we can close this part in time, but we can move on to the relevant moves.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u91	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Jeleigh, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, during the period of the economic crisis it is known that the primary sector can play an important role in the economic development of the country. You stressed here that the distribution was made in line with what you consulted with the regions. Here I have letters from Mr. Agorastos, Mr. Thessaly Regional Administrator, and from Mr. Katsifara, Regional Administrator of Western Macedonia and from Central Macedonia, where the regional authorities ask you to find a way together so that these young people who wish to join the programme of young farmers in rural production do not stay out. On the other hand, you also know very well that these young farmers who have made the proposal to join this measure have invested time and money in the above programme, in scholars to draft their files and, on the other hand, they have submitted a statement to the ELGA, in view of the fact that they have the moleculosis - because they knew about what moleculosis they had - they could practice the agricultural profession. Unfortunately, today injustice comes and drowns them, because they see that young farmers in other regions, with less moleculosis than they, have joined and are left out. I had stressed since 2-2-2017 that you should not be content with the overcompensation of 10% and I had told you to proceed to overcompensation of 20%. You could have done it because there was an interest in the great participation. The problems of unemployment are well known in the region, in police and in the perspective, on the other hand, which our young people see in the field of agriculture. I also stressed that there will be unsolved funds left in regions. Now you've been reopening these districts. At least now and after you have reappointed, if these funds are not used up, transfer them to the regions where, indeed, there is great interest - they are rural areas, they have a history and tradition in relation to the agricultural profession - so that all these farmers, who are left out at this point in time, can be covered. I think you too understand the necessity at the moment to find a solution so that neither one of the young people involved who wish to join this measure 6.1 of young farmers will be left out. Collaborate with the regions, with the district managers, you are transferring funds from other actions, because you understand too - because you too believe in the age-long renewal that the country's rural population must have, when only 5.5% are under the age of thirty-five years - the importance of finding a solution to the problem, so that all those involved in this measure can join. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. Jelloney. Please, Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u94	Mr President, the route we would have followed had agreed with the Committee of the Regions. From there on, there would be regions that would not be absorbed, which is an issue that has arisen. Of course we cannot do any differently - we must reopen the procedure - because there are new farmers who want to join, the regional authorities themselves are insisting. But it's something we can't undo. From there on there is the amount of overcompensation. At the same time, however, I would say that making overcompensation is not just left to the young farmers. Tomorrow, tomorrow, we have the improvement plans. In fact, there was a delay in calling for improvement plans to complete the integration procedures for young farmers. In other words, there was a delay around two months because of the information system. But it is no time to open this debate. With regard to overcompensation - not only for young farmers - the improvement plans, the nitrates, all of which are of interest, I would say, especially for young farmers, that we believe we will cover them to a very large extent. At this point it is inappropriate to commit ourselves to something that will emerge along the way. We see that there is a possibility for all those involved to be covered. So at the end of July, at the end of July, because the 70% procedure has been completed, the first payments will be made. As far as the need to address the major problem of integration is concerned, I think we are in agreement. It's a very serious matter. But, Mr President, we must be honest with each other. The whole management of the programme for the integration of young farmers, which has been carried out so far, finally, where did it end up? Of the ten farmers, the two remained active at most. The other eight were gone. So can we agree that we will monitor this process and strengthen them? For example, we said in Kosani the following day: in a hundred farmers in the area that are part of the programme, we can give them the possibility of entering the aromatic farming plan, giving them land, that is to say, to create the conditions for them to remain permanently. From that point on, we will deal with it in good faith.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u95	Thank you very much to the Minister for his reply. Parliamentarian Castoria of the New Republic, Maria Antonio, seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad for personal reasons for the period from 23 July to 25 July 2017. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u96	The House therefore approved the requested permission. At this point I will read the timely questions which will not be discussed. The first, with number 1225-17-2017, timely question for the first cycle of MP Xanthi of the Radical Left Coalition, Gregorios Stoyannides, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "Protection of workers and active measures in the event of arrears of wages", will not be discussed due to the absence of the relevant Minister, Mrs Ahtsoglou, abroad. The fifth question, under No 1250/18-7-2017, of the second question of the Greek Communist Party, Mr Ioannis Delis, Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the unfair loss of the worker in the company "KARYPIDIS" and the tragic situation of thousands of workers in this company and elsewhere, will not be discussed due to the absence of the relevant Minister, Mrs Ahtsoglou, abroad. The thirteenth question under number 1212/11-7-2017 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Mr.Ioannis Delis, on the subject: "Intensive problem with drinking water in many villages of the Municipality of Mykes in the Regional Unit of Xanthi", will not be discussed after consultation with the Minister and the MP. The second question by number 5573/11-5-2017 question by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Construction of the Provincial Road Paraleps - Tripotama", will not be discussed due to lack of competence. The Ministry of Transport and Communications is responsible. The second question under number 1242/18-7-2017 of the New Democracy MP, Maximos Charakopoulos, on the subject: "Public and private buildings that are occupied - hide official elements - actions to liberate them", will not be discussed due to the misappropriate obligations of the Deputy Minister of Home Affairs, Nikolaos Toska and will be redefined as provided for in the Rules of Procedure. The ninth, under number 1183/7-7-2017, topical question of the second Athens of the People's League - Golden Dawn, Eleni Zaroulia to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Continued terrorist attacks against MMs from para-state elements", will not be discussed due to the unsettled obligations of the Deputy Minister of the Interior, Mr. Nicholas Toska, and will be redefined as provided for in the Rules of Procedure. The tenth under number 1179/6-7-2017, a topical question from the Deputy Minister of Interior of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Paraskevi Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Interior, on the protection and safety of the people of Acharnes, will not be discussed due to the unsettled obligations of the Deputy Minister of Interior Mr. Nicholas Toska and will be redefined as provided for in the Regulation. Eleventh, under number 1184/7-7-2017, a topical question for the second cycle of MP for the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Antonio Gregos to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: “The desecration of the sacred monument of the Unknown Soldier as a result of continuous impunity”, will not be discussed due to the misappropriated obligations of the Deputy Minister of Interior Mr. Nicholas Toska and will be redefined, as provided for in the Rules. The twelfth, with number 1190/11-7-2017, a top question for the second question of the MP Drama of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Christos Karagiannidis to the Minister of the Interior, on the action of the unscrupulous maian nationalists and the "Combat 18 Hellas" in Menidios, will not be discussed due to the misappropriated obligations of the Deputy Minister of the Interior, Nicholas Toska, and will be redefined as provided for in the Rules of Procedure. The fifth, with No. 1248/18-7-2017, top-level question by the Member of Parliament, Lesvos, of the Communist Party of Greece, Stavros Tassos, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "To take immediate measures to compensate for the immediate damage caused to seismopaths and the damage to Lesvos", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister, Mr. Spring. Cause of a workload. The fourth question under number 1249/18-7-2017 of the Achaias Parliamentary Party of the Communist Party of Greece Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Direct connection of the Gadoura dam with the Rhodes water network", will not be discussed due to an obstruction of the Minister, Mr. Spritzis. Cause of a workload. The eighth Question No 1114/29-6-2017, published in the Official Journal of the European Communities in the Official Journal of the European Communities, in the Official Journal of the European Communities, in the Official Journal of the European Communities: "The creation of three new toll stations on the Promahona road axis - Serres - Port of Thessaloniki is disastrous for the Prefecture of Serres", will not be discussed due to an impediment of the Minister. Cause of a workload. The fourth under No 1223/14-7-2017 topical question for the first cycle of the Athens MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Helen Zaroulia to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "The World Bank "characterizes" the Aegean in Turkey, will not be discussed due to the miserable obligations of the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr. Ioannis Amanatidis. The seventh under number 1112/28-6-2017 topical question by the MP for the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas to the Minister for Administrative Reconstruction, on the subject: “The digital signature will be applied as of July 1, 2017;” will not be discussed due to the misappropriated obligations of Minister Olga Gerovasili. Finally, the first question by No 5388/4-5-2017, by MP Achaias, New Democracy, Isona Fotilla, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "The excavations in Ancient Eliaki will be improved this year;" will not be discussed due to an illness of the Minister of Culture and Sport, Mr. Lydias Konordos. We move on to the debate of the sixth under No 1218/12/2017 on a topical question by the Independent MEP II of Athens Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on "The need for a direct settlement of the red agricultural loans". Mr. Carras, you have the floor for two minutes to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u97	Mr President, first of all, I wish you success in your high position. I wish the best.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u98	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u99	With regard to the timely question I would like to say: I had tabled a question to the Ministers responsible for Economy, Economic and Rural Development, Mr Apostleou, and asked for information on the question of whether the so-called red agricultural loans managed by the liquidator of the former ATE Bank will be settled. The latter, in fact, was given a wide-ranging publicity that sends outwards in all directions, claiming claims that were inactive before 2012. This, in fact, had the distinctive title in the newspapers, "Order code from stanna in stanna". I read the following day the answer of the liquidator of the Agricultural Bank, a company essentially multinational, which said: "I will apply the provisions imposed by the Bank of Greece". At the same time, I have also sought the views of Minister Apostolos and I have seen that there is a legislative gap, in that the answer given by the liquidator refers exclusively to the provisions of the Bank of Greece, which do not allow the reduction of capital and conditionality only. At the same time, the extrajudicial mechanism which has recently been passed on to self-employed farmers, who do not have the trade status, cannot be applied. They should therefore be companies or employ the holding through third parties. I am therefore addressing the Minister, asking two questions: Is it the government's intention to legislate by analogy? And I am referring to the extrajudicial resolution, Mr President. Because if they are to appeal to the law of Katseli, as I have been given another answer from Mr Papadimitriou, I think we will be opening a endless cycle of judicial disputes with half of Greece, and we will not really solve the problem. So the question to Mr Apostle is: Does the government intend to legislate on a regulation that relieves these people? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would very much like your tolerance, Mr President. And there is also a second question about something that misunderstood me: I read statements - and I heard them at the ERT - that you are considering segregating the property of farmers, debtors, into urban, which will obviously take the road to the divestment by means of forced execution, and to the agricultural sector, by transferring it to "PTIAGE S.A.". - it is a public limited company set up a year ago, which I do not even know if it works - so that the agricultural land will then be granted in return - where I am saying it wrong, to correct me, but I have the statements - to farmers to cultivate it. To conclude, Mr President, it reminded me of a sense that I have forgotten: the plight of the 19th century. Is that what the government wants to do? And what's the murmurmuring? You know that, Mr. Apostleu. It's the necklace. So these are my questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u100	Thank you very much Mr. Carras. Please, Mr Minister, you have the floor for your reply. No "From stanna to stanna". But it's going to reach the new one, too. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u101	First of all, I would like to thank the honourable Member for the question. I was expecting her, I wanted to ask her, because this is a very serious matter. So, Mr President, I would like some time. Far from us the thoughts of restoring conditions of the 18th and 19th century. In order to approach the issue, we must see it at least from the day of the separation of the Agricultural Bank and good and bad.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u102	Permission is called.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u103	You know in August 2012, with three FEKs that had a second distance from each other, it was decided to separate and at the same time transfer the good to a specific banking institution and the bad one to the clearer. The amount of the loans by private farmers to the ATE under special liquidation at that time amounted to EUR 829 million. These amounts today are EUR 1.2 billion and represent forty thousand believers. Of these loans, seven thousand six hundred are covered by the public guarantee. And they refer to 120 million euros. These faithful ones, despite the disturbances in the liquidation that have occurred, have not responded and I am not telling you that they can respond. If not the total, the maximum majority cannot respond due to objective difficulties. However, the liquidation must, in accordance with the law, initiate the procedures provided for by the law, setting the basic objective from there on, to ensure the requirements. So don't go any further than that. At least the agreement I've made with the clearer had this goal. Therefore, the mission of an external court was necessary to ensure the liquidation of the Greek State's guarantees. Because if it is five years from the start of the delay in the guaranteed loan, there will be a problem to cover the public guarantee. In these actions of liquidation, certain debtors have the possibility of seeking, through the extrajudicial compromise, a favourable reduction and a regulation of their debt, provided that the electronic platform opens the request to the Special Secretariat for the Management of Private Debts. The others will soon be able to settle their debts under the same conditions as the extrajudicial compromise. It is a process that has not been completed, but even if this is not possible, we will also consider the legal regulation of the ODR. We've already set up the agency, we've never gone any further. However, these are issues which are particularly relevant to the protection, I would say, of the property linked to rural activity. We already in the bill, a bill from our Ministry concerning the compulsory registration of the country of origin of the raw material, especially in dairy and meat products, have already prepared an amendment to that effect and will come within the days to the Committee on Production and Trade to put this body in operation. However, before I reply specifically to the part concerning the red loans you mentioned in your question, we should definitely do a mapping of these red loans that are found in the clearer. I am just going to say that the good bank is all debts that have been transferred to a specific banking institution, but also in general the debts of rural space to banking institutions are around 2.5 billion, and 20% of these are due, that is, a percentage, I would say, which, in relation to what is happening in the rest of our country's production activity, is lower, less than what is being done in the rest of the production activity. In my dentistry, I will tell you exactly what is going on in the other part which you, too, have tabled in your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u104	Mr. Carras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u105	Will the Minister mention in his dentext to the DIAGE, which is my second question? Because so far I haven't received an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u106	No, I told you about the DIAGI that legislation is coming within the days, which generally specialises in the role and activity.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u107	Yes, sir. Of course, Mr President, I must say that the liquidator's action, which was to guarantee the Greek State's guarantees, does not help the situation because it converts the five-year limitation by the mission of the outsiders, who are a legal act of nuisance, into a ten-year period. As long as any regulation is delayed, the clearer should charge interest, interest, costs and burden the farmer's debt. I would like to remind you that these debts, Minister, which have been transferred to the clearer, are before 2012. Therefore, all this time there is no adjustment, apparently appear in the balance sheet enlarged, multiples of the original. It must be taken into account. A second issue to be considered is the conditions of these debts before 2012. The economic crisis, which today makes it impossible to serve them by farmers, has not yet taken place. We have to accept that. So the notion of the extrajudicial mechanism for the red loans of non-commercial farmers is not enough. And why am I saying that? A POL Circular by Mrs Papanatsiou was published the day before yesterday, which restores the question of the non-enhancement of a public position. If we apply a similar mechanism to the extrajudicial system, we should refer to the Civil Procedure provisions, make the ranking table and the public, which, due to the guarantees, seeks the greatest amount and cannot go below a threshold set by the Civil Procedure. We cannot thus serve the situation in favour of farmers. So the proposal which I believe should be made is to abandon the extrajudicial mechanism and, with an autonomous legislative arrangement, to give the opportunity, why? I'll remind you of something. The bank that acquired the good part of the Agricultural Bank was subsidized by the Greek State with 7.5 billion, on this night you say about the three FEKs, Minister. When you say that on one night three FEKs were issued, this morning 7.5 billion had been transferred from the Financial Stability Fund (FSF) to the bank that acquired the good piece, supposedly to strengthen its capital needs due to the transfer of new data. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, it is worth what I say and you will allow me to continue. These 7.5 billion - and I will submit the relevant document - which came from the lending of the Greek people, was a memorandum money, it was money of the CFS that the institutions had granted. That's what the good bank got. So the clearer is currently seeking one thing and that is what you need to solve. What's that? That with the provisions of the Bank of Greece - I will deposit them - it is not possible to reduce the capital and it is not possible to reduce the loan in general, unless it is a one-off payment. What farmer can pay a single payment? So what the government has to deal with is perhaps with social and economic criteria to save agricultural production. We should not stand by the guarantees of the Greek state. He has given too much to the Greek state, he has given too much to the bank that acquired this piece. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Georgios-Dimitrios Karras, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Secondly, there is one issue - and I refer to you too, Mr President - of recovery. Here is the aim of recovering, through the clearer, the money provided by the CFS to recover it from the Greek State. So you understand what a cylon is gonna open. And as for what you say, Minister, about the FOD - which I did not receive an answer - and perhaps this is why traceability is a secondary issue at the moment in the matter I am discussing - it is being sought through recovery to satisfy the Financial Stability Fund because it is controlled by the institutions. And I will mention a third of the major issues: the Financial Stability Fund will have to give them to the CEC (Deposit guarantee fund) this money they will receive from farmers. I believe that a great deal of money has been given to both the HFSF and the TEC, so that we do not have to get to the last Greek citizen, the farmer, who is now seeing that agricultural production is being put at risk. I'll say one last thing to fill in my thoughts. I have heard opinions, Minister - not yours, there have been press releases and announcements from the Ministry - that a 2004 law will be brought back, which abolished the banners, i.e. interest on interest I do not know if it is in the Ministry's intentions. I'm saying what I've read. He abolished the frosts then, in 2004. So I want to say this. Other conditions of 2004 and other conditions of agricultural production and farmers in 2017. This law cannot solve the problem of farmers without deleting all interests and a significant part of the capital, it wants a brave government decision. Thank you for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. Carras. Please, Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u109	Mr President, it is not only about the intentions but also about the possibilities of the Ministry of Rural Development to go into the interbanks and arrangements. Just what do we want? We want this particular agricultural property, which is supposed to be and has actually been in the process of liquidation, of getting away with it, that is to say, staying in the rural area. We do not want the minimum agricultural production to be killed at this time. We need a great deal as a country to produce. That is why our intervention, of course, cannot escape the debts. You know, too, that we are talking about debts which exceed 2.5 billion, due as a whole, from the way in which the transfer took place and any legislation that has to be linked in fact to some sustainability, there is no way that it will be served by at least these activities, institutions, cooperatives, individuals who have entered into this process. We say this very simple: 2.5 billion is the debt of some 1 billion more is public debt, VAT, various debts to insurance funds. We therefore need to see how we can stop this process of liquidation by tabling the proposal, which we are working on, separating the mortgaged property into urban and rural areas. We cannot, as a ministry, deal with urban property issues. I'm not saying go to the clearing process, auctions. But that is not our responsibility, it is the clearer's competence, it is the Ministry of Finance. We want the use of this property to be given to us in the mortgaged agricultural property. We have an organization, the DDIAGE, which we have now built and we are trying to set it up and which, at the moment, has almost completed the recording of the public's agricultural property. Because we are talking, Mr Colleague, of offended land, property, etc. All of this we're trying to bring it to a timeline, to know exactly what we've got. A lot of issues, particularly the promotion of young farmers, the concession of areas for feedingstuffs, are issues that we want to serve through this process. And because, in fact, this agency will grant uses of real estate in rural land, in order to continue the activity, we say quite simply that we should be granted the use of these and not enter the liquidation process, the auctioning process, because prices will be too small, but at the same time, I would say, an agricultural property that the rural area wants. So it is a question of those who have problems of this kind, but who continue to operate at this time, that they continue to operate without having the backdrop of serving these obligations. If we cannot, having managed the use of these lands, seek new farmers and new cooperative schemes - by closing down what I said at the beginning - so that neither a single acre nor a square is lost from this particular agricultural property, because they are in absolute need of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u110	Thank you very much for your reply, Minister. In addition, I would like to say, Mr Carras, about your information - because I have it, as you know - that the Agricultural Bank had a loss from the PSI total of 4.123 000 000. Only the Rural One. He had 5.3 billion government bonds and with haircuts he lost 4.1 billion. The rest were the recapitalisation, which was losses of the PSI to Piraeus Bank as a whole. In other words, nothing has happened about the agricultural, the bad bank. Only the rural community has lost 4.1 billion from the PSI. I'm talking about the Minutes. It's all registered to the Bank of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u111	Mr President, you will allow me...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u112	Okay, although it's not provided for in the Rules of Procedure, because we're closing, you have the floor, Mr. Carras.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u113	There is a budget line of 7.5 billion, which was transferred to the night of the division of the bank, which is not linked to either the bond haircut or anything else. I filed the item officially from the Financial Stability Fund. These aren't connected.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u114	Thank you very much. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-20-S1-commons.u115	With the consent of the House at 11.20 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday morning and 9.30 seconds for the work of the House, parliamentary scrutiny: discussion and decision-making, in accordance with Articles 68(2) of the Constitution and 144 et seq. the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, on the proposal put forward by the Chief of Staff and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the Members of his party, on the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry, on the investigation of the involvement of the Minister of National Defence Mr Panos Kammenos and other officials and officials in an pending judicial case, in accordance with the special agenda distributed.
