ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-16-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to announce to the House the issue of Monday 19 June 2017. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 990/12-2017 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Triantafylides, to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "First Camp Kodra Kalamarias - East Thessaloniki: Showing the area in an ultra-local park". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 987/9-6-2017 by MP Arta, New Democracy, George Stylios, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Following school units of mountainous, remote and island regions". 3. The question asked by MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Understood and illegal discrimination between candidates for Partners of Educational Personnel (EPC) in notices of the Greek Open University (EPC)". 4. The Question by MP Halkidiki of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Save Vlachos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Missures of ambulances in the Halkidiki Prefecture put the lives of citizens at risk". 5. The question under number 1023-13-6-2017 by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs concerning the non- abolition or suspension of the 12th Municipal School of Thessaloniki. 6. The question asked by Mr Ioannis Saridis on the inclusion of the vaccine against meningococcal type B serogroup B in the National Vaccine System. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Carditsa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Chrysula Katsavra - Siropoulou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The institution and functioning of school libraries". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under number 988/9-6/2017, a topical question by MP Chios of the New Democracy, Mr. South Mitarakis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Is the abolition of the reduced rate of VAT on the islands of the North and Eastern Aegean definitively applicable?". 3. The Question No 1005/12-6/2017 by Independent MEP Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Will the surnames be paid?" 4. Mr. Andreas Loverdos (Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights) asked the President-in-Office of the Republic of Athens about the co-responsibility of children. 5. The current question by No 923/1-6/2017 of the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on "Following the Order of the Nation". 6. By No 929/2-6-2017 a timely question from MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance about the theft of electricity. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. Mr George Amyras, Member of the Commission, on the subject of the 'Siemens' case under number 931/2-6-2017. 8. The question by No 942-6-2017 of the New Democracy MP, Christou Boukorou, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Dramatic the situation in the Second Pathological Clinic Volos". 9. Under number 943/6-2017, a topical question by the Member of Parliament for the Flemish Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas to the Minister of Health, on "Is there finally a national and regional strategy for the development of medical tourism?". 10. The question by number 924/1-6/2017 of MP II Athens of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Helen Zaroulia to the Minister of Finance regarding the appointment of a judge to the administration of the Supreme Court. 11. The question by No 948/6-2017 of the Greek Communist Party MEP, Athanasios Vardalis, about the Greek Vehicle Industry "ELVOABE". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 4421/23-2017 of the First Vice-President of the Parliament and MP of Athens, New Democracy. Nikita Kaklamanis, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, about the provision of a special ticket for students who are studying through examinations for a second degree, as well as for the students of the PSC. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Before we begin, I will announce the questions which will not be discussed as a result of an impediment to the competent ministers and which will be redefined for discussion. The second, with number 985-9-6-2017, timely question by MP Halkidiki of New Democracy Mr. George Vagionas to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: “The threat of a bandage for thousands of bakery”, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development Mr. Haritsis on the grounds of unsuccessful obligations. The second question under number 925/1-6/2017 is the second question of the Evia Parliamentary of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Nikolaos Michou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The installation of two hundred nine new wind turbines in southern Karusia, Evia, threatens biodiversity and economy", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Socrates Famelou. We shall now proceed to the topical and urgent questions that will be discussed today. There will be five questions to which Mr Stathakis will answer, to which he is present. The first question will be discussed now under number 1019/13-6-2017 in the first cycle of the Member of the Dodecanese Parliament of the Radical Left Coalition, Ilia Kamaterou, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject of "Spatial Travel Tourism". Mr. Katameros has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-16-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank God you didn't come to the House because I called you. You have several questions, from what I can see, from the opposition. It is good to have one of us, too, for spatial tourism. Although I concentrate on the question of spatial tourism, you know very well that there are problems in general with the lack of spatial planning and that makes this even more important. To be more specific, we have two decisions of the Council of State - I do not mention the names for a time economy, you have them - which cancel and the spatial planning that existed in 2013 and the spatial planning that existed since 2009. Not that this is necessarily bad, because in these rural areas we were integrated and did not anticipate development for the benefit of local communities. Spatial planning is a basic tool, Minister - you know that very well - for the model of development that we need to follow. Right now what model has been formed in our country? You know very well that there was a perforated institutional framework, so that the previous ones could move in as they wanted and approve what they wanted to do to everyone they wanted. This resulted in unregulated growth, elsewhere saturation, elsewhere underdevelopment, without respect for the environment, with unequal distribution, etc. So what do we have? A model that we are serving, paying the people with the blood of infrastructure, major airports, large roads, biological cleansing, and destroying the beaches, while the ones who run the tourists massively. Local societies are suffering too. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The phenomenon is presented, while we have an increase in numbers, an increase in arrivals, local businesses suffer many of them to close. In particular, where all inclusive works very well, we know that as long as the weather passes the big part of the "pitty" takes it, these traffickers exploit everything, shape the prices as they want, especially in areas that are saturated and there is over-offer of beds. Why? Because the previous tourists only saw the development of the tourist beds, as I said before. We want to reverse this model. We want to make it fairer, we want fair growth, we want local societies to benefit, and an essential tool in this direction - you know it very well - is spatial planning. We've got a gap right now. Services don't know how to work. Everything is necessarily adopted, at the risk of the model that we want to correct is in danger of being inapplicable afterwards. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-16-S1-commons.u3	I will give the floor to the Minister, although a part of the question you have raised I think it is the responsibility of the Minister of Tourism and not of Mr Stathakis. But in any case, he's free to say what he thinks.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-16-S1-commons.u4	I said, Mr President, that this is a basic tool for spatial planning.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-16-S1-commons.u5	It is a serious matter, but it is a matter of its responsibilities. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-16-S1-commons.u6	I'm going to stand up to the question that concerns me. You know the story. The Special Spatial for Tourism was cancelled by the Council of State in 2015 and by a later decision number 519 in 2017, further clarifies the Council of State that the cancellation of the Special Spatial Taxation does not mean that the previous ones are reactivated. They are effectively canceled, all the specific landfills that existed before and after. It therefore calls on the administration to proceed with the preparation of a new regional planning plan for tourism. We so far, what we have done for training is that we have started the preparation procedures for the study of the new Special Spatial for tourism, in accordance with the provisions of Law 4447/2016, which is the general framework for the country's spatial planning. So we have created the file of the public study contract, as provided for in this 2016 law. We have ensured funding for the study and the technical specifications have already been adopted, and very soon, the Minister will be sent with the request for approval of the declaration and the documents of the tender in question. One part is that. This has been given, there is also a second framework, which covers this gap, to a large extent. And these are regional plans. They have been drawn up by all the regions. They've been filed with the RIS. Regional projects form a framework for guidelines. I repeat: they have been submitted and are expected to be made public by the end of July with our signature and will be the definitive regional framework, where there is an extensive framework for the location of tourist activities. These two are the data. I think that, on the one hand, we will have to fill the gaps with regional ones, and, secondly, we will be ready for the final proclamation of the new Spatial Session on Tourism.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-16-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Kamaterre, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-16-S1-commons.u8	Mr President, with your intervention, you are giving me the opportunity to say that - and I said at the beginning - spatial planning is a basic tool for tourism development and mainly affects the model of this development. And to make it understandable, I mean, I'm not out of the question because, for example, in saturated areas...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-16-S1-commons.u9	I didn't say you were out of the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-16-S1-commons.u10	You know what I mean. You got it. One example is: When growth is defined by the traffickers of mass tourism, they create in some areas over offering beds, so that they can download prices where they want to. We have areas like Dodecanese, Kos, and even in Rhodes that 10 euros have all inclusive in a five-star hotel. They control everything, they operate with all inclusive and the stores close. If we had a spatial plan, which would say that that is where so many beds are allowed or not allowed, because the area is saturated, you understand that we could avoid that. It's not the only tool, it's too much. That is why, because it is multifactorial, I would ask the Minister to take an initiative with the relevant ministries, even the CoR to deal with the issue, what is happening in general with the development model, which we want to define, after the developments we have and since last night, which seems to open a road, to go better and to be able to plan if we have a national strategy, that is where we need to see what is going on. Because all these spatial planning projects, which we are talking about, the tariff, the land register, which are also tools, Mr President, all take time and will be at the end of the programme. At the moment, however, they are running programs. The development law runs, the NSAs runs. Do you know that in areas I described before, new beds have been approved and subsidised, instead of going to infrastructure or to other forms of alternative tourism? There are examples, there are proposals and there are possibilities. My great concern, then, is what is going on in this transitional phase. And it is encouraging what the Minister said, that the regional frameworks will soon work. Up to now, however, the services - and I will remember that from the previous question I asked about aquaculture - do not take into account either these or the opinion of local government, and there I would expect more and more initiatives to be taken in order not to create such situations, which will then be irreversible and to undermine this development model, which we want, of fair growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-16-S1-commons.u11	Therefore, Minister, we are now waiting for an answer from you if, within the planned plans that you have said about spatial tourism, it can be included, as far as I can see, the dissemination of tourist development - so to speak - rather than the concentration in the places that you have said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-16-S1-commons.u12	More generally as design.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-16-S1-commons.u13	Yeah, that's what I'm saying. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-16-S1-commons.u14	We have voted for No 4447/2016, which is the general framework of spatial planning in the years to come. How's that law? Let's get this straight. First of all, spatial planning is designed by the municipalities. Secondly, there is the regional level, which brings together a framework for the whole region and under the Constitution the final decision is, of course, based on the constitutional requirement of the Central Ministry for the approval of these plans, for the modification or finalisation of these plans. Therefore, on the basis of the spirit of the legislator, most of the treatment of spatial planning goes to primary and secondary self-government, precisely because at this level there can be better management of the spatial problems of a region and, above all, the search for the necessary solutions. That's the direction. Towards this general framework, we have speeded up what you have said. Obviously, to make spatial planning and primary and periphery, etc., the tools are data. The forest maps, beaches, land registers and so on must be finalized. That is why the government has speeded up all these procedures in order to shape the framework, so that we can finally resolve an institutional void which has been in existence for decades and which I think is no longer appropriate for the country to have. We must go on the next day to spatial planning in order to ensure that the rules are complete, to create security for investment, small, medium-sized or large, and at the same time to have a strong environmental protection.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-16-S1-commons.u15	The third question will be discussed with number 973/6-2017 in the context of the second question by Hercules Iraklios of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR KEgeroglou Vassiliou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "To drastically reduce the excessive charges on PPC". Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-16-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it is a fact that consumers, businesses, domestic consumers and, of course, all forms of consumers receive bills of increased,'spirited', according to the commonly called, without being able to explain where this increase is coming from, which they have to pay. At the same time, of course, this increase in energy costs, without always dealing with energy itself, leads the weakest to the difficulty of meeting their obligations. What we are asking with today's question is whether the Ministry has studied the issue, which is due to the inflammation of the accounts, if there is any planning to deal with the amount and burdens of consumers, businesses and, of course, to see if you are considering a sustainable solution for what is due to PPC on the consumer side. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-16-S1-commons.u17	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-16-S1-commons.u18	First of all, I think we need to make it clear that for the first time, PPC's accounts illustrate what consumers pay. Four things consumers pay. First, the cost of production and the sales price of electricity, not only PPC now, but also of private producers. Secondly, the power transfer to the high voltage, that is, IPTO. Thirdly, the transport of electricity to the low voltage and to the consumer at home, the DEDEFOP, that is, fourthly, the OHIM. As a Cretan MP, you know that YOIs are financing the energy production costs of the islands, mainly Crete. The annual cost on average is EUR 500 million. This costs the cost of oil production, fuel oil etc., i.e. the exact source in the islands, Crete and the other islands of the country, which have autonomous production. And this cost, since the price is uniform, is transferred to all the consumers in the country. These are the great YMOs, which I repeat that of about 500 million, 450 million are our islands and 60-70 million are the so-called social invoice, which has been established for the protection of weaker groups. Now, with regard to the NGO - and this has opened a subject with the Energy Regulatory Authority - their pricing has so far been following the scale of electricity pricing. As you know, the power invoicing scale has the form of a stairs ladder. If you consume up to 1,500 kWh, you pay a certain value in the current, from 1,500 to 2,000 kWh another value from both 2,000 kWh and above another value etc. So there is a scalpel escalation based on a form of staircases, where the current value changes and lulls both NGOs and the other categories charged to the account. This problem in a year when we had an 8% increase in domestic consumption, due to the fact that winter was heavy, caused increases in domestic consumer tariffs, a phenomenon that was observed this year in winter. After that we have ordered the RAE as a government to study the issue of a more orderly consumption charge, so that these sharp changes, which occur as soon as you overcome a certain consumption, can normalise and become fairer and more linear. The RAE is doing this study and is committed to presenting it to us at the end of July, in order to address the problem of the YEOs more smoothly. I'm closing with the debts to PPC. Debts to PPC in the crisis have actually been launched in the past five, six years. We've reached 2.5 billion. PPC has made arrangements with which there has been a very positive response. The regulations concern not only domestic consumers, but also industry, large consumers and so on. As a protagonist, I mention the agreement we have reached with the help of the government, between PPC and Larco and many other large energy consumers. The central idea is simple. At this stage they have been set in one way or another about 1.1 billion to 1.2 billion of the 2.5 billion. 2,5 billion, of course, also includes companies that have closed down other categories of accounts. Of course, there is also a part of the strategic malpractices, which is PPC's primary concern. The government is ready to legislate what is necessary in order to ensure that strategic malpractices are the target and to restore to many remaining debts to PPC. The public - and I close with it - has taken very long steps. It has paid the bills to PPC and has paid up part of a significant part of the forecast consumption for 2017. It takes - and will continue to take - all measures so that the wider public sector does not owe PPC.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-16-S1-commons.u19	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-16-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you are the third year of government, the longest-lived Memorandum Government. So you can't always transfer responsibilities to the past, because you're the same ones now. This has to do with the previous question and with all the questions we put here in the House. So, in particular, on both issues, which you have actually agreed on as topics, you should see how they are dealt with together with the question of inflated accounts, which is a reality, without even a specific price increase, as you can assure us. I've got a series of articles, but also bills. We have different charges for own consumption. They may be parameters, so the study you said is needed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-16-S1-commons.u21	This can't be!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-16-S1-commons.u22	I would therefore say that, in the matter of inflated accounts, you should be clearer not only in terms of finding but also in terms of the solution. Is there a solution? There is. So this solution is to find it. I do not accept the indirect reproach, as you say it - that Cretans pay less than they should. Look, when there is a business, whether it is state or not, and if there is a different choice, that is, free competition, the customer will choose what is offered - I think - as cheaper and more qualitative. When there is a state function - and so far it is essentially the case - the company should ensure that it has cheap cost. So I will reverse the point: Is Crete responsible for the pollutants that PPC pays? No, of course not. So since Crete is not responsible for the pollutants it pays and you only say the one-sided one, that it is responsible for not having gone ahead with the cables and the interconnection, for example, or because no other ways have been found to produce energy at cheaper cost in Crete, this is not about consumers. Let us make this clear and agree that it is not about consumers. Of course, there is a question of the linking of the Cyclades which has been delayed very much. I think there has been a move - in 2014 for the first time - to go ahead with this project of interconnection, which is a concrete action. There is a freeze on the pipeline that is within the network that is heading towards Europe, the connection to Crete, and you need to see this how fast it can go. All of this is in the context of the moves that the state, PPC and all other stakeholders must make anyway, in order to have lower costs and to be able to reduce the bills. Because, as you said, it seems to be people's fault. It's not the fault of us to agree on that. So we want you to say: what about these two specific projects? What about the subject of the exam? Will this account have a write-down that came to him when he saw it increased about 15% without a formal increase? How can we deal with this situation? And of course, will you tell us whether from the 2.5 billion you have said, the 1.4 million that has not been regulated is inadmissible? So does it have to be deleted, do we not think that there is or can be collected, if there is a different policy, a different regulation on the part of PPC? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-16-S1-commons.u23	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-16-S1-commons.u24	I imagine you remember that I come from Crete, from Chania, so the concept of implying some reproach for the Cretans...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-16-S1-commons.u25	There is an issue between Chania and Heraklion. I guess you don't forget that, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-16-S1-commons.u26	I am therefore surprised that the production of the islands makes islands responsible. It's just the data. The NGOs are the ones I described. It is the most expensive cost of the islands, which is shared. There could be no other way to produce the islands in the past. Now the connections are made. We finished the first section in the Cyclades. There will be cables for the rest of the Cyclades islands and the two large programs designed for Crete are the link with the Peloponnese with a cable and the connection with Attica. That's it. Consumers are aware of this and therefore there is little reproach. It is the way in which the problem of energy production has been resolved at a different cost in an island country, which - I repeat - divides all the consumers. Now I come to PPC's collections and non-recovery. What is obviously more difficult to collect is the part - I do not remember exactly the number, I think it is about 400 million - which concerns businesses that have been closed down. There's no who's gonna pay those bills, they've been closed for years or anything else. All the other things, I repeat, are potentially collectible and the main objective is to identify and diversify consumers and businesses that are objectively inability to pay by strategic misappropriators. It is a policy to identify and increase PPC’s collection. PPC has hired consultants, as far as I know, to focus and study this subject. At the same time, the Ministry declares once again ready to legislate or support any conclusion considered to improve collection.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-16-S1-commons.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theory, after taking part in the 'Summer Democracy Workshop' educational programme, twenty-four students and students and a trainer from the 1st and 2nd Moschatos High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here are the fourth question under number 1024/13-2017, the first question of the Member of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Stavros Tassos, on the operation and development of the Institute for Geological and Mining Research (IGME) and the first question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation PASOK - DIMARKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKYKYKYGROGGloup of the cycle of petitions to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning the operation and development of the Institute for Geological and Mining Research (IGME). Questions refer to the same subject and will be discussed at the same time without affecting the rights of speakers in their speaking time, by applying the provision in paragraph 4 of Rule 131 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. This means that each colleague will have two and three minutes of protology and secondaryity and the Minister who will answer both of them, instead of three and three, will have six and six minutes. Mr. Tassos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-16-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the IGM is unadministrated after its resignation, and there is still no new appointment. The administration resigned after the commitment of all the IGM’s bank accounts for the implementation of final judicial decisions - appeal decisions - on the basis of an earlier irrevocable decision of the Ice Board on the non-payment of compensation to former employees of the Institute. The condition that has been formed is an IGM headless, who is unable to carry out even his contractual obligations. All the works of EGME for third parties have now stopped, for example, geothermality in Herculia Prefecture of Serres, research studies on road networks in Epirus, landslides in the Peloponnese, ChYTY Graphics, water supply of Saints Theodores, etc. It is also unable to participate in new research programmes. In other words, the condemnation of HGM to "death" with government responsibility. The problems in need of immediate resolution are as follows: Firstly, addressing the question of the management of the Institute, secondly, substantial support for the EAGGF budget, with immediate disbursement and exceptional aid, thirdly, recruitment of new permanent staff who have been approved and recommended by the Institute's administration, fourthly, approval of the research projects pending, fifthly, the work arrangements through the OMEF procedure, supported by the workers and the administration. The situation created by the SYRIZA government in EGME is not random and is not due to governmental frugality. The current government continues to be decisive in the work of the former governments, but at a faster rate. The real objective of this downgrading course is to facilitate the delivery of the country's mineral wealth to monopolistic groups on the basis of their profitability. The tool is the formation of national bodies with no possibilities of self-research for deposits, without the possibility of using the deposits independently, without even the possibility of participating in consortia. It is characteristic that the framework of the National Hydrocarbon Management Agency, which leads to the distribution of energy wealth to a handful of groups that will win the lion's share from the exploitation of the deposits without guaranteeing either the usual exchanges of support for domestic know-how, employment, scientific research, etc., or even the conditions of effective control of the Group's action, while the competition notice is based on data provided by international groups themselves, forming the most favourable framework of an agreement on their profitability. We therefore ask you, Minister, why you are delaying and how you intend to intervene immediately in the reopening of the EMGO by appointing a new administration and the immediate real regulation of the economic problems, which are in fact paralysing it, for the immediate payment of the employees who already have three months' pay, but also for the immediate payment of compensation to the beneficiaries on the basis of the final decisions of the courts.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-16-S1-commons.u29	In conclusion, Mr Colleague, why do you repeat them now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-16-S1-commons.u30	I shall conclude, Mr President. Also, how will you intervene for the effective registration of all the mineral resources of the country, including, in particular, the hydrocarbons on land and sea, a procedure that should precede any use of the deposits and the question of the essential staffing of the Institute with staff sufficient to cover all the needs of the polite exploitation of the country's mineral resources with full fixed work and wages, which meets the modern needs of the workers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-16-S1-commons.u31	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-16-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Sixty years have been known, and I will not go into detail. We now have an institution, a body which is trapped and because of the wrong government choices, but mainly because of the inaction shown by the government to deal with the problems that have arisen. It is without administration, has seized accounts, has obligations to third parties that it does not pay, has obligations to the workers themselves who are more than three months unpaid. The staff promised by Mr Lafazanis from the time that they were Minister and thus dozens of projects of the ESDP, which are under the responsibility of the IGM, have been on the air. We do not alibi the government because of the general capitalist system, the multinational groups, etc. It has no alibi and no excuse, because it could be justified because of the situation. It is the sole responsibility of the Ministry to address the problem of lack of administration, to proceed with the settlement of an agreement on the obligations provided for in irrevocable judicial decisions of up to 30 million, to pay the workers and, of course, to launch the possibility of implementing the projects in the air. Of course we are waiting for answers from the relevant Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-16-S1-commons.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after being informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House, twenty-two students and apprentices and three educational escorts from the British School of St. Catherine. The House welcomes them. Minister, you have the floor for six minutes to answer both colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-16-S1-commons.u34	Long before we give the solution, we need to find out what the problem is, Mr Kegeroglu. I am surprised that you do not know the problem of unpaid workers, delays and non-definition of administration. And I am surprised, Mr Tassos, that you also did not say what is the cause of all these phenomena. What are these court rulings? The truth is very simple. The pensioners of EGMM have turned against EGMM, judicially claiming the compensation of a pension package, which the IGM had with a private insurance company, which means that the pensioners of EGMM, in addition to the public pension they receive, had a special insurance and pension premium at the time of the coarse cows. Mr. Kegeroglu then handed them out, it looks like these insurance packages. This system had been paid 75% for some years, and 100% later. This is the stake: the public budget, the Greek taxpayers, are asked to pay 50m euros in order to satisfy a pension package, which has ended at a certain time and which instead of resolving in a way that concerned the limits of the insurance and pension package, that is to say, to turn pensioners against the National Insurance, and to get their share of it, they have turned against the state and think it is the time when such a problem can be resolved. So our answer is clear: No, there will be no regulation that will give Greek taxpayers money to a package of insurance with a private insurance company that created this problem. Now let's go to the next day. This given and since pensioners in court decisions have seized the EGM's accounts, first of all, the workers cannot be paid. Secondly, the previous administration immediately resigned. Thirdly, no administration goes to an agency that has confiscated accounts. You can imagine that, anyway. So the Ministry's proposal - and in this way we shall proceed - is as simple as it is. Act number one: the confiscation on the account with a legislative initiative, which we are committed to bringing by the end of June to the draft law on arbitrary and urban planning of our Ministry. At the end of June, workers will be paid for July. There goes one side. Second part: Once the amendment is tabled, the next day is the administration is determined on the part of the Ministry in order to restore the administration of the EGM and to mobilise the research programmes and all the others you have suggested. Thirdly, with regard to the dispute over the insurance package, which is an area - I repeat - which we do not intend to settle, we will find a solution that ensures the public interest.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-16-S1-commons.u35	Minister, because you suggested that private insurance was probably the fault - so I understood - it is good to hear the name, to hear what this private insurance is, to look after future customers, so I say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-16-S1-commons.u36	It's not the insurance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-16-S1-commons.u37	How not? That's how I figured it out.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-16-S1-commons.u38	Let me clarify that. It's been a time when there were so many such supplements, so...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-16-S1-commons.u39	I don't mean on the basis of the energy of insurance...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-16-S1-commons.u40	It's a problem of the 1990s. It's not a problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-16-S1-commons.u41	No, it is not now, but if this company is active and so treats customers, it is good that the Greek people know it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-16-S1-commons.u42	I repeat, it's not the insurance. It is a regulation which has taken a somewhat peculiar legal path and I do not want to say the details.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-16-S1-commons.u43	Okay, you don't want to say it. We're going back to the same circle. Here, Mr Tassos, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-16-S1-commons.u44	Minister, it's really interesting how you go over the problem. The insurance contract you're talking about wasn't an insurance contract, it was a state's pay obligation. At that time, with inflation of 20% and 25%, this state, which has continued, as you say yourself, instead of giving wage increases to the workers, made this special contract, in which the workers participated with 25%. Therefore, among other things, you have misled and the money paid by the workers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-16-S1-commons.u45	I'm surprised!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-16-S1-commons.u46	Don't be surprised, because that's reality! And stop pretending to be defenders of public interest. Do you take care of this with the fifty-six tax exemptions you give shipowners? Is that how you understand the public interest? This is the public interest for you, for the people to pay businessmen and workers to go out and defendants to the top, because they did not get what they deserve! You owe the workers, they don't owe the workers to you! The state owes the workers. Because I told you this was not a private deal, it was a state's obligation to raise wages. And instead of doing this, this deal was made with the insurance. So the insurance policy, which you accused, of course, we do not defend private insurance companies at all, in this case, compensated for the reserves of seven hundred workers. And now there are four hundred fifty left. Is that right? So that's money you owe the workers. You owe the workers. And the workers have been justified by the courts, unless for you court rulings are empty and you write them in the oldest of your shoes, whenever they don't interest you. There are, therefore, irrevocable judicial decisions which vindicate workers and you must pay them, because it is the obligation of the State to do so. They were not the ones who failed here, in this case the private insurance company was the State itself. You must therefore find a solution to this issue and find a solution immediately, beyond the appointment of a new administration, beyond the recruitment you have promised to do - and you have not done - the forty-five permanent ones that you have unleashed after the hundreds of thirty-seven that they need. And you know why you're doing all this? Because your goal is to give the country's mineral wealth to the hands of energy groups and businesses. And you want an IGM downgraded, an IGM who started with a thousand three hundred employees in 1999, went to the six hundred thirty, went to the four hundred in 2011, today it's ninety-six and you will end up with twenty, thirty employees, putting stamps. That's your target. This is how you serve the so-called'sustainable development'. Sustainable development - capitalist, of course - means cracked labour, wage and pension rights for workers are going to die for life. This is your capitalist development, the'sustainable' that you are evangelizing. That is why you sign your Memorandum, because you know very well that today the chapter to invest wants such conditions for workers: cracked wages, unscrupulous pensions and unscrupulous labour rights. That is, of course, what you are doing in this policy, and you are calling it a 'public interest defence policy'! Rejoice in such a policy!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-16-S1-commons.u47	Good. Mr Kegeroglu has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-16-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Stathakis is addressed to a public inspired by neoliberal views and, of course, he can blame us for having guaranteed rights to workers. But I am amazed - I will use the same expression - that does not know that these relate to pension packages, but to remuneration, by decision of the Ice Authority. Unless you do not respect justice's decisions, as part of the government does. So far, however, it has not been for him. Now it's about him? I shall table the decisions of the Ice Bay on this matter. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But it surprises me for one more reason. It is about what I said that it is already three years of government and it is the same past now. Isn't Mr. Stathakis aware that on behalf of Mr. Skourletis, 600 thousand euros were deposited and paid as the IGM had to do? Does he not know that on his own government 1,3 million euros were paid? What does that mean? Accepting the obligation to pay this money, which those people who worked at the HEME are entitled to. It has been accepted by the state both by these acts and by the acts on behalf of Mr Stathakis. It cannot now come to tell us that the taxpayers who paid for them have well paid them, now give us a new dimension, social automation, which he uses, 'I want to protect the taxpayers' - after he has torn apart by overtaxing, which he and the hundred and fifty three Members of Parliament have voted on - will put us in conflict and say 'the workers who are entitled to pay will not get what they are entitled to because you are taxing high, with high rates and above your capacity'. All that we have heard is an irresponsible policy on the part of the Ministry. Of course, there must be legislation. However, legislation must also include a clear timetable for the payment of the State's obligations to the workers, which is to do with the implementation of judicial decisions. If there were no judicial decisions, he could suggest anything. But today, given the existence of irreversible - not merely final - judicial decisions, he must table a timetable and include it in his regulation. Otherwise the regulation is lame, it only concerns the management issue - how to go further, how to smack the pencils further - and another judicial decision will then come, as it is understandable, which will insult the same regulation that will bring us here. By who? Of the beneficiaries. It is understandable that this will be done. And then blame the people who claim what they claim. It's not like that. It's the wrong way of dealing with the matter. Before you testify, Mr Stathakis, you must consult both the workers and anyone else you think you are doing a cross-party consultation, whatever you want, to resolve the matter. The 'Decision and order' which you have expressed today and the 'no, we will not fulfil the obligations' is unacceptable. For God's sake! I didn't expect it from you and it's because of character. Have you now adhered to such perceptions? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-16-S1-commons.u49	Mr. Stathakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-16-S1-commons.u50	IGME retired people get the public pension. Mr Kegeroglu, of course, and with the JRC, he says that we should pay EUR 200,000 only for private insurance. For the first time I have heard the JRC support private insurance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-16-S1-commons.u51	Leave that, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-16-S1-commons.u52	That's the reality, in a setting...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-16-S1-commons.u53	To pay for what you took, to sell the company...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-16-S1-commons.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister has heard you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-16-S1-commons.u55	It's not private. He sold it a week ago...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-16-S1-commons.u56	Mr Kegeroglu, nothing is written at all. The Minister listened to you with patience.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-16-S1-commons.u57	It's not private, Mr. President. He sold it a week ago, the government...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-16-S1-commons.u58	Please lower the tone of your voice, because first you don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-16-S1-commons.u59	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-16-S1-commons.u60	I didn't say it was personal. I'm talking about the operation of the House. He listened to you as a prisoner, let the minister say what he wants. It is not necessary to accept them. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-16-S1-commons.u61	I repeat that the pensioners of the UGM are integrated into the single pension scheme of the public and normally receive their pensions. This arrangement, which was then, at times when these things were taking place, did not involve wage increases. Inflation was not 25%. They were the supplementary extra pensions, which some - not all - offered to very few agencies then simple. Today, however, we are living a reality in which we all have to feel the sense of the measure. Therefore, as you have said, the money corresponding to this package has been exhausted - finitely was anyway - and the public, the budget and the taxpayer are now being called upon to pay such a level and a mere size. We are not going to go in that direction, I repeat for once. My statement is express. I've done it to the workers, I'm doing it to you. It's gonna be a solution. The IGM will upgrade, play its role, function. However, this issue will not be ratified by EUR 50 million from the public budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-16-S1-commons.u62	And we move on to the first with number 986/9-6-2017, a topical question by the Member of the Dodecanese Parliament, Emmanuel Konsolas to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning the abolition of the land registers of Rhodes and Kos. Mr. Consola, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-16-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to point out from the outset the willingness shown by the Minister to come to the National Representation to answer the current questions, which is inconsistent with the culture of other colleagues. It is therefore very important for us that Parliamentary Control is being conducted here at the National Representation and, indeed, on an issue that is very important with regard to our own question, which is related to a few days ago undergoing rumour, but now also to the public disclosure of a draft law in the media on the establishment of a legal person governed by public law on the register. The country's mortgages will also be brought to the company that implements the property register. Let me also refer to NAYTTERIC on this issue, which now means that it is common knowledge. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned reference, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] From there, I would like to ask you, Minister, as far as the draft law is concerned, to tell us whether you are aware of what will happen with regard to the Rhodes Stockbooks, Kos, Leros, that is, the unpaid and unpaid real estate registers, and what the fate of the workers will be. At the same time, let me inform you that this draft law came from your own decisions, without prior consultations with the lawyers of Rhodes and Kos nor with the Technical Chamber of Greece, Annexes Rhodes and Kos, which is very important to our islands. Also, Minister, I must tell you that I am not sure that the island clause has been taken into account and, more generally, islands in the region. You know, obviously those who designed and recommended to you have not taken into account the specific characteristics of the realisation in the Dodecanese. You know, Minister, that we in the Dodecanese - and the President knows so - dodecanese Members of Parliament know this - the particular characteristics of the register from the Italian period, which has inherited us with good practice, which could have been applicable to the territory. However, this decision is dissatisfied with the functioning of the land registers and with the hostages of islanders, which cannot be served when it comes to moving them. The Dodecanese can do anything like this, like in the mainland? I guess not, Minister. You're an islander, you know that. But we could say here, Minister, if there is a particular prediction and information in relation to the real estate volumes and their digitisation. There's not until now. Is it also interesting to go to press meetings that there is a way to close the mortgages in the Dodecanese region? Do you know, Minister, the situation there? There is indeed a malfunction in the register due to infrastructure, facilities, the lack of equipment and means for them. You also know the impossibility of issuing certificates and acts by the relevant censorship offices, because there are neither technicians nor the means nor, there is a weakness in being able to issue a certificate by the civil lawyers appointed. So, do you know what it means if these real estate records are closed? With regard to the plan published and Article 16 in particular, it will probably have a bad development for islanders, which will further exacerbate the functioning of the register, but also their own lives, their everyday life, the service they require from these real estate registers. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-16-S1-commons.u64	Mr. Stathakis, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-16-S1-commons.u65	As you know, we are on the verge of making a large section of a system that operated with two different subjects, the mortgages and the Land register, each with very different operating features and historical origin. One aspect had a very strong legal status and was subject to the Ministry of Justice and the real estate registers, a new institution for printing and recording all of the country's real estate data. This dual status, the two institutions, the two categories of institutions that come from the past today, are at the final stage to become integrated into a new organisation which will have both functions, namely the real estate and the legal force within it. He'll be a legal person under public law. The Legislative Committee operates in close cooperation with the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Energy and the Environment in order to share - I repeat that the law is being prepared by a joint committee chaired by an advisor to the Council. - to be ready in September 2017 to submit the new draft law for this single organisation now, which will respond to the final function of a single body, which repeats that it has both functions within it. There is therefore no intention or geographical distribution, which will be the geography of this new entity. It is still too early for any debate, so there is absolutely no plan. Now, of course, we are in dialogue with the unpaid and paid mortgage guards in order to find the solutions, the transitions and the finals, about how the new organisation will function and how jobs will be safeguarded and how the transition will be smoothly carried out. At this stage, I think that dialogue has gone a long way. I repeat that in the new definitive draft, his general philosophy has been captured. For all the detail and structure of the bill we will have to wait until September to be completed by this committee. We intend that there should finally be a single body, as there is in all the European countries where both these functions are integrated and that we should go to a modern body, which will make a maximum contribution. I repeat that the register is expected to be completed in 2020 and will allow us to now have a modern body, full realisation, full imprint of the owner, a single body that performs both functions, namely legal and spatial planning.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-16-S1-commons.u66	Here, Mr. Consola, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-16-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we know that the government and you are discussing with the institutions about the development of the Land registers in the country. That's a reality. However, I would like to ask you - and I am pleased that from this step forward you are announcing that this course is in progress - by September when you will be tabling this bill, to take into account the particular features of the register in the Dodecanese. I'm talking specifically about Rhodes in particular, Kos and Lero. I would also like to remind you that the Dodecanese has a peculiar development in terms of the land register, since there was the occupation of the islands by the Turks and the Italians and there were additional issues until 1947 that the Dodecanese was incorporated into the national body. But from there on there there are peculiarities. You know, Minister, I would like to point out this. I hope that this process will develop smoothly, with consultation and proper dialogue, without horizontal policies. I would like to ask you not to have the footprint of this initiative and of your efforts, just as has evolved with the forest maps. I want to believe that you do not want - and you do not have the intentions - to make the property of the public, as some are being carried on, and some of the underlying rumours show or are evolving with the forest maps. I would also like to remind you - and I should like to remind you of this - of the peculiarities of the public in order not to claim property of individuals, as is the case in Symi, Minister. I would like to ask you, too, to deal with this issue, because the legacy of some families has actually evolved into a public property acquisition, without the possibility of proving that the property is their own with these bureaucratic clashes that create additional weights and these cases relating to the development of the registers. From that point on, we must agree on the evolution that you have said. There must be a substantial modernisation in the Rhodes Stock Exchange. There must, above all, be a shift in the real estate offices without abolishing anyone, taking into account the working rights of all employees, wages and unpaid wages, so that problems do not arise. There must also be a substantial computerization and upgrading of new technologies. In this way we need to see the possibility of categorizing the transfer of ownership to the burdens that the property can have, to the uses, but also to the objective value. To conclude, Minister, you need to deal with this situation by adopting best and flexible practices in terms of the problems that exist today in registering real estate acts, but also in research, as at the moment lawyers are unable to do research with orders from their clients because there are no technicians at the stock offices. I would also like to ask you to be able to have photocopies of the real estate volumes as a tool for claiming evidence of innocence and truth, as the citizens of Rhodes claim property and establish a debate with the Greek State. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-16-S1-commons.u68	Here, Mr Stathakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-16-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr President. On one point I will be quite clear. Any final functions of the Offices of the new agency will obviously take full account of islandity and the need to provide services for citizens. They will take into account the island character of the country. That is foreseeable and I think we will proceed with such a spirit. The second issue you raised is, of course, a big issue that has been raised with the forest maps, but also with the realisation, where it has gone. It concerns the incorporation of individual property and the dispute with the public in the event that the credentials and certificates do not reach the point of time, together with the particularities that each region has in relation to the property regime. This is a more complicated matter. I do not want to be placed in this today. I think that on the matter of forest maps, progress has been made on this issue, on the certification of land use over a period of time, which forms a little different framework. It is a step forward to discuss this more thoroughly at another time when we will be ready to present it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-16-S1-commons.u70	Extremely careful, the Minister on the second matter, and I think he should. Just as an islander and I, Minister, believe that on such islands the state is better to draw its tail back. Here's how we try to keep people on the islands and, if possible, others go. If he takes the state, I don't know what future he'll have. Thank you for your presence here, Minister, and so do fellow Members. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Thursday 20 April 2017, Friday 21 April 2017 and Monday 24 April 2017 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-16-S1-commons.u71	The minutes of Thursday 20 April 2017, Friday 21 April 2017 and Monday 24 April 2017 were therefore validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-16-S1-commons.u72	With the agreement of the House at 11.22 p.m., the sitting on Monday 19 June 2017 at 18.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
