ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. We enter the SPECIFIC FACILITY ORGANIZATION Discussion and decision in accordance with Article 68(2) of the Constitution and Article 144e. the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, on the proposal put forward by the Chief of Staff and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the Members of his party, for a Committee of Inquiry, on the investigation of the involvement of the Minister of National Defence Mr Panos Kammenos and other officials and officials in an pending judicial case. The debate on the proposal for a Committee of Inquiry shall be held in accordance with Rule 144 and with the appropriate application of Rule 137(2) of the Rules of Procedure, i.e. in accordance with the procedure for the generalised debate. I would remind you that the debate on this proposal was scheduled for Friday 21 July and was postponed by the President of Parliament, Nikolaos Voutsi, after communication with Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras and the request by the President of the New Democracy, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, because of the strong earthquake in Kos. In accordance with the unanimous decision of the Conference of Presidents, an organised debate will be held without the inclusion of speakers. In particular, the debate will begin with a first-round, nine-priority speakers, one of each Parliamentary Group and an Independent MEP, starting with the Member of the Party that submitted the proposal, namely the New Democracy. And it will continue with a second circle of fourteen speakers, pursuant to Rule 65(5) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure and by analogy to the parliamentary power of the parties. More specifically, there will be five MPs from the Radical Left Coalition, three from New Democracy and one MEP from the other parliamentary groups. The proposed speaking times are for the nine priority speakers from eight minutes for each and each without the right to secondary education, for speakers from the single list of six minutes, without the right to secondary education. For the Presidents of the parliamentary groups, as provided for in Rule 97 of the Rules of Procedure, the speaking time of the Prime Minister and the Chief of Staff will be up to 20 minutes and the Presidents of the other six parliamentary groups will be up to 15 minutes. The Ministers responsible will be ten minutes. Parliamentary representatives will be 10 minutes, without prejudice to the limitation laid down in Rule 167(2) of the Rules of Procedure. Does the House agree that this proposal will be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u2	I therefore have the honour to announce to you the first eight speakers who have indicated the parties: Congressman Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos from New Democracy, MP Mr Nikolaos Paradiseopoulos from the Radical Left Coalition, MP Mr.Theodoros Papatheodorou from the Democratic Symposium of PASOK - DIMAR, MP Ilias Kasidiou from the People's Association - Golden Dawn, MP Mr.Ioannis Delis from the Communist Party of Greece, MP Mr. Konstantinos Katsikis from the Independent Greeks, MP Mr. Marios Georgiadis from the Association of Centralities, MP Mr. Georgios Amyras from Potamis and the Independent Voustidis. The parties have also indicated on their single list the following speakers: The SYRIZA Parliamentary Group Mrs Panagiota Kozobol - Amanatidis, Mrs Maria Triantafyllos, Mr Ioannis Theophylontos, Mr Aristides Baltas and Mr Vasilis Tsirkas, the New Democracy Parliamentary Group Mr Constantino-Javaras, Mr Ioannis Kefaloniannis and Mr Spyridon-Adoni Georgiadis, the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Independent Group of the PASOK - DIMAR Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos, the People's Association Parliamentary Group - Golden Dawn Mr Sachinidis, the Parliamentary Group of the Independents of Greeks Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos, the Parliamentary Group of the European Union. On behalf of the government, Mr Stavros Kontonis, Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights will be speaking for 10 minutes and Mr Dimitrios Papagelopoulos, Deputy Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights will also speak for 10 minutes. The Parliamentary Representatives are the following: from SYRIZA Mr Spyridon Lappas, from New Democracy Mr. Nikolaos Dendias, from the Democratic Assent of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdes, from the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Lagos, from the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Athanasios Pafilis, from the Independent Greeks Mr.Georgios Lazaridis, from the Association of Centres Mr.Ioannis Saridis and from Potamis Mr. At the end of the debate, a roll-call vote will be taken on the proposal. We wish that the whole process has been completed by 21.00 p.m. at the latest. At the same time, I call, in order not to degrade the procedure, to limit the subject on the agenda, since, as I said at the outset, what we are discussing at the outset is the investigation of the Minister of National Defence's involvement in an pending judicial case. For all other things, there are means of parliamentary control to find out any responsibilities. We're starting with Mr. Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos. Mr. Panayotopoulos, you have the floor for eight minutes, as I have announced.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u3	With little tolerance, Mr President. I think you could give me at least half a year from Mr Kammenos's speaking time with the isovite, since the proposal needs to be developed in detail. That's 20 minutes! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Well, I'm on my way. We are discussing today, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal of the Officerial Response for a Committee of Inquiry as set out in the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the House regarding the investigation of the involvement of the Minister of National Defence, Mr Panos Kammenos and other officials and officials in an outstanding court case. The proposal we are making is an invitation to all parliamentary groups to seek the truth in a matter of great public interest with many questions about the involvement of politicians in it. It certainly has nothing to do with the substance of the "NOOR 1" case and its investigation by the only person responsible for doing so Greek justice. I would remind you that huge drug trafficking and trafficking cycles have been dismantled by the prosecution authorities as early as the summer of 2014. The investigations had resulted and Greek justice sent to prison by sentenced to life sentences at first instance five of the thirteen convicted guilty. Days ago, admittedly too late, the competent investigating authorities issued arrest warrants for two Turkish drug smugglers involved in the case. It is a wishful task to be fully cleared up and the guilty are faced with the consequences of the law. But today we are here, ladies and gentlemen, to decide something else very specific. The involvement of the Minister of National Defence Mr. Panos Kammenos in the case aimed at substantially affecting its outcome is a direct and uncovered interference in the work of justice. I suspect that there has been no precedent for similar intervention in a similar case by a former Minister of Government. But Mr Kammens' telephone conversations with the isovite of twenty-one minutes, as I said, 12 figures, have been agreed. It's done. He claimed that all he did was lovingly encourage the isobite to tell the truth without fear. The Minister of Justice fully adopted the Kammenos version by appraising it as a commendable behavior. Government officials considered his intervention to be self-evident, and the Prime Minister covered him in the House. Even if we adopt this version of itself, however, the institutional problem of the Minister of Defence and therefore of those defending it exists and is serious. Because the only self-evident thing that she had to do when she became aware of the case was to inform the competent public prosecutors so that they could take care of them, thereby really helping justice in her work and exhausting in this way only his involvement in the case. It's not his job. It is not the job of any minister of any government to make phone calls on a isovit's mobile, to exchange messages with him, to keep an open communication channel and regular contact with a prisoner's mediation service. But there is, ladies and gentlemen, another version of its involvement, more complicated and darker. It is based on recordings of the isovite on the Internet with its visiting port inquiries, who had put pressure on him to involve another person with an incentive and in exchange for the favorable criminal treatment of the isovite, on the other hand, with a view to political extermination of the President of the New Democracy, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis. These are very serious things. That statement, of course, never came up. However, the questions concerning the incentives, scope and feasibility of Mr Kammenos's involvement remain. So what exactly has happened? What exactly was the content of 12 telephone conversations between the Minister of Defence and the isovite? Has Mr. Kammenos been contacted by the prosecutor and the port clerk? In what context exactly was he involved in the case? What is the matter of national security, which he spoke about from the Step of the House, and which he invoked in public? Was the Prime Minister aware of all this? And what was the degree of involvement in the case of the Minister of Justice and other servants of justice in a case which, at the time when there was an investigation procedure at the time, that is, a preliminary examination, was governed by the principle of secrecy and was therefore excluded from any intervention from the outside? Here, then, there are too many unanswered questions. Days ago, the Prosecutor of Piraeus, in the context of a preliminary examination after two monthly reports on the case, issued a finding under which monthly reports on the public prosecutor, to whom disciplinary but not criminal responsibilities are attributed in the performance of his duties, as regards the journalist Triantafyllos and the two still male entrepreneurs, were filed. Mr Kammens, of course, took this development, about as a triumphant discharge of all responsibility and involvement. It's not like that, though. As regards the port official Christoforodis and the Minister of Defence, Pano Kammenos, there has been no archives of the case at all. For the first, the case-file was sent to the competent court of Piraeus. I am not amazed, of course, that this activity of the port had not even been ordered by the relevant Minister for Maritime Affairs. His reflexes were found a few days ago. In addition, however, as far as Mr Kammenos is concerned, the case-file was forwarded to the House by the prosecutor of the Ice Bay, as the law stipulates. I read the document sent on 23-6-2017 by the prosecutor of Piraeus Panagiotis Brakoumatsos to the prosecutor of the Ice Arrow: “In the study of the case-file, we have found that in the monthly reports and other documents there are references concerning political persons, the evaluation of which cannot be carried out under Articles 86(1)-3 of the Constitution, which have to do with the exercise of criminal proceedings by the House and the Law on the Responsibility of Ministers”, etc. The Prosecutor of Piraeus forwarded the case to the Prosecutor of the Ice Arrow, and the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay referred it to us in Parliament's Plenary Assembly as being due, according to the law and the Constitution, in order to decide as the sole body responsible for a preliminary examination of Mr Kammens. We must not forget the fact that this case-file was not filed by the Prosecutor of the Ice Arena, as had happened, for example, in the case of the respective case-file for the imposition of capital restrictions, capital controls, which had been clearly found to be unfounded and the case-file had been filed. In that case, however, he came here. This shows that, for the public prosecutors, Mr Kammenos's involvement in the case must be investigated and investigated by us, the Greek Parliament. I would therefore like to address everyone: Prime Minister - I assume that from somewhere you are watching - your government partner is obviously a one-way path to maintaining you in power. But where is it - I wonder - your tolerance limit to it, but also to other similar and recent behaviours? Does that cover you? Do you agree with this combination of arrogance, prestige and hunger - I dare say - in the exercise of power, which is sometimes pursued by telephone interventions in isovites and sometimes with visits to luxury hotels and casinos for a little toy, so that we can leave the troubles of power, but always - and I say - expresses the attitude that I am "power and what I want to do"? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A bit of your tolerance, Madam President. I'm done. Mr. Minister of National Defence - and you are not here, I assume you are preparing your counter-projects - in July, when you asked us in this House with your well-known glazed style if we have the opportunity to ask for a pre-review committee or a motion of censure against you, I tell you that we are asking today for a committee of inquiry to be set up and I ask you this: You, Mr. Cammene, have the men to accept our proposal? If you are claiming that the service against you has been suppressed, then you obviously have nothing to fear. After all, the committee of inquiry, although it is in theory the right to exercise parliamentary control by the parliamentary minority, is in practice checked, when it is set up, by the parliamentary majority. So what are you afraid of? In addition, you promised us by the Stepma of plenary that you would present the contents of your talks with the isovici. So accept our proposal and go to the examination. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, particularly you of the government majority, just before the first postponed sitting of August, the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group had decided, by its communication, to vote against our proposal. If you then thought that all of this had no need for investigation, today you have the opportunity to revise. Today we have an opportunity to decide to seek the truth as a House in a case with many shadows for the public life of the place and even more vibrations in the institutional background of the rule of law, as defined by the principle of separation of powers and the functional independence of justice. However, if they eventually cover you with the style and behavior of empires who do what they want and do not account anywhere, if you continue to swallow the camel, then you are in danger of being converted into a hypocritical majority of cover. You judge, you decide. Consider, then, each one with your conscience and decide. I call for the proposal of the Officerial Representation to be voted in favour of a committee of inquiry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u4	Mr Paradoxopoulos has the floor from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u5	Madam President, there has been a glimpse of words and please also for a corresponding tolerance of time to me if I need it. The proposal by the New Democracy Members to set up a committee of inquiry on this matter seems to me to be part of an opposition tactic. It's a regularity. I do not want to speak with clichés and say 'Collection Officer' - it is rather a broader matter - but I will describe it. This tactic what he wants, what's he trying to do? It is trying in the interest of creating a party benefiting from the public interest being sidelined. Where do we see her? We've seen her very recently. We don't care about the content of a law, if he's good. Since the law is aimed at all citizens, we do not care if the law is good for all citizens, we are interested in breaking out government cohesion, so that we become government, the good of the place stay aside. We do not care if the country needs investment today. We, indirectly or directly, urge investors to wait for us to come to power or to help us come to power, because then they will be able to invest more profitablely. And we reach the point. We do not care whether or not our proposal helps to investigate a case which is pending in justice - here I disagree with the previous speaker - and which in many respects is unknown and important and heavier for the Greek society. We don't care at all. We are concerned that we will hit an important government minister and the government as a whole. So what does this case do? It risks justice and security, because the administration of justice in a case involving two tons of heroin concerns the safety of citizens, in order for a minister to be hurt. And why is this case jeopardising the tranquility of justice in its attempt to investigate it? But because in some research, inquiries need secrecy. Of course, I should like to respond and specifically to what has been said in this case. Of course, it's not the case. First of all, there's only one final case, which means that there's been a relinquishment of the media, an appeal court, and it's probably going to be a cancellation court. Secondly, the case has open aspects. For the time being, no donors have been found, not convicted. Does the country have an interest in showing the donors? But, Woe-Woe! The sponsor of such a big business, which is obviously the brain, if it is left unharmed and is not found, will have a loose arm to go on. Continue who? The one who brought two tons of heroin. You know what two tons of heroin mean. However, I will remind you of it for those who are used to forget certain things. It does not only mean people who are addicted, it means deaths, because they are measured by statistical rates of death corresponding to those who are drug-dependent. People will die from this introduction of the substance. In addition, illegal profits will be created. Illegal profits will create a strong paradox. I would remind you that the black economy will have its braces, that is to say it will produce violence. Drugs won't spread indiscriminately. In some cases they will also be placed in spaces. Who? I don't know, but we have international examples, such as fanatics, repressive spaces. We also have examples of drugs that go around the world, prisons, various places. All this will happen. That's all? That's not all. Aren't businesses going to be created to launder money, which will be the result of drugs? In business, won't people work? Aren't we going to have the grievance to prevent the legitimate economy? That's not what we care about. We're interested in whether a phone call was not comme il faut, as it should be. That's all we care about. Let the other one take risks. Of course, to discuss today, even in today's plenary, issues of the type 'who called to whom, in what way and what he said' means that research efforts to be carried out under the legislation - and even international - will be made public in a secret way so that they can be effective. To come to publicity is a global originality and we show the cliché of well-known journalists - I don't remember his name - who kept talking about world originals and ended in the corn. The international legal system cannot but provide for certain tools to try to dismantle serious crime. For this reason alone, the Palermo UN Convention on Organised Crime and the Convention on Terrorism provides for specific tools. What's she predicting? It provides for the premium for the provision of information, even with suspensions and with exemptions, even after the irrevocable condemnation, if only we have a definitive one. I'm saying that again for Mr. Panayotopoulos who said the case was closed. It provides for the lifting of the unfair nature of acts to be done to infiltrate and attempt to dismantle a gang. Do you know what an unjust character means, those who are not lawyers? It means that, in order to dismantle a gang, even a crime is justified, how much more a phone, which is not even a criminal in terms of the politician, who did it. It provides for the same legislation, the special legislation on drugs, that this task of exploring information may also be entrusted to a third party. Why in a third? Because the one who has the information, on the basis of which the world can be saved from drugs, may not want to give it to the policeman, the public minister, because he is afraid of him and given it to another. Why? Because he sees him as a friend, because he trusts him that for reasons of power he can give him a protection he needs. Of course it is provided for by specific legislation and the protection of witnesses. All these tools are planned so that there can be information to dismantle a group, they have even a wide range of tools. They are also provided for other operations, even for controlled deliveries which, without this special legislation, would be illegal. Even illegally, the legal order of the Greeks, the international order, has arrived in order to deal with such a serious crime, such as what has been found here. Another problem is that the case, this matter, is in justice. The majority rapporteur told us, of course,: 'You know, the archiving is not about the politician. The matter has been referred here to Parliament.' Could it be different? He couldn't. It is compulsory to refer to the House at the time when a political name is mentioned. But the abuse of power as a natural automobile has left. It seems to be called the political person, the Minister, on the charge of moral automation for a natural automation, which has left and finished. You can understand that the case has been made very clear in its material and comes to the House in order to judge whether there is a criminalty moral automobile for an act which was not judged to be criminal. It was not a criminal offence because you cannot in any way weight the benefit of such a serious crime on the one hand, and on the other hand there has been a research effort not by the person concerned, but by a third, which is also provided for by third parties, as I have said before. I heard, of course, that there was also talk of pressure from the port and so on. I must say that this is also covered by the archiving, the abuse of power, that is to say the exercise of pressure. According to the D.A. who filed the file, there's no way. Do you know what comes from through this history? This history shows that there is a psychological theme. Opposition tends to blame others for its own flaws. He knows them and tends to account for them. He's imputing to others what? The chair hunt. What's she doing here? As I said before, she is trying to blame the government for powerlessness, when she herself, in order to overthrow the government, to undermine the government, is trying to investigate a very important case, bringing it here. Of course, intervention in justice is flagrant. It's the second psychological issue I've been telling you about. On a lasting basis, the Government says that it does not count on security, that it intervenes in justice. But this is where we have raw intervention in justice, because when the request was made for the committee to be set up, we did not even have the archiving. Rare intervention in justice! Intervention and security in order to have a party benefit. You will notice, on the basis of what I told you, that I have not mentioned things at all, what has happened and what has not been done, but in the institutional sphere. I think that this was the only response due to this proposal for a committee of inquiry, which is absolutely out of the House's Rules of Procedure and a legislative climate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u6	Mr Papatheodorou has the floor from the PASOK - DIMAR.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, since my first intervention under parliamentary scrutiny on 26 June 2017, I have referred to the existence of a parapolitical circuit with a judicial dimension, for an attempt to manipulate justice with political manipulation. It seems that political gambling, like gambling in general, has not favoured Mr. Kammenos this time. Since then, since June, many new elements have seen the light of publicity. Many revelations now substantiate the framework of political responsibility. However, there are also indications of Mr Kammenos's criminal responsibility. There is a tent of parastates with government coverage, if not with government guidance. I begin with the basics, which demonstrate the non-legal functioning of port, penitentiary and judicial authorities, non-legal interventions - we will see whether these are serious or not - of the executive authority, violation of the Criminal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Penitentiary Code. All this, of course, was not done to shine the truth, as the Prime Minister has said, as the Minister of National Defence said, as the Minister of Justice and many other government officials have said. The main thing, then, is that here we have a group of people who agree with each other to commit offences - these offences are to shine the truth? - involving a port officer, state services executives, ministries executives, a minister and other persons, who are seeking to influence the development of a judicial case, from which they appear to benefit. A political benefit? Any other benefit? We'll see. There is today evidence that Mr. Kammenos spoke with the isovite Giannousakis twelve times between 17 and 18 January 2017. All the talks and the time available for these talks have been published on the Internet, even in times advanced. I'm tabling them for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What could the Minister of National Defence say with a isovite for twenty full minutes? The recorded talks by the isovites themselves, which were made public, prove that in half a year the two men refer to Jiva's late arrival at the detention store of Aylona - while before he had been wrongly informed at the store of Korydalos - and in the other half to the appeals made by the Minister of Defence to the isovite of the press "you give evidence to your statement and I will witness for you at the Pentelic Court of Appeal." These are not calls come il fat These involve evidence of offences. It seems, however, that the defendant is skeptical and records the calls and messages to and from the Minister, as he does with the port officer and is struggling for the prosecutor's visit to Paul. He is so concerned that he sends a message late at night - he has been published - to Mr Kammenos asking him if he is sure he will come. This will mean a direct communication between a prisoner and a Minister of National Defence. I would like to say to you here: this is indeed confirmed by the memorandum tabled by Mrs Giva on the whole involvement in this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u8	How do you know? Tell us about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u9	They've been published. I will answer you, Minister. Because the D.A. had confused the prisons she was told to go to arrive at the courtyard at 23:30 to get a statement. Here's the prison certificate. At this point, however, you are listening to an essential element of the parapolitical circuit that uses institutions and services. When the D.A. arrives, no one shall inform the head of the store of the D.A.'s visit. Informs the Ministry, informs the prison coordinator, who is a party official of SYRIZA. The Chief Prosecutor of the Court of Appeal is not informed, and the Sergeant's reference for this visit is still being sought. Aren't these elements not acts which can haunt offences? Question: Is what the prisoner denounces, namely that in order for Mrs Jiva to enter the prison she had to call the sergeant, Mr Tassie? To shine the truth, that's what happened. Let's go to other phone calls, which aren't so come il fat. It is true that the director of prisons - Minister, I would like an answer, because it matters to the functioning of the institutions - has just been informed the next day of the visit and has made a reference, as he had to, to serious procedural violations, immediately transferred to another store in northern Greece? How much longer will the decline of this regime and the undermining of the institutions show that the destruction of any concept of rule of law has become everyday practice? These methods are methods of state-of-the-art, and yet they do not remind of a European country, when prosecutors are almost secretly entering prisons - it has nothing to do with the secrecy of the procedure - at midnight to get a deposit from prisoners. During the meeting, the prisoner again - and it has been made public - that the prosecutor is speaking with the Minister of Justice for an hour and that does not seem to bother anyone, nor the Minister himself until today. The prosecutor, in the three hours he stays in prison, with a certificate from the courthouse, asks the prisoner to give her something specific to incriminate another person, an entrepreneur. Question: What kind of statements are those that the prosecutor discusses with the Minister of Justice at the time of receiving the alleged statement? You don't find anything weird either, I guess.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u10	This has now been judged.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u11	The inertia of the system, however, ladies and gentlemen, which promised various consideration to the prisoner, such as the suspension of his sentence, seems to be annoying the prisoner. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Madam President, I am not finished, but I will not need more than a minute of my time. So, on January 22, 2017, ladies and gentlemen, the prisoner sends a post-mortem message to Mr Kammenos and with the well-known intimacy of the two men not only arrange for his transfer to another prison, not only determines the best dates he thinks he is convenient, on February 1st and 2nd, but urges the Minister to testify to get the prisoner suspended, get out of prison and then give a statement. That's right, they give and take. It is clear that this government does not simply give way to methods of para-states, but adopts them as the main practice to cover up its anti-institutional, illegal and anti-democratic interventions. Nothing to do with the truth shine. The whole process here is about being guided by justice in a specific decision, in a specific direction. At the same time, in this case, there is a dominant role for the Minister of Maritime Affairs, Mr Christofordis, who has so far not been disturbed by his political and hierarchical heads, and especially by the Minister of Shipping, Mr Kurublis, who had replied to me that he will not be disturbed by the justice in this particular case. Looks like there's a lot of shipwrecks in this ministry. The Attorney's Attorney has already referred the port officer to the Naval Court. The lieutenant appears as Mr. Kammenos's man. He has visited Mr. Giannousakis six times from August to January 2017 and this again with a certificate from the booking store, more often in March. He's exchanged dozens of messages with the prisoner. He promised transfers and consultations with Mr. Kammenos to suspend the sentence if he received a statement which would incriminate a particular businessman. So the question we have to answer in this case, ladies and gentlemen, is this: Since when did Mr Kammens know the plan for the contested statement? Since January 2017 or August when the guidance of the surveys was started? Since when did the Prime Minister know this trespass and what he did to prevent and protect justice, while respecting the procedural guarantees that the prisoner needed? The responsibilities are real, no matter how much the government tries to cover up the scandal, no matter how much it forces Members to close their eyes in front of the polls when they have to vote. Now they all know that the Prime Minister did not simply choose a partner with anti-institutional behaviour for co-government. He chose to swim with him in the infected waters of the status quo and, when necessary, cover him with full consciousness of what he does. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] It will now continue with your consent, ladies and gentlemen of the Co-Population, and will continue with your consent to enslaving any left alibi to the protection of Mr. Kammenos. And you're gonna let that pass, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u12	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u13	What do you want, Mr. Condonne?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u14	I'd like to speak for ten seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u15	You have the floor for ten seconds, but do not stop the course of the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u16	The rapporteur for the Democratic Alliance has made a reference. I badly interrupted him. I am now asking him the question. He reported evidence from the Prosecutor's Memorial, Mrs. Ghiva, who had testified before the prosecutor, Mr. Drakumatsu. I ask him: What procedure and how has the Ms. Prosecutor's record reached his hands? I demand an answer now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u17	Mr Minister, this is not the case, of course, for questions to be answered. Mr. Papatheodorou, I don't know if you want to answer. In any case, the speaker's flow should not be stopped.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u18	Obviously, I want to respond, Madam President. Minister, shall we begin with the basics if you have any kindness?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u19	No, I want you to answer that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u20	That's what I'll tell you. Let's start with the basics. You won't move the finger when you address...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u21	This is where you moved it! It's gonna make suggestions...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u22	You don't understand, Mr. Papatheodorou. You'll ask for permission from me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u23	The second, Minister. Listen to the answer. Refer to press releases in the last fifteen days. He's reported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u24	Tell us what the publications are and tell us the newspapers that have published them. Tell us where you found the Ms. Attorney's Memorial.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u25	Would you excuse me, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u26	Here you go, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u27	Thank you. The reference to the memorandum, as well as to the other items in the file, has been made by three newspapers in the last 15 days. I would be very happy to table them then for the Minutes. As for what you're saying, you didn't have any knowledge, I think you had knowledge. We read the same paper, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u28	I have no knowledge of the case. I am surprised that you and some newspapers are here. We expect to see which newspapers you have published. We're waiting.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u29	My speech?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u30	Yes, your speech. You referred to Mrs Ghiva's memo, and of what you said, to see which newspapers they have been published.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u31	Okay. Mr. Papatheodorou, if you have them. We will, however, continue with the list.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u32	I'll have to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u33	No, you don't have to answer that. He didn't say anything to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u34	I have to answer. It's personal. Minister, it is very pleasant that the newspapers report information in my speech. I have no problem with that, because it's public, and I make it public. That is what you said earlier. As for the other elements to which you refer, as well as all the talks between Mr Kammenos, Mr Giannousakis and Mr Christoforides, everything has been published and not only have been published, but they have been published for months.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u35	From Mr. Drakumatsu's finding, can you tell us Mrs. Ghiva's memo was in your hands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u36	It was petitions, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u37	Tell us where you draw the reports from. Tell us!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u38	Well, there was an issue that would be investigated further. Mr. Cassidy from Golden Dawn has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u39	So not fooling ourselves and not mocking the people who are being watched, who are allegedly slashed in this Chamber for the leaking of a finding. In the litigation of the Golden Dawn first they played on the channels the pleadings, the rulings of prosecutors and interrogators and our sensitive personal data, and then they were signed in the court of appeal and in the court of first instance. Don't make fun of yourself, and don't make fun of the world. We are not fools who are listening to and following this debate, nor is the New Democracy affected and fighting for independent justice. Let me laugh! The New Democracy, which I had brought here videos and sound materials with Samara's orders to the prosecutors and did what he didn't hear? Neither did SYRIZA, of course, and the Kammenos saw her prosecuted. At the ages, Kammen saw her DEA and will be chasing the drug dealers. What is being played today is a mockery, a stirred theatre and I will also highlight the reasons behind this debate. I repeat, however, that it is truly a tragic irony and an insult to our intelligence that the New Democracy will come to the House and speak of independent justice, the New Democracy which has ridiculed everything. I displayed videos with your general secretary, your government, confessing how they had captured the prosecutor of the Ice Bay, who had put the prosecution against a party, had destroyed every concept of separation of powers. On the other hand, of course, that Kammen was not the persecutor of drug dealers, as if he saw the show on the TV with Escobar, and he was inspired and made the detective! In fact, what is being done today in this House is the continuation of a war between businessmen. It is a conflict between business groups, whose lips - because politicians are fierce businessmen in Greece, unfortunately, that is why our country's opposition - is trying to fight against them. Because we call names on the Golden Dawn, it is the confrontation between Melissanides - Savvidis vs. Marinakis, on the one hand, the government that serves the interests of Savvidis and on the other hand the New Democracy and the PASOK which serves the interests of Marinakis. Of course, there's a duplication. We have all seen with the takeover of the Doll by the Marinaki group that these forms, this agency has become a liar to the New Democracy. And, of course, because we are talking about evidence, it is enough to see the interpersonal relationships, the social contacts of government actors and the officers of Officerial Opposition with those money tycoons that God knows how all of these money was made! We have the case of a couple of Kammens here at a social event on the Savvidis side. In particular, some neo-democratics had gone to the marriage of the son Savvidis. They were the ones who did not come here to vote against the removal of the BSE fines. On the other hand, we have in social events Marinaki Dora Bakoyannis and other MPs, Voridis, Georgiadis, first track table next to Marinakis. That's what's going on today. The complexity between political power and corrupt economic factors is the cause of today's debate. Kammenos is who he is. He goes to the casinos, gambles, travels with a jaguar, but don't be intimidated by the New Republic of Samara and Venizelos with the armored BMW that gave 6,000 euros to change tyres! Kammenos and SYRIZA are the continuation of the sinful regime of New Democracy and PASOK. And because the subject of the debate today is the independence of justice and by reading from the document distributed, it is the involvement of actors, government officials and officials in a pending court case and because the Minister of Justice and the Deputy Minister of Anti-corruption are here, I would like to say that the Step has been taken, which arrived in Parliament on 28-3-2017, which involved the crime of instigation of an offence by the former Prime Minister Samaras. So this case-file which the New Democracy - and it makes sense - is indifferent and the government. SYRIZA, who today seems to have a confrontation with New Democracy and a bailout of his government officials with the neo-democrats, but jointly with the New Democracy, is covering forensics, which concerns intervention in the justice of certain government officials. The Attorney's Prosecutor has asked for criminal responsibilities to be investigated, Samara, for inciting to commit a crime. It is about the famously recorded conversation with the prosecutor "Athens" who urged him to close in prison Golden Dawn MPs. I presented these in the House, and presented the Baltaku video in the House. He was here then, Papadimoulis from SYRIZA and said they would ask for a preliminary agenda discussion and did "hard" and they became government and together with Kammenos cover these crimes, these interventions in justice. Why? I'll read something very critical. These things have not been heard here at the Step and it is an opportunity today, rather than talking about wind and water and serving the political system of interests of oligarchs and economic operators, to hear about real interventions in justice, for which the whole political system is responsible, primarily the current SYRIZA - ANEL, which is in good cooperation with New Democracy and which covers its crimes. The current head of the Attorney's Prosecutor, Antonio Ligas, who was the prosecutor and had handled the Baltaku case, writes for this case that had been shocked by the Greek and today, because the Golden Dawn has been targeted as the only force that resists the sale of Greece. I read the words from the relevant conclusion, which has also led to my discharge from the Board of Appeal. When was it again heard in Greece being persecuted by a citizen or a MP because he revealed the truth? "It is a fact" - says the prosecutor - "that the truth or the truth of the claims Panagiotis Baltakou has not emerged, because the interrogation made" - with seized prosecutors and investigators - "it was satisfied by the subsequent public disapproval of the above claims. As far as we are concerned, this action by Panagiotis Baltakou was both self-evident and expected and did not arise if this issue was also investigated in the context of another independent judicial investigation with the meticulousness, persistence and the greatest possible transparency and publicity that the case required." In other words, the current Chief of the Appeals Prosecutor is calling for this case to be investigated with scrupulousness, perseverance and with the greatest possible transparency. When the litigation came for Samaras in the House, I sent a letter to all the Members, so that no one had the argument to lie that he did not know. I sent it to all parliamentarians and only Mr Nicholopoulos responded to it, with the exception of the Members of the Golden Dawn. Everyone else has been silent. This demonstrates that there is good cooperation between the Government of SYRIZA and the Opposition of New Democracy on the issues of transparency, anti-corruption of fraudulent circuits, created by politicians. Today's debate is taking place, only for the eyes of the world - it is not going to lead anywhere - and for the service of specific business interests that have transformed the House, in effect, into a place where these interests, which have been taken by political parties, the factors of power, but also the opposition to them. Because what is happening today - I say again and I close with it - is the Savvidis-Marinaki conflict. It is not a question of justice policies, which illegally ran and trampled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u40	Mr. Ioannis Delis has the floor from the JRC.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of the New Democracy's proposal to set up a committee of inquiry into the Minister for Defence, it would be beneficial - for the people, of course - for the first time - for the people themselves to look back at their experience - there is rich experience from dozens of committees of inquiry that have been before, but also recently - and to make their own account. And in this case, not only does the government play its part, but it is also an official opposition, such as the New Democracy or SYRIZA. What, though, do these examinations leave behind, and above all how much they aim or block anti-popular policy, and what, anyway, improve the lives of the people and the cruel reality that they experience? Not at all, but at all, it won't be difficult, based on experience, to find the answers. There is not a single committee of inquiry, which has not started in the biggest noise with the flooding of publications and emissions, with fancy bi-party worms and, of course, with all the statements about the knife that will arrive - rapidly - to the bone, so that almost all of them will eventually disappear - slowly within minimum publicity and often in silence. This is the rule of the conclusion of these examinations. Any exceptions simply confirm him. As for whether these examinations were, for a while, an obstacle to the anti-popular attack, that is not even a joke. On the contrary, it was done: they were exploited and used and thus continued today as a valuable tool of popular disorientation for the intensity and escalation of anti-population policy. Bearing in mind their background, it is not at all accident that all the relevant committees of inquiry appear and concentrate precisely then, when a new anti-popular attack is being prepared or evolved every time and new weights of anti-purpose packages are being prepared to load on the popular platforms. As with your policy, the bread of the people is lessened, so dense the disorientating spectacles of the fascinating impression. Of course, these exams do not stand in the air, but fall on real events and pull the backstage curtain a little. Then there are some revelations about the functions of a capitalist system behind the window. And then the boots of his rot, which have arrived for a long time as his medal, rotting capitalist, who, of course, has no healing and solution for the people, is no more than his overthrow. So the parties of the system, the bourgeois, and they find, whenever they need their scapegoats. They incorporate some persons and acquit the great culprit: the system itself that breeds and reproduces such phenomena. Finally, the Committees of Inquiry and the thunderstorm that always rise around them are not only a field for the clearing, savage many times, of the intra-civil accounts of civil servants on the background of unrelenting business competitions. These Committees of Inquiry - and this is the crucial and not to be passed by the people - and perhaps the upper stage of the hood of two-party confrontation of parties which, while collaborating strategically and confronting on the same path, capitalist and, where necessary, voting together the memoranda, all of this must be hidden in excess of their individual and secondary differences, so that they are able, of course, to encroach and lure people on their own path so that the people do not notice the signs of this street that are written purely and firmly 'capitalist exploitation, business groups and the development of their profits'. So now with the New Democracy's proposal for an examination, its choice and its reasoning condenses all the above features into a wild business competition that is evolving ahead of our eyes, in the capitalist jungle of the Greek economy that embraces many sectors and branches, from energy and transport to control of the media, newspapers, channels, competition between capitalist and business groups about who will get the largest share of the profits of capitalist exploitation. We see in this competition that all the bourgeois parties of the government and the opposition participate in and take up battle positions as representatives of various competitive parts of Greek capital. We see this competition involving even powerful states, as the government newspaper has confessed to the relative interest of the United States in today's case. And suddenly this 'NOOR 1' case, which has been known for years, is this extremely serious criminal case, involving large-scale drug trafficking in the heroin industry, which must be totally cleared up and fully accountable for all responsibilities, and we see it coming to the center of political controversy and becoming the top of the iceberg of unscrupulous business controversy. In fact, while judicial investigation is evolving on this serious issue, strange, repeated contacts by the Minister of Defence, which raise many questions about their feasibility and certainly do not help this judicial investigation. So the questions for the Minister of Defence are a lot of things and need to be answered clearly, and the prime minister's shield that stands around the strange practices of the government partner, in fact it is a confession that this government is also normally taking part in the fierce business confrontations and, despite its great words against corruption and strife, does not intend to go further than the previous ones, since this government of the krone on its head has the capitalist system itself, which endures scandals, strife and corruption, along with labour exploitation, wars and drugs. And let us finally stop this poor and disorientative opposition to justice for the independence of which, while you are tearing your clothes as tightly as you hug it, since, of course, you appoint its leadership. And the government does not think that, because it criticizes judicial decisions, it is even washed away from its responsibilities. The laws it maintains and the laws it is voting on are implemented by the judges, and if it is honest and not hypocritical, then let them change. The many words here, apart from poverty, are hypocrisy. They're counting the works. In conclusion, on the basis of all the above and without the slightest illusion, because of the previous experience, of the real role of these committees of inquiry, without, of course, agreeing on the New Democracy proposal and, as a Communist Party of Greece, we are voting in favour of the proposal to set up the Committee of Inquiry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u42	Mr Constantine Katsikis is now speaking by the Greek Parliamentary Group of Independents.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the frequency with which the New Democracy quota requests the Government to set up committees of inquiry tends to receive epidemic status. However, the aim of today's proposal is abundant. Through the face of the President of the Independent Greeks, the aim is to cooperate two uncoordinated ideological parties, but the understanding of both in political culture has made them exemplary historical partners. This disturbs you, gentlemen of the New Democracy - especially of the New Democracy, since you have made the proposal to set up a committee of inquiry - and this annoyance is so great, which I would say is straying you, leads you to indiscriminately delinquent paths, in danger of being supporters of guilty people in the biggest possible case of drug trafficking and trafficking in the last decades, which so far counts seven dead under indiscriminate circumstances. In his desperate attempt, the only survivor, Giannousakis, not to be numbered as the eighth dead - that's what he tried - of this story made use of his constitutionally fortified right to freedom of communication, a freedom which you call the subject that enables you and your circles to provoke today a debate on a committee of inquiry. You are the human rights defenders themselves when we voted for the coexistence pact when we voted for the Muslim mosque when we voted for citizenship when we voted for the improvements to the homosexual coexistence pact, which, as defenders of human rights, you said, did well - you voted in favour of all these bills. But you are the same today that, as a teacher who taught and has no reason to do so, you are trying to keep something apart and beyond any measure of equality, because it is violated, according to your standards, gentlemen of the New Democracy and of PASOK, in the field of equality, the communication of any man with any man. Because one's crime is that he's a minister and another's misinterpretation is that he's an equal and he can't communicate with a minister, with a politician. Is it true that if we look back at your own communications in political capacity, have you ever contacted, gentlemen, with a prisoner? So explain to us where you are focusing the accusation on the President of the Independent Greeks. To date we are saying that a committee of inquiry will be held to see how Panos Kammenos is involved in this case of "NOOR 1". But you are not saying what you are trying to get from such a committee of inquiry. Where are you going with this? So, where is he involved? You don't say it reluctantly. And you know why? Because you're scared. For one more reason: why do you not have the information so that you can give criminally collusive acts to the President of the Independent Greeks? The fact that Panos Kammenos respected the right of a man, even under this special relationship regime with the state, to communicate with anyone who wishes, for you, is a crime. The recruitment of journalistic "papapasques" with their libels you think it will vomit the lousy image you present. So make a mistake! The SYRIZA Government - ANEL will give a political answer. Besides - and let me go a little bit into legal terminology - the confidentiality of communication and of in any way freedom of response is a guarantee of personal freedom in general, because it is directly linked to private life, it protects the free and confidential manifestation and communication of thoughts, ideas and emotions and so also involves intellectual freedom and trafficking. Confidentiality is the absolutely secret. Privacy concerns the content of the responses and not the external elements of communication. The contents of telecommunications shall not be used as legal evidence before a court or other authority, nor shall it be based on any responsibility or adversely or harmful to the institution of the individual right concerned. The Constitution entrusted the crisis and the energy of violations of confidentiality exclusively to the judiciary and not to the parliament. The judicial authority shall not be bound by secrecy on grounds of national security and to distinguish particularly serious problems. The inviolability of confidentiality binds the legislator and administration in general. The freedom of responses and communication in general means that every person is free to choose the kind, the means and the way of communication. Communication may be addressed to any part of the territory or abroad and may also be made with persons under special powers, for example persons serving the Armed Forces or even prisoners. It is an obligation of the State to ensure the confidentiality of free response and communication. That is all about Article 19 of the Constitution, ladies and gentlemen. So, at the edge of the spear, this answer lies in the clearance and transparency. Both will require research and research will bring things to the surface and then be sure that the examinations will take place for you. On a side with the historic route of the New Democracy, your current word is not worthy of honour. The anti-corruption, inter-terrorism and organised crime forces, which control a number of media, are trying to cover up the biggest drug trafficking case. At the same time, they are trying to create a climate of intimidation and terrorism towards justice, aiming at the impunity of high-ranking people and the destabilisation of the institutions of democracy. You are trying, gentlemen, to reverse the roles and qualities of defendants and suspects to complainants. A moment ago, from this Step, as a public prosecutor, the spokesman of the Democratic Association, Mr Papatheodorou, was expressed. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, I would like two more minutes, please. You're trying to cover up a businessman whose involvement in the case of the criminal organization with smuggled toys in football, in the case of oil smuggling and dirty money laundering. Recently, there have been transfers of his company interests to the chartering company of the ship "NOOR 1" and his telephone conversations with a person involved in the case at the time of the arrest of the gang and the confiscation of drugs. Three years after the arrest of "NOOR 1" there are elements that need to be investigated and the opposition appears to protect someone, for whom these elements arise. The only thing that he did, ladies and gentlemen, the President of the Independent Greeks was to urge the sentenced to life Jannousakis to tell the truth and to reveal directly what information he had toward justice. Mr Panos Kammenos's intervention was institutional. What is envisaged, the criminal collapsing of this action, New Democracy's top lawyers, this unprecedented fact of criminalisation, how does the New Democracy see it? Does he understand it as a question of government deterioration, indicating it on a major political issue? Questionworthy is the fact that Civic Opposition, instead of realising what is at stake in this case, is exhausted in micropolitical references. Instead of dealing with politics, you have to deal with pragmatic and parapolitical. Just think that if this shipment had been channelled to Greece and Europe, thousands of young children, boys and girls, they would be faced with death and their families with despair. The will and braveness of the President of the Independent Greeks to reveal the circuit and protect the candidate victims from the scourge of drugs demonstrates its sensitivity. The crowns of your Vice President, gentlemen, Mr. Adoni Georgiadis on a spiral will fame down. The case of "NOOR 1" relates to the national security and the status of President of the Independent Greeks Mr Panos Kammenos as Minister of National Defence obliges him to assist in the investigation of the case. If the Kammenos - Giannosakis conversation had anything strange and different from what really happened, why did Panos Kammenos inform the Justice Minister so that he could act because of his authority? But, gentlemen, to you, the anger of our people found its absolute application, "violence bakes the bread, but does not cheer it up." The judiciary's decision after a thorough months' investigation to file the case for all the involved has surprised you. You know all that you've caused is a fireworks show, as well, you know that fireworks are shining, but they don't last. And yours really had a minimum duration and you fell back into the dark and you became shadows again. But, gentlemen, we don't fear the shadows. The shadows are proof that there is light and we are determined to dismantle them, bringing them all to light, which, gentlemen, you of the Great, and of the Minor Antipolitics have never done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u44	Mr. Katsiki, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u45	I'll be back in a minute, Madam President. He never dropped light in the tragic period of the Stock Exchange. We never learned the way to money for the armaments supplies. We have never heard convincing excuses for divesting the public property at reasonable prices and restarting them to highest people. Let us not talk about the 'SIEMENS' scandal, the pillaging of the insurance funds, the Olympic works fair and how much more. In fact, not in the number. But, Madam President, Mr Voutsis, should this House consider the need to amend Rule 144 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure on the establishment, establishment and operation of committees of inquiry? Should proposals for consideration be made to avoid phenomena, such as today, where we are discussing dictated publications? We risk entrepreneurial interests to guide actions of parliamentary parties. Finally, I believe that a majority of colleagues will perceive the built and false of the case and reject the New Democracy proposal to set up a committee of inquiry to the detriment of a minister who did the right and the right. Thank you very much and thank you for your tolerance, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u46	My tolerance is exhausted in ten minutes. You two spoke thirteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u47	Madam President, I apologise and thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u48	Marios Georgiadis is the next speaker from the Centron Association. Here, Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u49	Thank you very much, Madam President. Do not say inaccurate, you have not supported the coexistence agreement, ladies and gentlemen of the ANELs. We supported it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u50	Did I say that thing?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u51	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u52	Did I say I supported the symbiosis pact?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u53	You said in your speech 'we supported the coexistence agreement'. I guess you mean as government in general.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u54	It means "cohabitation pact" SYRIZA - ANEL.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u55	He might mean that, Mr. Tasouula, of course. Ladies and gentlemen, we in the Central Association, as well as any democratic and responsible citizen, do not like the sport of anthropophagia and in general public cannibalism in particular. We have always looked for the cause of interlocutory, so that phenomena do not occur in the future. However, what the media have referred to in the last few months in this particular case have been in the capacity of the Minister and in the effort of the government to bundle, creating bad impressions, both for Greece and for our army. I submit to the minutes of the relevant publication. It's in English. Those who can't read it, instruct your advisors to translate it. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] If we occasionally find one or two guilty persons and imprison them, we are surely washing out the sins of the political system and of the interlocutory, which is systematically indicted on the citizens' backs. But if we cut off a head and they blow up ten more like Lernaia Hydra, then we just do a hole in the water. However, this does not mean that justice should not do its job whenever there are certain elements which incriminate any political person. The immunity of the legislator and of the executive should not be used to carry out unlawful actions. However, political games should not be played on the back of justice. It is not possible, in other words, to blame one with unfounded evidence only to gain a partisan advantage for alpha or beta. Justice must always stand independent, impartial and blind. This requires a distinction of powers. It is the last stronghold of democracy, and so it must remain. For a combination of opposition, the easiest thing is to criticise the faces of the government. We've been used to it all these years. In the "blame game" you are all doctors. But where we are always lacking, ladies and gentlemen, it is in the alternative. One is cursed in here as if we were on the field and we expect Parliament to be turned into a arena. We are not, gentlemen, in a arena or in a theater. We're not doing a show in here. If Mr. Kammenos and every politician are talking to isovites, it is an indication for investigation. It's over and out. Simple as that. Any committee of inquiry and justice that they have to investigate is whether the established acts of Mr Kammens mean something else, which is illegal or irregular. And I ask: has something changed in the actions of justice following the actions of Mr Kammenos? Did anyone take advantage without having to? Has Mr. Kammenos intervened in the work of justice? Have there been underground routes that harmed the rule of law and society? That is what we need to investigate, ladies and gentlemen. Everything else is political movements of impression and micro-political paedophileism. The New Democracy is looking at this case as a lazy but only to unleash the ANELs, if it comes to power. The fall of SYRIZA and of the Independent Greeks, however, ladies and gentlemen, as soon as you are in a hurry to come to power, must be done by legitimate and democratic means. Justice should not be concerned if Mr Mitsotakis is rushing to the Prime Minister's chair. Institutions are institutions and parliamentarianism is of incomprehensible value to democracy. On the substance of the matter, Mr Kammenos, although he admits it, he does not give us much light. In his reply to the House in a relevant timely question on July 26, 2017, he chose to squash even more with insufficient explanations, which do not match a person who has such a high position. The disorientation was the definition of the answers. He was singing something for bonds, for Koskottas, for CCI, for decks in Mykonos, for the show "The Trial of Monday", for Simitis and so many other incoherences that had nothing to do with the relevant timely question. But he finally managed to lure the Justice Minister in his defence, if any of his burdens were to be borne. If there is a breach of duty here - the confusion of powers - we must, as I said at the outset, investigate it thoroughly. And if there is indeed evidence of this, it is unacceptable that those responsible do not feel the size of the charges and agree to the setting up of any committee of inquiry. We realise, of course, that rosés are many, the chair warm and many times may be sweeter than honor. If there is a crime at the end, it must be borne solely by Mr Kammenos and only by him to suffer the consequences. According to a recent opinion poll, the army is at the top of the institutions trusted by Greek citizens. This is because the army has not so far been devastated at such a level as the other institutions have been devastated because of disrepute and struggling. So let's also save an institution. It'll do us good. I have here a relevant table where the army is in the first place of institutions' confidence. You know what's up? The Government, Parliament, political parties, media and trade unions. That's not what the Greek citizen trusts. They don't trust us here! I present the relevant table in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] For years, gentlemen of the Government, you have been accusing PASOK and New Democracy of using and partying the army in their own interests. And now you're trying to use it as a swimming pool for Mr. Kammenos. Fortunately, at least there are the members of the armed forces on earth, air, sea, these heroic pilots who save the price of the Armed Forces, since the Minister responsible for others is curbing, not to mention recent articles on leisure, gambling, etc. She's not here. If, with the good - and I personally hope - it turns out that Mr Kammenos has not committed anything, he may remain in his place safely and safely. Whether or not to be removed from the government is a matter for the Prime Minister. Whether it was effective or not in his work, the poll and the Greek citizen will judge it. If it has not committed an offence, if the investigation finds nothing insulting for him and his actions, we as a legislator and as a opposition, have no right to accuse him and ask for his resignation. That is not how democracy works and the institutions and you all know that very well in the Chamber. No one's guilty until proven guilty, but on the contrary. In conclusion, we are always in favour of investigating any factual and factual evidence showing unlawful acts or omissions. It's all in the light, that is. Whether or not we support this examination will be seen from the length of the debate and from whether or not we will be convinced that it should be done at the end of the day. However, the one we are calling for is Mr Kammenos himself, who should have done so by himself in the first place, shown braveness and consent in that direction. I'll close with you. Ladies and gentlemen, if I were Arkas, I would make the next book of the series "Isovite" better and enjoy the government until tears. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u56	Mr. Amyra, you're next. Mr. Amyras has the floor from the river.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u57	Madam President, would you excuse me for a moment?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u58	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u59	I'd like to file the papers. I'm not making advertising in newspapers, and I'm not mentioning their name, Minister. I just want to ask one question. Didn't you read Mr. Vaxeban's paper presenting the statement, the Ms. Prosecutor's memorandum? That's not bad. The question is how these documents arrived from 22 August and while the case-file had not yet been closed. Please, I submit for the Minutes two publications, the first on 22 and the second later from another site.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u60	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u61	The speaker has gone up to Stepma, but if you want, say what you want, so that you don't lose your charity.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u62	Madam President, it seems to me how these documents are produced from reporting, and you draw from this journalistic survey, and you cannot know whether it is true or not, and you say 'as the prosecutor has said.' But don't you keep any reservation? Don't you keep any reservations? And not just that, but you said something else, Mr President. You said the government transferred, after the prosecutor's visit, the warden in northern Greece. I'm telling you, what you said I wouldn't call it false, because you might not be conscious. It's completely inaccurate and misinformed, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u63	Check out the papers, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u64	We'll see it, but I'm telling you again: if you're counting on your speeches in a report, without knowing if they're cross-referenced or not, then you're being exposed. Because they are documents that are absolutely confidential, which no one can know.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u65	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u66	Mr. Athanasios, let go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u67	Mr. Athanasios, if I make a reference to a report, a report, then is it assumed that this is true?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u68	Easy, Mr. Contony. We don't pay off to you...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u69	You should say that to be recorded.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u70	Madam President, I ask again for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u71	No, Mr. Papatheodorou, that makes no sense. If there is anything, the parliamentary representative will complete it. It makes no sense now to exchange views all the time. Mr. Amyras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, we must ask ourselves - and I ask you - Mr Kammenos where he is. Shouldn't he be in the Chamber? Are we talking about setting up a committee of inquiry or not about its own case?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u73	He'll be here, Mr. Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u74	He'll be here. When's he coming to the vote only? Anyway, we're going down. All in the light! Really tell me, ladies and gentlemen, how many times have we heard Mr Tsipras in this Chamber over the last two and a half years say it and say it again, 'all in the light'? Irrespective of times. How many times have we heard Mr Tsipras and Mr Kammenos accusing the so-called 'old political system' of covering his actions? A dozen times. How many times has the Prime Minister assured the citizens that he will not let anything fall down, everything will be in the light, everything will be in the air to break the truth, whatever truth? Thousands of times. But tell me, how many times has a Minister been detected talking to a drug isovita in prison on his assumption? Not one. Not one. So it is time for all of us to prove that this 'all in light' is meant, and first of all, your government, the SYRIZA - ANEL government. Also, let's think about the other one. Mr. Kammenos is always known in court. He files lawsuits - appeals and he doesn't let anything fall for his own assumptions down. Now, won't we give him a chance to defend himself? "Address if you dare," said Mr. Kammenos here the Step three months ago. Well, opportunity for the Minister of Defense too to prove that he meant it to you SYRIZA and ANEL MPs that you support him. Vote in favour of the examination, so that Mr Kammenos spoke with a narrow voice in the Chamber, 'if you dare consider it', make it a reality. We have also heard Mr Tsipras' argument that he does not need to be examined, because justice has taken the case. There are two reasons why this is not the case: in Chamber 151, on the first floor, the Committee of Inquiry into Health is meeting. Is it not the case of the 'ERRIKO DON' in justice? Is that not inconsistent with the fact that a case is going on in justice? In one case, therefore, the SYRIZA and ANEL Members cannot set up an inquiry into the matter in the course of court proceedings and, on the other, reject it with the alibi of justice. As soon as the Health Examination works, the same can be done here. The second reason why I would say that Mr Tsipras' argument does not need to be examined, because justice has taken over the case, is not as follows: Justice has sent the file to Parliament. The Attorney's Prosecutor, Mr. Brakumatsos, sent us in plenary his findings and, in the case of political persons, states that the complaint was sent to the Greek Parliament. So we're invited to decide on Mr. Kammenos and no one else. As for the committees of inquiry, the SYRIZA ANEL, the committees of inquiry have them as peanuts. May I remind you of the committee of inquiry decided here by Parliament on how the country was in the first and second memorandums? What happened to this examination, ladies and gentlemen, to SYRIZA and ANEL? She went long. She didn't get a conclusion, she didn't go on with her work or anything. Also, should we enrich the exam pulse of the exams and, in the Baroufakis period, as Mr Varoufakis himself proposes and indirectly threatens? And imagine Stavros Theodorakis had had made the conversation with the isovites about drugs. Imagine the telephone, Mr. George Mavrotas, who I see here, had spoken with an isobite twelve times. You can see what would have happened in and out of the Chamber. But the thing is one: did the Minister of National Defence have to have successive telephone conversations with a isobet for drug trafficking? Every citizen has the right to appeal to state officials to seek his justice, even if he is, of course, a convicted of the most detested crimes. But what distinguishes democracy from totalitarianism is the rules, the rules that must be observed by everyone, especially those who have any form of power. The distinction of powers here has become a tire in this case of Kammenos. I note here the position of Mr Stavros Tsakrakis, whose scientific authority I believe no one will be found in the Chamber to reduce it, except perhaps the current Legal Adviser of the Minister. So Mr. Tsakakis answers Mr. Tsakrakis, the Government Representative, who said: "There is no law prohibiting Mr. Kammenos from speaking with a court." The answer, therefore, by mouth, Mr Tsakakis, says: "Of course there is. This is forbidden by the constitutional provision of the discrimination of powers. Once someone is imprisoned, and if not imprisoned, even just a accused person, the executive must refrain from any contact with him, from any involvement in the work of justice. The SYRIZA - ANEL Government commits institutional scandals, which have never been done.' That is what Mr Tsakakis points out about the case. And if something has to be extracted from today's debate, it is to preserve the distinction of powers as an eyewitness. The more we tolerate lavaries - so to speak to the people - between executive and legislative power, executive and judiciary, the more unprotected citizens feel. No one has immunity. No one's above the law. No Minister, who has nothing to do with the case, can answer the phone and talk to an isobite. These are just things, so the daily citizen, who has very good inside - I believe - perceives the sense of law. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] For these reasons, therefore, I call upon you Members of the SYRIZA and the ANEL to do the favor of Mr. Kammenos, who said to us "do your mind" and vote in favour of the examination. We, on the river, tell everything to light, not to the semi! We say yes to the exam, not to the cover. And a small hysterical document, because it has become too bad, it has become chaos - just like that - with the roulette of Mr. Kammenos. We have good news for Mr. Kammenos: Mr. Kammene, you won't have to run to "London" the rainy, depressing to play roulette. Your Government, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, by decision 225/25-10-2016, the Committee on Games, decided that they could - and they are already opening - casinos anywhere in Greece without any restriction. The only condition to play is to be over eighteen years old, without even showing an ID. So, Mr. Cammene, no more traveling to London. You'll be able to play roulette in the Cookie. And good profits I wish the government SYRIZA - ANEL! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u75	The last speaker is the Independent MEP, Efstathos Panagou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u76	Madam President, just a minute, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u77	What do you want, Mr. Lazarides?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u78	Things have been said about our President. Mr. Amyras, that is, he's overrun the trouble. Casino licenses weren't given now. They were given to the government...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u79	This debate doesn't make any sense now. I have also called for the debate not to be reduced at the beginning of the sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u80	Madam President, may I answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u81	Sit down, Mr. Amyras. You don't have to. Mr. Panagoulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the committee of inquiry will unfortunately have no effect at all. I'll explain below what I mean. The imagination of Mr. Kammenos is wrathful, because he sees himself as the Greek Hercules Poirot who, bypassing justice, wants to apprehend a criminal offense, the well-known case of "NOOR 1" and bypasses the judicial authorities. Mr. Condonne, I will tell you this: When many years ago, a prisoner from the Corydal Prison asked me to visit him, do you know what I did? I went to the Minister of Justice - it was Thanasis Kanellopoulou - and I said to him: 'Mr. Minister, I have been asked to visit him'. It's a well-known name, I don't want to say it because it's not in life today. He said to me: 'If you want to go, I can call the warden'. Indeed, he called in front of me to the warden. The warden said: 'Can I speak to Mr Panagoulis?'. And he said to me: 'If you would like me, do not come because it can get you into stories'. And I didn't go. That's what Mr. Kammenos should have done. But Mr. Kammens is an unreliable person. He's a fiancée and a fiancée. Twenty-five years ago, ladies and gentlemen - and I have a good Memorandum - wrote the book 'Trorism, theory and Act', which was presented as its own, while the late government representative of the junta, George Georgalas, wrote it. In fact, they had a dispute, because George had sent him out of charge that he had not paid him back. And now, besides Hercules Poirot, he seems to have seen the film "The Godfather" many times with Marlon Brando. As a young Don Corleone, he has copied from the movie what Don Corleone said, that we need to control justice, police and the press. A period of time, ladies and gentlemen, we must say that Mr Marinakis - whom I do not know, apart from photographs - had a flirt with the government, particularly in the past regional elections. They saw, apparently, that they couldn't have Mr. Marinakis, as they had Mr. Calogritsa and they stumbled in a disgraceful way. Because it is disgraceful to go and influence a isovit, a prisoner telling him "Help, say Marinakis was a drug dealer and we are here". It's the greatest disgrace to appear in a court of law and accuse a man of something he may not have done. It is now presented except Hercules Poirot and as Don Corleone. Madam President, you told us this morning that Mr Kammenos will be here in ten minutes. I would like to remind you that in that book, which was written to him twenty-five years ago, Georgalas had signed the "Theory and Act", as I said, he presented the late Andreas Papandreou as the leader of "17 November". He involved journalists, such as Mrs Lina Alexiou, Mr George Economy and persons of the broader democratic and left forum. And it was about you, Mrs Christodoulopoulos. You liked 17 November, really? Did you like her? He involved my friend and myself - I don't see him here - Nikos Manios, Pericles Korovesis and many others in that book, which said they were members and executives of "17 November". Today's issue is serious, ladies and gentlemen. It raises mainly a matter of moral order and political unreliability. In short, your inclusive moral advantage risk goes for a walk. This issue is raised by the citizens outside, who are on the move. Because you're trying by every means to influence the mass media. It is no accident, ladies and gentlemen, that I have been excluded from the channels for years now. Since the 2000s, I was the only one, like the former President of the Parliament, Apostle Kaklamanis, who called the canalarchs "the junta of the canalarchs". So he wanted Mr. Kammenos to ride Mr. Marinakis. He couldn't and found the most inappropriate way to involve a man in a case, indeed dark. And he promised Giannousakis "Here we are. We've been rooted. We will be in power for many years and in one, in two, in three years, you will be out of prison." There are the tapes that, when they are made public - I am committed to this, ladies and gentlemen, at the moment - will appall the entire Greek people with what the Minister of National Defence promised the alleged Yannousakis, his contacts with the other Christofordis - what they called him - and all that. Ladies and gentlemen, the question of committees of inquiry has caused many problems. People don't believe us anymore. The revision of the Constitution, which will abolish this prerogative of the Ministers, the Law on Responsibility of Ministers, has been announced by the previous and this government. However, the most important thing, ladies and gentlemen, is that the parties here today are being invited to state this very well - it is with regard to parliamentary immunity. The parties will have to commit what comes from here. There are dozens of cases and complaints for Mr. Kammenos, and he could well remove his immunity and go to his natural judges, Mr. Kammenos. The parties, however, do not commit themselves to this matter. The parties must commit today that, when it comes to criminal offences - and I am not talking about an article by a Member or a speech by a Member, which everyone can sue - we must come to the House and vote on. And I'll confess something to you. I have never come to Parliament to vote for immunity, because I consider it a comical one. Two months ago, the waiver of immunity was requested for my face, for slandering defamation to someone. I presented myself to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and said: 'Lords, I call for my parliamentary immunity to be waived'. I said that in the plenary. For a few votes, it didn't come because the SYRIZA line didn't pass. Many colleagues from SYRIZA have not voted. For this reason, representatives of the New Democracy, the Communist Party of Greece, the River, the PASOK, the Independent Greeks, "behold Rhodes, behold and jump". Removing parliamentary immunity when a case comes in this Chamber. Or do you know what people say outside? "You're all the same" and he believes that. We may not all be the same, but with our behaviour here in Parliament, we are. Ladies and gentlemen, although I do not believe that this committee of inquiry will perform, I will vote in favour of setting up a committee of inquiry. And what's the result? After two, three months when it's over, each party will make its own conclusion, SYRIZA will make that Mr. Kammens has no responsibility, Mr. Kammens's party has no responsibility, and the other parties will make similar findings. Finally, Madam President, I would like to say that the case of the Minister of National Defence does not need a committee of inquiry because Mr Kammens does not belong in this sphere. He needs specialist psychologists! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u83	The speaker's cycle is completed. We are now entering the single list of speakers. We start with Mrs Panagiotis Kozobol - Amanatidis from SYRIZA and the time is now six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's process, initiated on the initiative of the New Democracy, is a move of despair for the lack of a programming speech, a move to disorientate public opinion from the country's development and recovery course, a move highly hypocritical. It does not explain otherwise how for three years the New Democracy and the media, which have been operating as its press offices, have not mentioned a single word about one of the biggest drug-trafficking cases in the country, perhaps even in the world and today, breaking its clothes not in itself, but about matters of procedure being investigated by justice. Ladies and gentlemen, the provision of Rule 144 of the Rules of Procedure provides for a committee of inquiry to examine matters of public interest. I have carefully studied the proposal from the New Democracy, seeking those facts which constitute the issue of public interest. Here's the finds. I read exactly as it is in the New Democracy's proposal the first real incident: "Convergence Mr. Kammens with the sentenced person sentenced to life sentence Giannusakis". This is the real incident. All the rest are crises and assessments, for example, that the Minister of Defence's claim that the conversation concerned exclusively the encouragement of the convicted person to reveal the truth and not for substance reasons, but because they were made public - it says - 12 phone conversations over a total of twenty-minutes. We have also seen a perseverance of our previous colleagues over the duration, as if the matter were the length and the minutes of the conversation and not in this conversation. Second real incident: The condemnor's phone message to the Minister of Defence, "Is it certain that he will come?" And the visit of a prosecutor to his detention store automatically, after this message, became a matter of public interest. These are the two facts for which a committee of inquiry is requested. Because the following two facts described are not relevant to this Minister of National Defence. The third incident is the isovite's phone messages to the journalist Triantafylopoulos. Now, why is the Minister involved in this? I don't know. The fourth incident is the publicity on the Internet of a port official's conversations: “They exterminate the Mitsotakis family directly”, etc. That's what the port clerk says. Finally, these are the facts. But let us leave the arbitrary interpretations of the authors of the proposal and see what exactly public interest is. I am not asking for a parliamentary committee to be set up on the basis of articles, but I omit the fact that it does not concern sensitive authors of its proposal the way in which the publications have leaked, I omit the silence of serious criminal cases and the transfer of the centre of gravity to the phones instead of the three tons of heroin and I classify the data. On the one hand, I have the facts I have mentioned, the talks and whether or not this sms will come and, on the other, I have the answers of the three ministers, namely Defence, Justice and Island Policy, to parliamentary scrutiny, according to which the talks were held, that the current legislative framework provides for specific procedures for the settlement of serious crimes and the detection of criminal organisations, and, on the other hand, that for the way in which the prosecutor responsible has worked, there is already a finding of the prosecutor responsible for putting these complaints in the file. Ladies and gentlemen, why is the Minister of National Defence accused? For a moral automobile in the misuse of power. But these complaints have already been filed. As regards the essential aspects of the case, therefore, and in particular legal aspects of the case, the Chief Prosecutors’ Prosecutors’ Prosecutors’ Prosecutors’ Prosecutors’ Prosecutors’ Prosecutors’ Prosecutors’ Prosecutors’ Prosecutors’ Prosecutors’ Prosecutors’ Prosecutors’ Prosecutors’ Prosecutors’ Prosecutors’ Prosecutors’ Prosecutors’ Prosecutors’ Prosecutors’ Prosecutors’ Prosecutors’ Prosecutors’ Prosecutors’ Prosecutors’ Proshops’ He considered that complaints about misuse of power by the Prosecutor Ms. Ghiva are completely unfounded. By thus deciding indirectly that the Minister of National Defence did not act irregularly and that he did speak with the isoviously convicted only to contribute to the settlement of the judiciary. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, today that you are aware of the prosecution order, are you insisting on fireworks? Do you accept this crisis? The authors of the proposal, who break their garments, baptising intervention in justice against judgments - which, incidentally, are published in legal magazines - are commented on and judged by lawyers, by the legal world and by all citizens. So they themselves who blame us for commenting on judicial decisions, intervene in judicial investigation in order to manipulate justice. Because that is exactly what is involved in the work of justice, whatever interference before the judiciary. In conclusion, it is clear that there is no question of public interest. Therefore, not only is there any reason to set up a committee of inquiry, but its recommendation will hamper judicial investigation and contribute to the cover-up of such a serious case... [[This is where the ending bell of the honourable Member's speech is ringing.]] Wait a minute, Madam President. I'm done. ...unless that's the target or others. The aim may be to destabilise the country after the destructive policies pursued by New Democracy and PASOK again find its stepping-up, to disorientate public opinion, because catastrophe is not consistent with the positive course of all economic indicators and to reduce unemployment, the need to cover up, since the endless anti-corruption front of the government opens up serious cases with executives and members of both parties that ruled the country for forty years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u85	Mr Constantine Javarra has the floor for six minutes. Then we will bypass and speak by Mr Papagelopoulos, Deputy Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u86	Thank you very much, Madam President. As soon as I arrived at the Step, a dear colleague, as well as the former Minister of Justice and an eminent professor of the Law School of the University of Thessaloniki, have already given us the way in which the majority is facing this request. It is trying to encapsulate the issue, which is raised by this request for criminal law, morals and many other aspects, which may not be so important, when one thinks of a serious and responsible Member, that the New Democracy today is doing nothing but to raise the question of the force that the opposition must have in a democracy that respects its role and its mission. Mr. Colleague, don't be fooled. Today, one is the issue. Do you accept or accept the role of Officer Opposition as part of the criticism and control that restores not only the 1975 constitution, not just the science of constitutional law, not just the case law of all international courts? Above all, what you need to know is that by striving in this way to reject the application, you do nothing but shrink this dialogue, which has to be developed here today, in an attempt to undemocratic consolidation of an arbitrary climate. This is about the ever-responsibleness of the majority in a tyrannical regime against minority. I'm not saying that. Most of you, especially the professor, have known that since 1834, since the first volume of Alexis De Tokville's great and serious work on democracy in America, all politicians, all constitutionalists, all journalists now have been aware that if there is any danger in the functioning of the democratic culture, it is the way in which the majority exercises its rights. And when these rights are exercised in such a way as to establish a system of almightyness, then this civilisation is becoming democratic, even though it is becoming tyrannical. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, all of us so far are trying to revise or enrich themselves with democratic values of all constitutions but trying to rationalise it by two means. The first instrument is parliamentary relations, that is, the relationship between minority and opposition, with the majority. This relationship is a relationship of confidence which, as far as the government enjoys it, is entitled to be a government. Because you obviously realise that it makes no sense for a government to be parliamentary and active when it only has the majority confidence. What he deserves to have is the confidence of the minority. That is why the second instrument is parliamentary control. Parliamentary control, in addition to normal measures, has a top one, which is Article 68(2), for setting up a committee of inquiry. And it's not just the 1975 Constitution that does that. For the first time, the Constitution of 1927 did. At such a turbulent time in Greece, those who, at the time, as representatives of the Greek people had drafted this Constitution, had included in the provision of Article 55 the duty of Parliament to set up a committee of inquiry if this 1/3 of the Members of Parliament so request. That is exactly what the 1975 Constitution says. He says this about which you are every word in his text, that Parliament is obliged to be committees of inquiry when they ask for it to be sixty Members and when they vote for it a hundred and twenty Members. Here, then, is a glorious democratic glorious field for you! Will you stand today to be as democratic as our Constitution imposes? So will you accept that if this proposal brings together the hundreds of twenty Members provided for in Article 68 of the Constitution, this committee should be set up? If you look right at the past, there's a precedent. In 1987, the late Constantine Mitsotakis, as Chief of Officer Response at the time, had raised this matter again. He had sent a letter and a question to the top nine constitutionalists in the country, who replied with memorials and opinions, to be kept in Parliament's archives. Among these were Menesis, Chachos, Ververis, Raikos. All of these, with one voice, apart from Mr Kasimatis, who was then a legal adviser to the Prime Minister at the time, said that this measure of the Committee of Inquiry is a means of parliamentary scrutiny. It is an instrument that belongs to the sovereign power of the Opposition to use it and that is why, if it raises a hundred and twenty votes, Parliament should accept that this instrument exists at the disposal of the Opposition. Otherwise, ladies and gentlemen - and I shall end, Madam President - if the exercise of this parliamentary control, which belongs to the opposition, was subject to or depended on the majority being made available to use it and to have it at its disposal, then you realise that we are before a huge event involving the democracies. I believe that you, who, as you tell us here, believe in democracy and have democratic sensitivities, will not let this case pass without confirming how democrats you are. So let's go!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u87	Mr. Javarras invites us to make original interpretations now. Now Mr. Papagelopoulos will have the floor. Parliamentary representatives may also be written in the intervening room if no chief is inserted. Here, Mr. Papagelopoulos, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u88	Madam President, I call on all of you, in advance, to apologise. Please for a two-minute derogation of time, because I thought I had two quarters, and today I learned that I had one. I broke my word as far as I could, but I'm gonna need your tolerance. Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in democracy, it is absolutely legitimate that the individual opposition is under strict control and that the government in question is strictly judged. However, it must not go beyond certain limits, because democracy itself is then severely affected. Today, therefore, there is no need for screaming or for grabbing communal lines, but for sobering, legal and reasonable arguments, because this is not a purely political issue, but it also relates to the functioning of independent justice. Today I am given the floor in the Minister's capacity, but because the issues of today's debate are purely legal, I have chosen to speak not as a politician - which I do not manage very well - but mainly as a former prosecutor and partly as a ordinary citizen, who has experienced the political life of the place for too many years. Before presenting my views as a simple citizen, however, I would like to refer to something that concerns me personally. In recent times there have been reports of the investigation against Mr Marinakis, with a direct reference to my face. For example, I read two of you: "The investigation of Diva started after the order of Papagelopoulos at the Xeni Dimitrios of the Ice Arena. From what the finding of Brakoumatsou says, it appears that the whole construction in the Giannusakis case, Christoforides, Kammenos, had as the starting point the office of Deputy Minister of Justice Dimitris (Mimis) Papagelopoulos, who assessed as being of interest an anonymous letter, a press release, two unsigned deposits of the isovici and promoted them to the Prosecutor of the Pagos Board of Appeal. Ladies and gentlemen, I assure you - and this can be confirmed by those who know me - that conspiracy and construction do not like me at all. Instead, I despise them. So I prefer to reveal them and neutralize them. So we have to say: late November, early December 2016, a complaint against Mr Marinakis came to my office. This complaint was registered on 6 December 2016 and received a protocol number 2220. This complaint, as you all easily understand, because of the large number of complaints, complaints, requests and other documents that flood my office and I have not read it or been informed about it. It was handled by my associates, and after about a month or so, according to the regular tactics of my office, the chief prosecutor of the Ice Bay. The transfer document doesn't bear my signature. This is another proof that I ignored the complaint to the end. I read to you - because it is of great importance - to word the relevant transfer note, with the protocol number I told you, the date of Athens, 3-1-2017, on the protocol number registered in my office and "we shall send you his attached report so that you can be informed and taken any action you have taken". Signature of mine doesn't bear. She was signed by the head of my office. Another proof that I ignored the complaint to the end. The Prosecutor of the Ice Arrow received the complaint, studied it, assessed it, and during the unregulated, independent judicial judgement, ordered Mrs. Giva to carry out a preliminary examination, as shown by the Brakoumatsou finding, which - not to be misunderstood - I found it on the Internet. [[The President-in-Office of Parliament, Mr Marios GEORGIADEIS, takes over the President-in-Office's seat at this point.]] I will submit to the Minutes and to the publications - I shall not refer to newspapers - that anyone who wants to find them, because I do not like to target any forms or people. Also, I'm filing for the minutes and the document I sent to the M.A. of the Ice Arrow. [[At this point the Deputy Minister for Transparency and Human Rights Mr Dimitrios Papagelopoulos presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] After that, I would like to make two points. The first point is that the complaint remained in my office, before it was forwarded to Mrs Demetriou, about a month ago. If I had set up or participated in the construction, wouldn't I send it much sooner to start the procedures? I would point out, secondly, that I did not order the investigation, but Mrs Demetrius. It is obvious, then, that the publications about setting up the construction by me do not touch me. Ladies and gentlemen, I now come to the point of the case. For seven years the Greek people have endured the crimes of others without being blamed either by the current government. Nevertheless, the people tolerated the hurricane of the memoranda and will soon find a safe haven in the memorial era. We hope so, and we all wish that. But only hope and hope are not enough. We all need a collective effort and the broadest possible consensus of the political forces. But instead of consensus and harmony to get away from our place and people from the past and to go forward, some stupid thermo-heads dream of special courts. For example, I will mention that a distinguished columnist - I will not mention his name, I repeat that I do not like to target people or newspapers - is repeatedly trying to terrorise the government, manipulate justice and criminalise the country's political life. He keeps writing that the government will be leaving soon, but the judges will continue to stand trial. And for those who don't get the hint, he came back and came to write that the Syrians will be tried for illegal parking and the judges will be throwing them alive. Watch out, gentlemen of SYRIZA, don't park illegally. Apart from these indicative reports, there were others about my face. I will bow down to mention some to show who I am. I was described as the "Polakis of the rich", being called "the iron fist in the velvet glove of the left government", described as "the hot knife that tears the soft butter of the public administration". Because these didn't catch a place, now they're starting to write that I'm in discomfort, that the Prime Minister will take me away from the government. None of this touches me. But let us get back to the point. In addition to the above mentioned, there is an overall attempt to criminalize the political life of the place, invention and promotion of nonexistent scandals, guidance or even worse manipulation of righteousness. The aim is obvious, that the government should be affected in every way, to reduce as much moral advantage as possible against the old political system. Today's debate is part of this. Before we come to the request for the committee of inquiry we are discussing, I would like to remind you that in the past there have been attempts to criminalise the political life of the country and the results have been painful for democracy, for the political system, for justice. In fact, several people were either morally or - even worse - biologically. Mr. Chief of Officership, you will surely know that your infamous father has suffered all his and his close colleagues to give them criminal responsibilities with protagonists and even judicial officers. Fortunately, there was the excellent political sensation, and why not Andreas Papandreou's magnificence, who, although previously afflicted by Special Courts, put an end to the plans of the dangerous ones, for democracy, brain morbidity. The phrase of Constantine Karamanlis that political leaders are not put in prison, but simply the people are sending them home, has been fully implemented. After the fall of PASOK in 2004, one of the protagonists of the construction of criminal responsibilities in the Mitsotakis government changed with the same ease turned against PASOK. The older ones will remember, the younger ones let them know. Again after 2009, he changed his camp and took the lead in the criminalisation of the Karamanlis government's events. Yesterday, I read in the newspaper "CURRENT REPUBLIC" that in a trial in progress he was accused, who said in his apology that he was asked to say certain things and names, otherwise he would be in trouble. Specifically they said to him: “A small name we only want. Say it and leave." He didn't say the name. He didn't say what some people wanted to hear, he didn't succumb to blackmail and he's really in trouble. These, ladies and gentlemen, are tragic about democracy and the political system and we must not allow such phenomena to appear again. Let us now come to the request for a committee of inquiry which we are discussing today. Judicial investigation is under way and if we respect justice, we must wait for the results of this investigation. The prosecutor for the year, an experienced prosecutor, with his in-depth finding - which I repeat has been posted online and I had no access to irregular, illegal - completed the investigation that he had been entrusted with the prosecutor of the Ice Bay. So let us look carefully at the act of archiving Mr Brakoumatsu. Among other things, Mr Brakumatsos has decided that Mrs Diva should not be prosecuted for attempted or committed abuse of power. The case-file, which concerns political persons, has been forwarded to Parliament by the Prosecutor of the Ice Board. Thirdly, the case-file of the part concerning the port, Panagiotis Christofourides, will be forwarded to the Public Prosecutor of the Piraeus Maritime Court on account of competence. And fourthly, a disciplinary review of the disciplinary part of the case will be carried out. It should be noted at this point that Mrs Ghiva has not prosecuted Mr Marinakis. And Mr. Brakumatsos ruled that Mrs. Giva should not be prosecuted. But, as the first-year students of law know, to be a moral automobile, there must be an automobile worker. Also, first year students in law know that the moral automobile in attempt does not exist and is required to do so. What, then, is Mrs Ghiva's act of moral self-defense, Mr Kammenos? Is it not premature, then, for a committee of inquiry to be set up, since the criminal responsibilities of the Port Authority have not yet been assessed by the competent prosecutor of the Naval Court? disciplinary responsibilities in the case, according to Mr Brakoumatsou's finding, will be investigated by the relevant disciplinary bodies, the details of the case-file against political persons are not yet known. It is clear, therefore, that nothing has arisen so far to justify the setting up of a committee of inquiry. In other words, a committee of inquiry will be set up, although disciplinary investigation is pending, criminal investigation against the port is under way, Mrs Diva is not being prosecuted, the case-file against political persons has not been made available to Members to investigate whether there is any evidence justifying the investigation? Oxymoform and an impulse. Is it not safer, then, to expect the above-mentioned procedures to be completed legally and fully correct? Are we not thus actively proving our confidence in justice? Unless the proposal to set up a committee of inquiry is not aimed at seeking the truth, but hides political purposes, it is part of a broader criminalisation of the country's political life and attempts to prejudge justice and manipulate it. But this is institutional decay, and the National Representation can and must prevent it. It is a chance, then, to show who really respect and trust justice and who are pretending to respect it, while in reality they are unequivocally trying to exploit and manipulate it. In the light of the foregoing, therefore, the request for the committee of inquiry must be rejected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended from the bottom Western theory, after having been toured in the report by the Chamber 'VENIZELOS' and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organised and operated, twenty-two members of the Subcommittee on Conflicts between the Member States of the Council of Europe. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, because Parliamentary Representatives are starting and have asked for the floor and the Presidents of the parties, I would ask that we be as precise in time as possible so that we can conclude the meeting as soon as possible on the basis of the time allocated to you. Mrs. Maria Triantafel from SYRIZA has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u90	It is now understandable that every election campaign in the European Union, even if it is not a derby, creates new data. And in the last year we have many such new data that have surprised many, but not all, like Brexit and the rise of the extreme right. There are many analyses on how a society is eventually formed and formed, but it is rarely heard that economic interests support extreme right over time, especially in the midst of a crisis, it seldom sounds that a piece of capital applauds and has a response to serious "gold eggs" and rarely sounds that serious Golden Dawn exists and is simmered in democratic arcs. The bayonets in the European Union are therefore heard. The German elections, as expected, highlighted Angela Merkel as a winner. She was, however, a sad winner. It was a little better than Samaras in 2012. This is a huge issue of what policy will be adopted and implemented in the major European and international issues, migration, relations with the United States of America, Russia, the management of the European Union itself, and of course whether our country will be affected by these developments. And under the weight of election results and the rise of the extreme right, not only rhetoric will be affected, but above all politics on all these issues. Why am I saying all this? Because I think that the topical and major one is that politically established in the European Union today. It'll account for how and why, as well as what's emerging. But that's the reality. And I think that today's debate should also be held, namely the inability of the Opposition to see these changes - I say again - the degradation of political establishments rather than of the establishment. Of course, we must say that it uses old materials and interpretative frameworks that no longer respond to social momentum, such as Scandalology or make news, false news. On the contrary, we have a highly-processed context of populism. It always starts from the theory that Left is totalitarianism or utopia anyway impotent for anything, a theory worked long ago and reinforced by "international" views of "international" entities and organizations and therefore, the left governments are authoritarian, they are abusive, they are stuck in the chair. And that is adopted by a few left-wing people, so there is a double effort to explain. We're losing count. What would happen to say with an appropriate "Voltaire House" issue if it were to do with SYRIZA. For SYRIZA it would at least be a panoramic thing for the New Democracy. Kourveda for the debts of the parties or for the debts of the President of the Officerial Response in the newspaper "Kyrkas" Chania, which begin anyway in some way and proceed. What would all this happen if it happened to SYRIZA? That is why there is a need to elongate our social life of news, which would otherwise have been dissolved in its daily existence. Many times we accuse and support the way in which news is produced and reproduced by some media. But it's New Democracy, it's the right and it's also her rebellious brother, the PASOK, who have no quarrel about this dirty war that these years have been succumbing to the media. We are therefore in the face of a political campaign by the New Democracy of disorientation and not the implementation of the political scene that does no good to anyone and does not end up somewhere. More like today, I'd say it sounds like a fuss. However, he tries to inspire the image that “all of you boil in the same pot.” One thing is certain, the New Democracy has no political agenda. It is completely absent from the very serious issues. It is constantly adapting its tactics and, of course, its only aim is to maintain a type of tension. I think that it can degrade what is small or bigger achieved by the government. Today's debate is extremely disorientative and far from the critical sufferings of the time. It should not be that way. There could be a substantial debate on the drug trade. Not only is there a lot of black trade and money. For example, we can see what has been identified in recent years at customs offices. Of course, this is not a mere trade. He has his own unwritten rules. Of course, this issue, like any such issue, always relates to economic interests. Today, we have re-ported on the anti-institutional interventions of a drug trafficking case, not any case, of course. We are talking about the largest amount of heroin ever found on European soil. Eight deaths. Appointment of the President, who was detained to conduct the trial, for health reasons. The whole debate must take place on the basis of the fact that some drug cartel by means of Greece from the Middle East to Europe, as well as a gun cartel from Europe to the Middle East, are in an intense process of reconstructing. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I call for your tolerance, Mr President. However, it is worth wondering why the New Democracy, but again - and her lately rebellious brother, PASOK - did not ask so many years about the sulaza of such ships in our territorial waters. Or weren't they? What are the reasons why, while with great ease they were worth making terrorists, who, on the basis of terrorism, had no preventative rights, were unable to make laws for all these years - and not to hear about three years SYRIZA - so that they would not go under their noses of "NOOR 1" in the Aegean Sea, turning the country into a clear vine and the governments concerned into suburbs of the black marketers? Here, let's leave the wishes for full debate and see what we can do. Finally, I would say that it must be made clear that there is a reflection of the old and the new. This race is not going to be judged on the headlines and news reports, but on the real politics, the real economy and real communication. The targeting of the Minister of National Defence, when what is happening with Turkey, is questionable by itself. It may be considered a sensitive link to the government’s cohesion or something else. It is surely a key pillar of the government and it is certain that everyone has walked their own path. Perhaps, however, I would say in Civic Antipolitics, before choosing to target the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, it should consider whether during these years of governance SYRIZA - ANEL, the little Alexis taught Panos Kammenos to write with the left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mrs Triantafyllou. Mr Athanasios Theocharopoulos has the floor from the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR, and the parliamentary representative of the Golden Dawn Mr Rabbit follows immediately. I would ask you once more to keep the time. Time's gone. Here you go, Mr. Theocharopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, the absence of NOOR 1 has poured out the involvement of the Minister of National Defence Panos Kammenos in inter-institutional communication with an isovite in a drug trafficking case, but, as has been demonstrated to date, the Government's full cover-up in them. It is truly incomprehensible that the government is plunging these democratic institutions into the globe. The Prime Minister himself said that 'it is inappropriate to set up a committee of inquiry'. This is not the first time that the SYRIZA has not accepted on a matter concerning the government to investigate responsibilities. He wears the moral costume, at the same time as his co-pilot's anti-institutional actions. Mr. Tsipras talks about "the old, corrupt and corrupt system of power", while his co-pilot is the most genuine representative of all of them and, most importantly, the old one. I have even heard Mr Papagelopoulos speak a moment ago about the old political system. We're going crazy! Ladies and gentlemen, we're going crazy. And in a case where we are talking about Mr Kammenos and Mr Papagelopoulos, the previous SYRIZA Member spoke about the old political system. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot imagine why anyone fears the investigation. If the "clean sky lightning is not afraid", the full passage would normally have to be asked by SYRIZA himself today and by Mr. Kammenos himself. You must explain, ladies and gentlemen, to answer all questions. What exactly is the responsibility of a Minister of National Defence is involved in extra-institutional communication with a isovite, a drug-trafficking case. What exactly was said in the talks, twenty-one full minutes, with the isovite, but also in any other relevant talks? The Minister of National Defence has escaped at all levels, abused power, works provocatively. The examples are now daily. But the responsibilities are collective. Mr. Tsipras should already have expelled Mr. Kammenos from the position of the Minister of Defence. How many more examples do it take to understand that he is dangerous to the country? The governance of the country, a country that is being driven by the deep economic and social crisis, a country that is suffering, is not a roulette game. It cannot depend on where the ball will sit each time and bets. A plan, responsibility, seriousness, responsibility is needed, directly retrospectively. Although you are providing support today, this will probably be due to two reasons. Firstly, because cynicism prevails, the logic of 'the purpose justifies the means', with the aim of staying in power and within, acts which often remind of the para-state. Secondly, because there's a stimulus between SYRIZA and Independent Greeks. Third reason I can't find. And finally, since the Prime Minister fully protects and covers his government partner, so is he fully identified with his actions, to answer us: were these talks and their contents in his knowledge? Has he approved Mr. Kammenos's own initiative? To answer, at least, these questions, if he considers that they were not in his knowledge. Ladies and gentlemen, I am referring in particular to SYRIZA's colleagues, all this cover, when the years are over - and this should be said today - will be a black spot for the SYRIZA area. That's my assessment. And unfortunately, she won't be the only one. Because I invite you to wonder what you're doing covering such anti-institutional, at least, actions. Covering, consciously or unconsciously, confirms not only irresponsibility and efficiency, but also a decline when institutions themselves are eroded. The Republic is taking strong blows. For my area, the rule of law and the strengthening of independent principles are the core of our policy. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tsipras, in the most unequivocal way, recently made it clear to the PPC that he has dealt with Mr Kammenos's ethnicist partner, who, according to Mr Tsipras, is the patriotic centre-right. So let the patriotic centred. He said the President of the ANLL does not cause problems, meaning that they are voting together on memorials and measures. It is presented as a defender of Kammenos, ignoring the principles and values of the Left, but also fundamental human rights guaranteed throughout Europe. We are not concerned, however, if Tsipras and Kammenos have an honest and honest cooperation, as the Prime Minister at the IGC said. We are concerned only with the country and we will not allow anyone to put it at risk. Here and now, we have to end the categorization. To fall for plenty of light on the case. To put an end to illegitimate actions reminiscent of para-state and, obviously, they cannot have anything to do with the Left. Ladies and gentlemen - Members of SYRIZA, I invite you to show that there is something left of the principles and values of the Left. That you don't sacrifice everything on the altar of power. You did not do so when the co-pilot imposed on you the dismissal of the Minister of Education and vetoed everything concerning the necessary separation of relations between the state and the Church. You did not do so when with homophobic and racist positions the coexistence pact and the mosque did not vote in order to allow religious freedoms to be exercised. You have even arrived to reward another Kammens for a post of power in the place of the Vice-President of the Parliament. You are incapable of being voted down by your co-pilot on fundamental human rights amendments. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Today, you have one more chance. If you do not even accept the investigation into such a case, you will prove that it is now the case for your relationship with the ANELs the "similarly praised". Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr. Theocharopoulos. The Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr. Rabbit, has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr President. We will start again today to say a few things to get what has been ahead of us in a series. Firstly, if Mr Kammenos and his colleagues were clean and had not done anything wrong and irregular, he should, on their own, have, after all that has been heard at their expense, asked for this committee of inquiry to be set up and finally see if Kammenos is innocent, whether he is involved or anything else. This obsession with SYRIZA - ANEL - those who are allegedly in favour of justice, for transparency, for all of them, but when it comes to the rest of them, not them - shows guilt in itself. So Panos Kammenos, who is most popular in other cases and ask for a committee of inquiry, should all applaud him, see if he is the man innocent and apologise to him. But because he is not innocent, and because he is involved in this scandal, he will surely be exposed. Here, we're dealing with a huge scandal that doesn't only involve Panos Kammenos. It certainly involves the entire government. It involves the Prime Minister, who has been covering him so long after maniac and is directly involved with the Minister of Justice, Mr. Kontonis. Because if the whole matter has been started by the complaints of Giannosakis, who said he was talking to Panos Kammenos and that he was being harassed and threatened, I cannot understand how in the case of Kammenos we are hearing the complaint of Giannosakis, but in the case of Giannosakis, which he denounces, we are not listening to Kontonis. Because Giannousakis mentions features that the prosecutor who entered illegally 23.30 seconds into the night, who did not agree to give either her or her identity, then spoke at 3.30 in the morning with the Minister of Justice, Mr. Kontonis. That's what he says. Why are we getting these out and talking just about Kammenos? Kammens is sure he's involved. But here we need to see if the Condonus has any involvement. He also says that he was threatened by Mr. Kontonis, as well as by a change that he had to deal with with with only a refrescious reason against Giannosakis. He says that after his refusal to take the pressures from an prosecutor, from Kammenos, but also from Kontonis, to accuse an innocent man, as he says about Marinakis - I do not know if Marinakis is innocent or guilty, if he is guilty of all that he has done, we are not talking about the interventions made by some - to give false evidence about Marinakis, and they have taken him to other prisons to avenge him for this process. So I don't understand how New Democracy isn't involved in this debate and Condonis. What's going on here? Also, to say that the New Democracy comes second in the case, because we from a Step of Parliament had reported what has happened since June 6th, we said the complaints we had in our hands and gave concrete evidence on which, from what we saw, the New Democracy and everyone else was then based. Even various media and newspapers began to deal with this issue, and indeed to build up the position of the New Democracy, because on the day I was here on the Step of the House and made this specific complaint, President-in-Office was Mr Kaklamanis, a leading member of the New Democracy. In these complaints we made as Golden Dawn, Mr Kaklamanis had taken not just distances, but he said that all this is not correct and that all this should not be discussed and that it does not concern Parliament. He said that on June 6, and I challenge anyone who wants to see it. Today, Mr Kaklamanis puts the signature of the broad text to set up a committee of inquiry. So let's see who dealt with the matter and who said the truth once again. Also, because no one cares who they were, so that Panos Kammenos may have contacts with Janusakis. Because what was in contact, that is not disputed by anyone, they have all admitted it. In itself this admission is of course incriminating and burdensome to you. But you want to tell us now with various procedural excuses that it is not so and that it could speak and that it did it for good. That's not all right, and you know it very well. You are trying on the basis of a parliamentary majority that you have and which is wide - because, in fact, you are a sad minority in the Greek people right now - to cover behind your finger. Why, then, do we not see who else is involved? How suddenly did Giannousakis arrive to have a cell phone in prison and could he talk to anyone he wanted at all times? So are others involved, as we have said in the first place? Because we had asked for a phone call to be lifted to specific individuals at the first time, and we said that it should be the Flying Phytrakis, the Secretary General of the Ministry of Justice, who is responsible for penitentiary matters and who is directly involved. Removal of telephone calls from Mr. Kontonis, Mr. Kammenos and Mrs. Ghiva. That's where we'd see who, where, how, he's involved. That is where we would see whether there is a criminal organisation that has been done to involve people in a process and to take its tail out on some other issues. So let's see this if you're clean. Why, we like Golden Dawn, when you took us in for criminal organisations, for things that we did not have any involvement, we said from the first moment - we wanted and asked for it - to lift phone secrets. They had been done to us on call secrets because we asked for it. Sadly, for all of you, there were no commands, nor instructions, you simply surfaced and publicized that we discussed with our parents what food we would eat at noon in our home. That's where you came from. So, take it out, you here - we're all asking you to, because you're involved with a huge scandal that's happened. Here, too, I would like to give the Minutes two photos. They're imaging Panos Kammenos. In the first photo is in a pole race, Olympiacos - Vouliagmeni. So he has gone as the Minister and makes an inappropriate gesture to Olympiacos fans for certain reasons, and this case we are discussing is in progress. We have another second photo. He makes a move with his hands that shows he'll put the president of Olympiacos, Vangelis Marinaki in jail. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Lagos, presents for the minutes the above photographs, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So tell me, now, you here if this man can be objective and can function as he needs to give - if he wanted - a solution to this issue. This man with his movements and his destiny seems clearly involved in this case just to put a man in prison. Because we know, we've lived this, we've lived on our side what it's like to be kidnapped at our house and put us in prison because we're supposedly guilty, we don't want this to happen to anyone. We wish for anyone who is guilty of being convicted of anyone who is guilty of entering deep into the prison cells. But setting things up is unacceptable. I repeat, therefore, that this attitude of Kammenos cannot function institutionally and function neutrally in this case. I'll finish by saying something else. For forty-five years, you have all said about independent justice and the New Democracy and the PASOK that you have managed, as well as the current abomination of SYRIZA - ANEL, which is about the left-wing and the so-called far-right. What kind of conflicts these are now, only you know. You have only a co-government for the benefit of the spoon and power. Nothing else unites you, only the benefit to get caught in the chair. So why are you all involved in talking about independent justice, haven't you done what you are evangelizing, forty-three years, for you two and a half years, so that the executive will not have anything to do with justice and judicial authorities? So why should the leadership of justice not be elected by the judge himself? Here's the question. Because you know very well that all of you want to extend your hand and have a direct involvement. Because you all want to have a manipulative justice, a justice and judges who will be afraid, a justice and judges who will be inhabited and treated by you. Because you know very well that everything you have done is illegal and if there are decent and free judges, one day they will judge you all and the consequences will be too heavy. I would like to finish by asking Mr Kammenos first, who is absent once again. I asked him this question in the first conversation we had. Does he know a manolis Hadjisavva? He hadn't answered us. We have a lot to talk about this case. We're not allowed to have time today. I'll talk to you in other conversations. Let me say that in the anti-Christian and anti-Christian conflict SYRIZA - ANEL will not be allowed to pass. We heard back a few days ago a member of the Ministry of Interior, a Pulakis who did not know him or his mother until a moment ago, but with these statements that we learned him, to speak again against Christianity and against Orthodoxy. So that you do not constantly trespass on the Constitution, you democrats and humanists, the Greek Constitution in Article 3 speaks of Greece as Christian, Orthodox, who must respect it. Keep up with what you do, because atheists are, let's at least be democrats, as you say.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u95	Mr. Theocratic has the floor from SYRIZA for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the days of the 'chamber' have ended, the era of the scandal has passed unreturned. Everything in the light and we're the ones who'll make it all out in the light, all in justice. Compliance with the laws in favour of the interests of the Greek people. That is our obligation and that is what we have implemented and implemented. All scandals will be investigated and investigated. "Every man sitting on his bench" and he's already sitting on his bench. Responsibility will be attached to those who are destroying and destroying the country and are already being attributed. These scandals, which we are investigating with our own examinations, have led to the bankruptcy of the country, to the reduction of wages and pensions, to the armies of the unemployed. No one was investigating that. We're investigating them. I have used, ladies and gentlemen, a tough word from the mafia world,'summerly', because that is what this is all about. Silence in the complete break-up of the two and a half tons of heroin and if someone breaks the "partner", he is involved, accused, tested, and in the file shows that some were found dead. The world, the citizens, the people want us to look for the essence of the scandals. We do, New Democracy and PASOK don't. Look, ladies and gentlemen, the difference. We examined loans to the media and the political parties PASOK and New Democracy. This is the essence of the scandals, that's what the Greek people want to know. We've searched them, sent them to justice, and they've already been charged. They were then told by the Opposition colleagues: “What are we looking for now? Contracts are legal. We've fallen out”, etc. They justified both canals and themselves, of course. However, we found myself with a thorough investigation - I had the honour of being also a member of this committee - the elements of the loan contracts that were carabinas, and we sent a thorough conclusion to the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay, which has already persecuted two major publishers. At the same time, the two major parties have left out for the 200 million that they still owe and do not come out to deny that they have made an agreement with the funds so that they can get rid of them. That's what we do with health research. We are investigating the scandals that thirty years in health have been done at the expense of the Greek people. They sinked the insurance funds, became a party at the expense of the insured, and it was found that health was in a terrible state of scandals against scandals that took place. Health check is working and will pay off. Some people stole and we have to find them and we'll find them. It has a double purpose, namely to punish those responsible and stop doing the same. What's going on in this case? What is the point of this case, ladies and gentlemen? A ship of two and a half tons of heroin has been caught. Some investigations took place, some of them went to jail. However, the brain of the criminal cord has not been found - our rapporteur said so - the leader, the bosses of this story. The Minister for Defense has received some information with which he can, but perhaps not - we do not know that - we can also find and catch the team of this coil. Do we want it or not? Do we agree on that or not? Do we want to find the brain of the two and a half tons of heroin with which thousands of Greek birds would die, ladies and gentlemen, or not? [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over, Mr Nikolaos BOUTSIS]] Do we want to find the brain of the two and a half tons of heroin, ladies and gentlemen, or not, with which thousands of Greek birds would die? Do we want to find the brain? Because, as our rapporteur has said, he will do it again, whoever he is, and who can obtain some information from some serious information. Obviously we all want and the main thing is that the Greek people want it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u97	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u98	Well, don't blame anyone who wants information on justice. Because that's what the Minister of National Defence did, he got the information and called for justice. He didn't go to take a statement himself.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u99	Don't put any ideas on him!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u100	"He intervenes," he says, in justice. You're obviously doing this, Mr. Comrade. What was he supposed to do, prevent him? You want articles? So listen to these: in Law No.3875/2010, in which the United Nations Convention against International Organised Crime was ratified, Article 24 provides for the protection of witnesses, Article 9 of Law No.2928/2001 provides for the 'protection of witnesses against criminal organisations', the most favourable measures under Article 27 of the Code of Drugs. We don't know? We all know that. Also, Article 45B of the Code of Criminal Procedure states ‘abstention from criminal prosecution of witnesses in cases of public interest’. This all demonstrates what our rapporteur, Mr Paradoxopoulos, has said, that when we have information in the wider public interest, we must all act on and channel the information to justice and protect these witnesses so that we can find these brains of organised criminal groups. Take note, ladies and gentlemen, what has been said over the years by those who did not want to investigate the scandals: 'I am unresponsible' - and it has now been heard by colleagues - 'it was not competent', it says,'registered', 'did it make a name complaint', 'but does it not violate personal data'? And how many other terrains that bury scandals upon scandals. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Today, the New Democracy does not really want to explore a huge scandal, namely to find the brains of the two tons of heroin coil, and it wants us to do an examination against those who are looking for the two tons of heroin brain! So we can swallow the two tons of heroin and refine the deaf. This is the deaf man, the New Democracy's proposal, who spoke, what sms, how long the speech lasted, who entered, what time he entered, etc. So to deal with important issues and forget the two and a half tons of heroin. The New Democracy is trying to disorientate from the real scandals, but it won't pass. He tries to correct the examinations he is with his back wall, loans, health, with no fantasies, such as today and as her, really ridiculous legally, a proposal for an examination of what Mr Varoufakis had in mind. That's not even what Orwell had thought of, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u101	Please shorten up, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u102	I shall conclude, Mr President. In conclusion, I would like to say that the New Democracy proposal to set up a committee of inquiry should be rejected by this House because, firstly, it is disorientative, secondly, it is trying to offset the real scandals that we are investigating with fantasies of its own and, thirdly, it is trying to expel those who are helping to investigate a huge criminal act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u103	Thank you. The President of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Dimitrios Koutsoubas has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u104	Ladies and gentlemen, this is the fourth time in just a few months when Parliament is discussing a proposal for a committee of inquiry. Following examinations of the loans of parties and banks, the Papantoniou case, health scandals, we are currently discussing a committee of inquiry on the Kammenos case, this time with a proposal from the New Democracy. He's not gonna stop this little cat. Recently, in the summer, we had the confrontation for Varoufakis, which will obviously be rekindled in October by the Greek version of his book. Overall, there is a multiplier in proposals for committees of inquiry between the Government and the Civilian Opposition. Soon we'll start counting and scoreing. Of course, we have seen this project before. Whenever the bourgeois government parties converge in their political line, in their strategy, as SYRIZA and New Democracy today, as the PASOK and New Democracy have before, the debate went to the management of the scandals. The same happens now. Since the central strategic issues coincide, which has become even more evident with your recent appearances at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition, then fatal confrontation goes there. The most to fight about who will serve better business interests, the anti-popular capitalist recovery, to give credentials to big capital, to compete for who can best carry out the reforms that this requires in his own interests. We, as you know, want to investigate all the cases and try as much as we can and with the powers that we have to highlight the real, the deepest causes of the scandals, corruption, interlocutory, which, in our view, is also within DNA itself, in the way this rotten exploitation system works. We are doing everything we can to inform the Greek people. But we don't have any illusions. We know that, within these committees, the real causes, the real reasons, are hidden, silenced, collapsed, and finally the various committees of inquiry which are set up, all they do is to get rid of at most - even though - of the incrimination of certain specific, individual individuals and of course exploited for a number of disorientation. To distract the debate from real problems experienced by the Greek people. More importantly, all the problems that we have been experiencing in recent years, with the crisis, with the memoranda, with the subtle anti-grassroots measures, are attributed to the mismanagement of only some people, some governments and not to policies which have consciously served and served both the former and the current rulers for the benefit of the great capitalist profitability. So, recourse to scandalism, discussion about corruption and complexity is an easy solution for all of you. Take, for example, the problem created by the pollution of Saronics, whose responsibilities are also represented by the Minister for Commercial Shipping, Mr Kurublis. Undoubtedly, the responsibilities of the Ministry's political leadership and Mr Kurubli's personal responsibilities are enormous and cannot be concealed, dishonestly we would say, responsibilities in the port. But that's not all. These shipowners also have responsibility for their ships. There are also responsibilities in the movement of oil. They have responsibilities over time, including the governments of the New Democracy, PASOK, and the current SYRIZA - ANEL, who have made them responsible and made them responsible for the laws that they vote on ship control. Are not all these governments, who, while so many years of fading for Piraeus as an entry gate and an international hub, still have not ensured the elementary immediate decontamination infrastructure? It is therefore not only the inability of one or other person, minister or servant, but the class policy that serves your State and its political staff, together with one another, which leads to such phenomena. Ladies and gentlemen, in discussing the matter today, we must look at the great picture. The big picture is about a fierce war of business interests that is currently evolving about who will prevail in a number of sectors and sectors of the economy, who will be better placed, who will gain the greatest gains and benefits. The controversy which existed in the past and continues with regard to television licences and overall developments in the media and the provocative government amendment tabled a few months ago and which was also confronted there with the BSE crisis and now confirm this assessment. In this controversy, in this war of business interests it has been involved from the outset and the SYRIZA-ANEL coexistence. They have other parties involved, such as the New Democracy Civic Opposition. Of course, they have other powerful states. It is no accident, as the newspaper of the ruling party wrote, that this case deals with institutes expressing views of the US Government, which call on US security agencies to engage more actively, since, they say, this is not just a Greek matter. The Minister of National Defence recently pointed out in his statements the need to develop the Navy at the side of the US Navy from Crete to Suez to deal with - says - drug, fuel and weapons smuggling. Under the pretext of dealing with smuggling, the government is becoming more and more involved in warfare projects in a variety of tachographs. On this occasion, what will be the issue of modernization, apart from the maintenance of Araxos infrastructure, in order to reassign them for the transport of nuclear warheads there? Really, how do they go? What exactly do your American friends tell you that their staircases, often densely, are going for control there? Unless you don't even ask them anymore, or if they think they're not obligated to let you know. We have denounced it in the most official way, but so far, not all of you have made kich. In any case, experience shows that these cocks, like now for "NOOR 1" usually end with some call - give, with the lisverish that something is pushing to give one another and something to get the other. They often lead to new agreements between states, alliances, business groups, but always at the expense of the people. What is finally being done and what the trader concerned, Minister, Government, is to whom he belongs, is to be investigated, which will probably be the subject of a number of committees of inquiry, as they all show. The fact that a serious criminal case involving drug trafficking, such as this 'NOOR 1' case, is evolving and at the heart of political controversy confirms exactly our above considerations. From that point on, the attitude of the Minister of National Defence is certainly problematic. Because it is another question of a very serious case, which must be done anyway, and responsibility must be attached to all natural, moral and fellow ministers and collaborators, and it is another matter of involving a minister - and indeed the Minister of National Defence - of strange consensus and contacts, which only create shadows and harm the credibility of any judicial investigation. There is, for example, one question we have asked before: why has Mr Kammenos recently dealt so actively with 'NOOR 1' when this case has been known for two years? So, in our view, these are the big and unanswered questions that the government prefers not to speak and not of course the dagger dagger of the 'tada' lady who will not be used to melt the worms she told us the other day or the expensive jewelry and the visit to foreign casinos, which the press wrote to finally make this confrontation - chic, in our view - between the other parties. We'll say that Caesar's wife has to be honest. And the Minister of National Defence, with the cover of obviously of the Prime Minister, is doing practices that prove that this government is not only determined to investigate serious cases, to deal with scandals, corruption, which we again say is inherent in this system that serves, but is actively and actively involved in various business constituencies that are currently taking place and in all ways, taking the part of one against the other. We will also once again say that this rot world is all yours. Wars, smuggling, drugs are children and not disgusting the system you serve up to the bounces. It is the rot of the system that throws up its boot, which in all ways seeks maximum profit, literally pushing on bodies. We do not consider it accidental that the Minister of National Defence took the lead in the invitation of the NATO armada to the Aegean Sea or that he is developing the activity that we have mentioned, while the contradictions between international imperialist centres for controlling the transport road energy sources in the wider region are exacerbated. Ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of today's case and others, which emerged in the summer, the confrontation focused again on justice, a confrontation which is convenient to the parties of the memorandum, and on the one hand enables SYRIZA to hide its anti-popular memorial policy, even presenting itself as a victim of centers of the establishment that allegedly fights it, while on the other hand enables the New Democracy to hide its agreement with basic anti-grasssroots directions promoted by the current government and appear as an opponent of supposed practices in relation to justice, which, of course, she also followed as a government against keron in the past. SYRIZA is even trying to hide behind some real bad and reactionary decisions his own responsibilities for his policy. It is an opportunity to make one more point clear. In our opinion, it is a different thing that the attacks are often personal and obscene, carried out by some entrepreneurs, the media, but also political forces for self-interesting small and medium-sized economic interests, and through which they are trying to impose their own choices on justice, and of course all these interventions must be absolutely condemned and condemned. It is quite a different thing to comment on, to judge justice decisions on the basis of principles, to judge decisions taken from the point of view of defending the people's interests, that is to say, decisions which apply or interpret even worse the existing anti-grassroots legislative framework, such as the Court of Auditors' recent rulings on dismissal of contractors, the Court of Juveniles in Rethymnon to impose public works on students who have participated in a mobilisation or the Court of Appeal of Chalkidas for collective redundancies, etc. You said, for example, about the decision of the Pentecost Court of Athens that insists on this unfair imprisonment of Herianna without any serious evidence, rejecting its request to suspend its sentence. It is indeed a decision that is unacceptable, provocative to the public on the subject of law and dangerous to people's freedoms. But are you, masters of the government, who play it the protectors of popular freedoms, are you, perhaps, unresponsible? Do you really not have responsibilities when not only are you keeping the authoritarian, repressive legislative framework of previous governments wrapping people in a glue of paper, but also enriching it with the justification for adapting Greek legislation to reactionary euro-union guidelines? Are you unresponsible when strengthening authoritarianism, repression, when you are preparing to put your hands on trade union law and the right to strike ahead of the third rating of the quartet? Then it will be your fault again for the judges who will take out the strikes, you will only lay the blame on the judges, since you will have legislated on them. So instead of playing online and facebook rebels with constant postings that have reached the limits of ridiculous, change the legislation that is the basis for such unacceptable judicial decisions. But there you don't dare. Of course, we didn't expect anything different. Here the "AGEY" has reached a point in writing in favour of limiting the right to strike and advertising the theory of both extremes. But we're telling you enough about hypocrisy and enthusiasm. Your people have now taken over your people, and those who still justify you in the name of the existence of the right-wing, the right-wing, the New Democracy, the rest of the centre-left, the PASOK and, of course, the ones that still give rise to justified allergy for the previous policies followed by their governments in part of the people, real-time policies of extermination, that is, our people - it is not the time that they are finally going to turn your back and take their decisions boldly. All this controversy about its justice and independence is false. You are jointly voting for memorials, anti-grass laws, which justice is called upon to implement, and your hypocrisy is also seen by the fact that its leadership - with what this, of course, implies - is chosen by you, by the government in question. This practice was supported and followed by all the governments to date, including SYRIZA, who, as its opposition, criticised it. Ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of all the above and in combination, of course, we want to get as deep as possible to reveal the arbitraryness of state power, without having false hopes, i.e. deceiving that something will finally come about, apart from some leaks and random media titles, we will vote on the proposal for the committee of inquiry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr Kutsuba. Please have the floor for 20 minutes, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, Chief of Staff and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u106	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, the debate has begun at 11.20 p.m. Now it is 14.30', that is, three hours and ten minutes have passed and the Minister of National Defence, as far as I know, has entered Parliament's room for just a few minutes. I would point out that it is at least paradoxical that the Minister of National Defence should be indicted and that a committee of inquiry should be set up on his case and that he should not be in the Chamber throughout the sitting and attend all the speakers. I hope at least in the course of my speech that she will be present or even followed by the closed circuit. Ladies and gentlemen, with the proposal to set up a committee of inquiry, the New Democracy raises an obvious issue, both politically and morally. We are talking about a case where there is serious evidence of a breach of competence as well as of course of violation of the principle of separation of powers, serious evidence of abuse of power by manipulation of justice with a view to possibly serving dark policies and other pursuits. As a New Democracy, we are not rushing to condemn anyone in advance. We ask, however, that nothing be left without an investigation. We call for in-depth monitoring of institutionally unacceptable and dangerous practices. We are asking that democratic functions should not be abused any more for the sake of much-discussed and controversial intra-government balances. We are asking very simply for the provisions of the Constitution to be entered in the face of political purposes. The government's majority has been placed against the self-evident. He prefers the blackout from the investigation. It prefers the chair of power to protect the prestige of institutions and their smooth operation. He prefers to defend the political coup d'état between SYRIZA and ANEL, a coup d'état at a cost that the country pays dearly, and even with a horizon that goes beyond the mandate of the coup d'état. However, even a political coexistence has its limits, as Mr Kontonis has recently seen with the amendment that had to withdraw. He did so when he realized that the ANELs would vote against it, but that the other parties to the opposition would vote against it, not necessarily because they disagreed with the amendment, but to highlight the political euphoria of the dictatorial government. We knew that you are capable of much and that you consider it normal to interfere in the work of justice or attack justice when its decisions do not serve you. We knew that you have no difficulty targeting anyone who is disturbing you through your friendly press and demographic mechanisms and circuits. We know you're building not only make news, but also fake polls in Maximos' underground. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] On the other hand, Minister Vernardakis admitted it cynically, as well as that you are moving these polls through a system that feeds state money and public appointments. So we have come to the point that your ministers are blatantly overcoming justice and the Prime Minister himself sees the distinction of powers as an institutional obstacle. I would like to remind you that the former President of the Ice Bay gave a government position before well coming down from her seat! You haven't even kept the elementary pretexts. A few days ago you proceeded to new choices for the leadership of the Ice Bay, omission of worthy judges, who dedicate the judiciary. I have said again and feel the need to recall once again that justice is the last refuge of the weak citizen, the guardian of individual and social rights. It's the guarantee of the people. If confidence in justice is compromised, confidence in the very structures of our society is compromised. No country can go ahead without fundamental confidence in the institutions and everything that is guaranteed by a favoured society. We are close to justice by being away from it, that is, leaving the judges abducted to do their job, instead of interfering with their work, or of course doing that we do not understand, as you do, when the names of judges and prosecutors are posted on various websites that do dirty and dark toys. What is the feasibility, therefore, of serving all this and what do they look like? It is quite obvious and the vast majority of Greek citizens understand it. They show your anxiety to keep in power, controlling every aspect of public life. For three years you have been constantly lying, sinking the country not only in economic recession, but also in political decline. Unfortunately, you choose to do so today, and this is another reason why the verdict of the Greek people, when they come, will be very hard with you. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, with such attitudes, it makes sense for the government to consider it normal for the Minister of National Defence to speak on a regular basis with an isovita for drug trafficking and to be taken further into account and not to sweat anyone's ears when evidence shows that a manipulation of judicial investigation has been attempted to serve political purposes. We are asking for something simple: we want Mr Kammenos's intervention in depth to see whether this is simply an impetuous reaction from an impulsive minister, as some of you are now saying, or a conscious intervention in justice, or perhaps - the worst - for an unprecedented construction with serious and dark political implications. The only way to find out this is through a committee of inquiry. After all, as you know - I imagine - Mr Minister and as Mr Kammenos and the Prime Minister will know, the case-file has been forwarded by the relevant prosecutor to Parliament in order to decide, on the basis of the Constitution, on the next steps, as the public prosecutors considered that these charges cannot be checked. But they didn't put the case in the file, as they've done in other cases. It is a one-way road, therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, if we want to know the truth, to support our proposal and not let this shadow be misled over the Minister of your own government, to know exactly what they said twelve times - I repeat, twelve times! - during a week, Mr. Kammenos and Mr. Kammenos said in successive communications over a total of twenty-minutes the Greek Minister of National Defence with a convicted drug dealer and who is, finally, the role of this port official who spoke of a political project to rule ten years by SYRIZA and Tsipras. For whom did it work exactly? Who's behind them? All this must be considered, as all three questions must finally be answered, which I have asked Mr Tsipras since the first day and still have not been answered. I repeat, does Mr. Tsipras see to it that he responds today: Did Mr. Tsipras have any prior information from Mr. Kammenos about his contacts with the isovite? Has Mr Kammenos had his approval to do so? Did Mr. Tsipras have any knowledge of what was said to each other? Yes or no? These are just three questions I expect simple answers. Mr. Tsipras has to answer whether or not he knew. He owes it to his Members - to you - but he also owes it to the Greek people. If he knew, he is entirely responsible for a serious institutional diversion. If he hadn't known for so long that the unacceptable attitude of the Minister of Defence has been revealed, he should have already been expelled. Mr Kammenos had told us - with the well-known quality of the political speech that characterizes him - whether we have the worst, that we should make a request for a preliminary inquiry committee or a motion of censure. We're returning the challenge! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Indeed, I would very much like him to be here and listen. If he feels clear, let him ask himself for a committee of inquiry to illuminate every aspect of this dark affair. Especially now, Minister, where the case-file is in the House, why doesn't it? He should first want, seek to explore all this and not have any shadow left, but, of course, he is Mr Kammenos. He exulted and slandered from the safe, fortified behind his parliamentary immunity. But you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, why are you covering him? Why don't you want to answer all this? You don't want to know if your government partner has moved outside of his institutional role? Do you want to follow a shadow of cover for someone who at the bottom of the scripture doesn't belong to your party? You are forced, as you say among yourselves, to 'load him'. Make him "load" on the question of religiouss, when Mr. Kammenos took the lead in the dismissal of Mr. Phil. Tolerant of his poorly-famous figures and various graphics. Tolerant of his provocative way of life. But swallowing suspicions of being involved in an attempt to manipulate justice and involved in a political process, in this, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, is a great deal. I am really curious whether Mr Tsipras will finally appear today to defend his government partner or hide again, as he remains hidden two weeks now and does not even dare to visit the Saronic regions affected by an unprecedented ecological disaster. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I've followed Mr. Tsipras several times to provide cover for Mr. Kammenos. Maybe it's happening again today. He always seemed scared and awkward. But what was he afraid of? He has no reason to be afraid. After all, Mr Kammenos himself has said that 'with Tsipras we will go to the end'. Therefore, from now on I shall not refer to a government of Tsipras - Kammenos, but to a government of Kammenos - Tsipras. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I also watched Mr. Tsipras to provide cover, by his silence and his absence, to the Minister of Shipping, Mr. Kourublis, while he calls upon the pan-Hellenic for the omissions and the inaccurate public lies he has told about the ecological tragedy in Saronicos. Why, then, is Mr. Kourublis so valuable and must be supported at all costs? Or is it, among other things, the involvement of Mr Kurublis in the Kammenos case that prevents the Prime Minister from making self-evident, putting him out of government? I will come back to this issue next. Before we get to this, however, and because all you know is to fly mud and leave implied - I imagine Mr. Kammenos will do the same today, when he comes to plenary at some point - I say to you to finish this: the investigation into the case of NOOR 1 must continue and reach the end. I would remind you that this circuit was dismantled in 2014, on our own days in the government. It is something you systematically forget to say. Where there are responsibilities, they should be attributed, as they are said, no matter how strong they are. In democratic countries, however, these decisions are made by justice. Tsipras doesn't take neither Mitsotakis nor Kammenos! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, your Government tells us that since a case is dealt with by justice, it cannot - it may not be - be dealt with by the House. You know too, Minister, that this is also false and misleading. The Constitution provides for the Committee of Inquiry as a means of parliamentary control and policy efficiency rather than of criminal responsibility. I would remind you that Greek justice was considering both the lending of parties and the lending of the media. The Greek justice examined and examined the cases of Henry Dunan and CEDEFOP. Giannis Papantoniou was controlled and as far as I know, he is still controlled by Greek justice. In all these cases, however, justice had been dealt with. At the same time, committees of inquiry and pre-reviews were set up and welcomed. So your arguments show how exposed you are and how vulnerable you feel. You are also politically dishonest, because while we have voted for all the proposals for a committee of inquiry, you have not voted for any of our proposals, and that says it all. Exploiting all the issues is the task of the truth that I have and which we all have to face with the Greek people, and that has absolutely nothing to do with any kind of reunification, which I am not going to allow anyone to adopt. So your arguments are pretexts in sin and you are operating - I repeat - two metres and two weights. We voted in favour of all your proposals and those concerning periods of governance in the New Democracy, because we are not afraid of anything. We want to shed light everywhere. We have nothing to hide and if any of our coroners are involved in any epilepsy, let them suffer the consequences. Why don't you do the same? Do you think there's no issue? Are you serious about that? Talks, which saw the light of publicity, chill out every democratic thinking citizen. The port Investigative Officer directly says that his aim is for Mitsotakis to be hurt and for SYRIZA to be governed ten years and the relevant Minister of Shipping has not even - look out - to order his disciplinary control. It is, of course, an evil coincidence for Mr Kurubli himself who remains stuck in his chair and has blackened the sea and the coasts of Attica! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So I ask you directly: should this case not be investigated so that there is no sign of suspicion that anyone who planned such misery? Can we let the slightest suspicion be objected to? I tell you quite frankly: If anyone were to say that Mitsotakis had organized all of this to rule for ten years, I would be the first to ask for an in-depth investigation into this case, so that no shadow would remain hanging on me! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I would first turn against what he would say to protect not only my honour, but also the honour of the entire political world, in order not to give the impression that politics at our place is involved in cases of deep underworld. You, Mr Tsipras and Mr Cammene - I imagine you hear what I'm saying somewhere - why don't you do the same? Why don't you ask that abundant light be poured into this misery that has been heard? You, after all, ladies and gentlemen of the government majority, why are you not asking for it? Where was the supposed moral advantage of the Left lost along the way? Of course, 'the world has it'. If you vote in favour of the proposal for a committee of inquiry, perhaps the government's cohesion might be tested, if necessary, for the government to fall, for the elections to be lost and for more than half of you to go home! You've become hostages to each other. You're so close to pulling each other on the bottom. What I can assure you is that in this fateful hug we will not offer you lifesaving. Double majorities, where you will be safe for the progressives, but the ultrapatriots, to forget about them! [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from the New Democracy Ward]] From now on, what you are bringing to the vote should have the approval and support of the entire government majority. If she doesn't, we won't get into the essence of the debate. After you chose Kammenos, you'll go all the way with Kammenos. Ladies and gentlemen, I close with this point: the country - we have said so many times, but unfortunately we are constantly confirmed - is in an unprecedented, dangerous institutional catastrophe. Greece has gone a lot to become a solid, advanced European democracy. It's all our duty not to go back to the dark past. It is all our duty to protect the legitimacy and democratic institutions and to show our commitment to the fact that Greece will continue to be a favoured country where the rule of law and the separation of powers will prevail. We must show that there is strong Parliament and independent justice and that there are no constitutional discounts. The Kammenos case cannot and must no longer poison public life. SYRIZA's colleagues have a unique opportunity to prove that they want to rectify the damage caused to the institutions in this case. I invite them to agree with our request and to show in practice that they want to investigate this case and reveal the truth. Show, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, that you are sensitive to legality, moral order. Show political dignity. Don't become accomplices to a dark boom. Do not expose yourself morally to the eyes of the citizens. You know, no matter how much one hides from the truth, this time she meets him. This meeting will not be pleasant. I would like to point out that when this happens, we will be here again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u107	Thank you. The Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has the floor, Mr Stavros Kontonis, for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been clear from the beginning of the sitting that the debate will revolve around other issues because I think that all those who tabled the proposal to set up a committee of inquiry have been aware that they are in a vacant state and indeed with the vulture of justice. Bad day, however, has the Chief of Officer Antipopulation chosen to talk about the naval accident, because a few hours ago the Mayor of the Greek - Argyroupoli - which I imagine is advisable to your party - spoke of considerable results in the decontamination process. In other words, a mayor who is not friendly to the government recognises the laborious efforts made to remove the consequences of this accident. However, the serious issue that arises, ladies and gentlemen, is this: if we were in this Chamber and had this debate before the Prosecutors' conclusion was published, I could understand and justify excesses, failures and misleading comments. In fact, I have heard from the Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn that I, too, have spoken with Ioannoussakis. Let's see what else we hear! What else will we hear from the false ones of the Golden Dawn? Let's see. However, the conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, is of paramount importance for this debate and for the request you have put forward for a committee of inquiry, because the conclusion puts in record the lawfulness of the isovite, against natural persons, and indeed against the prosecutor, Mrs Ghiva, accepting that there is no natural autonician for the offences for which this prisoner accuses them. There isn't! So you come here today and say that there is a matter that the House should consider about moral self-government. Do you understand what an absolute misunderstanding - not to say madness - we are? There are no natural perpetrators, but you're telling us to look into the subject of moral perpetrators. But there are no physicists! Don't you understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u109	The offence shall be determined by the Committee of Inquiry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u110	You're very welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u111	You're saying something else that's just as unreasonable. You're saying the case didn't go into the file about Mr. Kammenos and the port clerk. He didn't come in. But, well, you realize that the Attorney's Attorney...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u112	The offence shall be defined in the committee. The House defines it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u113	Mr. Athanasios, there are speakers of your resignation. Please don't interrupt again. There are speakers. It will evolve all day long. Whatever you want to do will be repacked. Please very much. Excuse me, Minister. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u114	For the Minister and Member, Mr Kammenos, he had the power to examine further or should he do what he did, on the basis of the Constitution, i.e. to refer the case to the House, through the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay and the Ministry of Justice, so that the House can decide whether or not to waive his immunity and so on? As regards the port official, did the prosecutor have any competence at the moment when this port official is in the jurisdiction of the seafarer's office to proceed to the further? What are we listening to? What are these strange legal things we hear in this Chamber? Finally line up with reality! And the reality tells the simple thing, that the phony of Yannusakis went to the file. Did you get it or didn't you get it yet?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u115	Minister, the natural faces...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u116	You go on. So you're going on and I'm telling you again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u117	The political faces...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u118	What do you want, Mr. Athanasius? You're an eminent law firm. Do not go down 'the bad ladder'. When there are no natural perpetrators, how can there be moral perpetrators? At last, can I know? So there was a moral automobile without a natural automobile? Are we out of your mind?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u119	Mr. Condonne. Please don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u120	The challenge of committing an offence. The other offense.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u121	You're out of place and time. I don't understand you at all. I have given it to you, I have explained it to you, because this work must be done by the House or by the Head of the Navy. Don't you understand the basics? He didn't have the power.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u122	You're very welcome. The President shall hold the debate. It cannot be done by the Chamber and by the Minister. Please, be quiet. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u123	However, the President-in-Office of the New Democracy also said something else about an interpretation of the Constitution and the setting up of the committees of inquiry. That's the question. That interpretation he presented to us today, when did he discover it? Did he find her in the counterpopulation headquarters? Because I remember from the government's benches that he did not embrace these interpretations. We therefore have a shift here and a 'Ubian transformation'. In order not to say the other thing, look, ladies and gentlemen, it is very easy to say from the position of Officer Opposition that you have voted in favour of all the proposals put forward by the government. You will not be judged by this, you will be judged by whether you voted in favour of the proposals put forward by SYRIZA as opposition, when you were a government and then had the possibility of setting up a committee of inquiry. Because today either you vote on them or you do not vote on them, the committees of inquiry proposed by the government will proceed and produce the work they must produce. So leave these hypocrites aside. You are asking, however, some questions about the setting-up of the committees of inquiry and the committee of inquiry. You tell us, for example, that this committee of inquiry - it is in paragraph 2 of your proposal - should investigate what was actually said. Look, if you don't understand what you're asking, I'm telling you that at best it's something completely unproven, whatever anyone wants to say. If we even consider these monsters, which we have heard from Giannousakis, for which there was a public prosecutor's judgement, what else do we want to hear from you, rather than laugh at each other? Another question: Was there other discussions and contacts beyond the twelve telephone conferences? These things have been answered. Has anyone said anything different? We do not understand these questions on the one hand and on the other. And it seems to us that you are insisting on these objections and these demands constantly. I'm telling you again: Justice has spoken. Eventually, do you consider justice in your mind or invoke it whenever you think your views are favoured or fondled where you think the government is in a friction with her? This is the government's real contribution: to respect the decisions of justice. And we invite you to do the same. So do not build palaces in the sand, for justice has made a final and irrevocable decision on this matter. Ladies and gentlemen, we are well aware of this matter. We know more than two tons of pure heroin, which means that the quantity would be multiplied. We know that this amount would spread death to new children, boys and girls. We know it wasn't just for here. And also, that we have seven dead in this case.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u124	Minister, I'll give you two more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u125	Yeah, yeah. From the first moment on, I told you, if Mr Kammenos had urged this prisoner, not to do the legal things, not to give evidence and to shine the truth, but something else, then you would have every reason to blame him. But this is exactly where the opposite happened. The Minister of National Defence urged the defendant to provide evidence, to uncover the truth and finally to see this part, which justice could not clarify: who was the head of this circuit. Anyway, that should be clarified. Is that why you blame him? Or is there an issue that I have heard, morally speaking, why does a Minister urge a isovirus to assist justice in her work? Is that the problem?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u126	There's that, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u127	If that's it, excuse me, if you say that's it...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u128	And this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u129	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u130	...a minister urged a defendant to assist justice, to shed light on a two-ton-ton-to-heroin drug case, and that's a problem, then I'm sorry about you saying so in Parliament's Chamber. I'm sorry on your behalf! [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] But I would very much like you to tell me if you were in the position of Kammenos, what would you say to this prisoner? Would you say, "I'm not talking to you, am I closing your phone?"
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u131	You do it repeatedly.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u132	How many times did you do it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u133	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u134	In fact, when this prisoner expresses fear for his life, he knows that seven others have died before him. That's all you put aside and you say the problem is the conversation. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you this: we have understood from the outset that here we are dealing with a comedy opera, as we say in the Istanbul. You understood it yourself. That's why we hear about Kammenos's journey to London, so we hear about the wreck in Salamis, so we hear a lot of things regardless of the case and we hear more about it. We're patient. However, what you need to understand is that you cannot and do not allow you to become transfer of business interests bands. I would remind you of this: the whole case started when the economic police checked the offices of Mr Marinakis. I don't know if it was routine check or something. I don't know. However, from that point on, we had a team on fire from the press controlled by Mr Marinakis and followed forty-eight hours a New Democracy announcement. What's that? Do you drag behind business interests or do you not drag? Because Mr. Javarras asked a question. He said the government should accept...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u135	Please finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u136	I shall conclude, Mr President. The government will have to accept the role of Officer Opposition. Of course we do. You should accept him, criticise and not drag behind business interests. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And because I want to finish with something...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u137	Please, hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u138	Yeah. I'm addressing you, Mr. Papatheodorou. You know I appreciate you and I always listen carefully to you. Today you made a mistake. You have tabled a text of the paper 'DOCUMENTO', by Mrs Kattini, in which information on some of the elements in Mrs Ghiva's memo. So the finding doesn't have it, and nobody can have it. The second is that what you said, Mrs Jiva allegedly confirmed Giannousakis' agony on her visit to the detention store, is included in the conclusion. I don't know if it's part of the finding, 'cause I haven't seen it. But Mr Papatheodorou certainly does not appear in the newspaper 'DOCUMENTO'. So when we come here and call for these types of documents, please be more careful.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u139	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u140	I know you are. I'm not addressing personal reproach. Why are you asking for the floor on personal grounds?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u141	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u142	But please. As I also said before that, you said that we have re-entered the manager of the detention store. So I'm telling you that Mrs. Old was and remains in her place. I would therefore ask you to critically hear it, but to listen to it on the basis of concrete evidence, so that we can discuss it. Otherwise, that is not the case. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u143	Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u144	What do you want, Mr. Papatheodorou? For a minor issue five times since the morning you have exchanged conversations. Make a statement, do something, tell us until President Theodorakis comes to Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u145	In fact, because the President is coming to Stepma, I would say: I have not only said of anxiety. I said that it is confirmed that it has arrived late. Not that he was asking. Look at the Minutes. Let's not have this conversation again. I said he confirms he arrived late. Someone hadn't sent her to the right prison. Look at that little thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u146	Mr President, just a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u147	You're very welcome. What?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u148	I was late to speak - I had planned to speak around one - precisely because I asked for the Minutes of the speech and I have them here. That's not what you're saying. You say what I read to you before.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u149	Good. To correct the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u150	So please do not go on with a mistake that has been made by you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u151	Good. There is a correction of the Minutes in the last part you have explained the matter. Mr. Theodorakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Mr President, and passing through. I thought, to be honest, I'd heard everything. But Mr. Kontonis had the right suggestion. What did Mr. Kontonis suggest? Be careful, he remains a Minister of Justice of the Government. He said to record the Ministers' talks with the isovites and then decide whether what the Minister says is right or not.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u153	Did I say tape?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u154	Allow me, Mr Contonis, that is what you said. You said to hear what is being said to the isovites first. How can we hear? Will each of us have a ear in prison? You said 'to listen to what the ministers say and then judge their actions'. But I want to start from another point. I want to read you 20 words, said by a young politician who was looking for the beginning of his career support in the extreme right space. I read: "There can be no wasteful Greek, marginalized patriots, citizens second class. Let us put an end to this political racism." It is an excerpt from Mr. Kammenos's suggestion at the New Democracy Conference in 1994. The waste Greeks are the pigeons and, in order to avoid any doubt about what Mr Kammenos proposed, when he was asked by journalists "what you mean", he replied in 1994: "Yes, I ask for the release of the origins of the coup". Of course it wasn't an individual energy. Mr. Kammens has collaborated - and he is well-known - with the Georgal, the Goebbels of the junta. He built his political career, forged by various conspiracy theories, including, perhaps, the top one, behind November 17 is the PASOK of Andreas Papandreou. The years went out and arrived in 2015, whenever Mr. Kammenos became a pillar of SYRIZA - ANEL governance, a governance that could have been a symbol of the photograph with Mr. Tsipras, the arms of Mr. Tsipras on the Athens platforms. But let us go to the case that is the occasion of today's debate. What do we got? We have a Minister of Defense - we do not care about the content - which 12 times, not one, speaks with an isobite. Twelve times 20 minutes. So we have a minister who speaks twelve times with a isobite and urges him to testify against a particular person. Primary editors, legal professors, without entering into the essence of the case, are emphatic, gentlemen of the government. The executive representatives cannot speak with accused persons, much less with life sentenced.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u155	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u156	They're specific. You don't know them? You're making bad friends. Let me tell you some people you can learn. It is therefore written by the constitutionalist, Mr Stavros Tsakakis, that the distinction of powers is forbidden - see - to a minister any contact with someone who is in the hands of justice. Obviously, we demand explanations from Mr Kammenos, but also from Mr Kontonis, who defends this practice of the Minister, was aware of this behaviour and as the Minister of Justice, who should know the laws and the Constitution, proud of this behaviour by Mr Kammenos. Of course, we know that the examinations rarely bring results, to be honest, and the citizens are right to be a little suspicious of these examinations. But this is one of the cases where things are clear, it's relatively easy and the House must take a stand and not cover up para-state behaviors. It is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that Mr. Kammenos wanted to intervene in the case, he wanted to guide the investigation. But why? That's a good question. Maybe because the government wants to play power games with enemies and friends. Entrepreneurs are good when they show up and claim a television licence, bad businessmen when they do not support the government. And Mr. Kammenos, as a heavy gun, undertakes to shorten and punish businessmen who do not cooperate. Besides, in the years of his service he has proved himself to be able to say anything, to do anything and no one can control him. There are funny statements: 'ENPIA' - Mr Kammenos's statement - 'is a tax that Greeks should not pay and I have never paid HISPIA personally and I do not intend to pay him'. There are racist statements, such as when he paralleled the marriage of people of the same sex with brutality. There are dangerous statements, such as when he said he would never vote to give citizenship to the children of migrants born in our country. And he did, of course. There are statements that induce citizens' intelligence, such as when they voted in the morning to increase VAT on the islands and then went to Syros and stated: "The increase in VAT is a criminal act, it is an act of unconstitutional". What to learn from the life and the state of Mr. Kammenos! He went after - and it's probably not of minor importance - with millions of journalists, because he didn't like what they wrote. Two million asked Andreas Petrolakis to terrorize, of course, not Andreas - he would not have done it anyway - but to terrorize any other journalists thinking of criticising him. Unfortunately, for Mr Kammenos in Athens there are still judges, there are still judges, and in July Mr Kammenos's complaint was rejected. [[At this point, the President-in-Office takes over the Vice-President of Parliament, Ms. MARios GEORGIADIS.]] The political importance, however, is that Mr Kammenos's statements and actions have the support of your Government. Even your party, SYRIZA, and party media not only do not criticise, but always positively promote all of Mr Kammenos's actions. Top example: Mr. Kammenos's visit with Members of the Golden Dawn and SYRIZA to Kastelorizo and Ro. Nor has there been a slight criticism here. Incidentally, of course, I should like to tell Mr Kammenos that he has entered the Chamber that the variation suits he is used to wear do not make the patriot. The patriot is seen from elsewhere. Mr Kammenos represents the middle ages of politics. He is fearful with the refugees, with the refugee children, with homosexuals, with the people of other religions, with the other peoples. And in July, you know, to celebrate the victory of Tsipras in debt, which only he saw, he posted on the twitter sticker. And once the universe got up, it started - and I want to put another aspect here of personality - his minor son, that he made the post. Such courage! And shopping in London is the minor daughter. But I want to make a stand here, because I think it is a political matter. Does a politician have the right to play in a casino? It has the right of a Minister, a protector of the poor - to know what and what we're talking about - to play roulette? I looked into it. Legal opinions differ. I conclude from this: everyone has the right to spend their money where he wants on luxurious trips, on long journeys. For politicians, however, there are two conditions: it is not state money - I imagine we all agree - and it is not money from unknown wallets. So I ask Mr Kammenos and I believe he will be able to answer me in particular: in the last instance, all his bank accounts have EUR 8 500. Does it justify all that we see, the holidays in the Alps, the dolls, the shopping at the most expensive stores in London, the casino games? Who are the donors of this life? And above all, there is another matter. How does one manage to cry in the windows in the morning for poor pensioners and for people who lose their homes and at night all in the red? How courageous now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u157	And in black!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u158	We are therefore waiting for Mr Kammenos's explanation, although we know his answer from now. They will be insulting, insulting, insulting, because they have never been capable of a serious political confrontation. For the river and for me, you know, he's only had lies and slanders since the first day we showed up. It came to the point - and, beware, it is a little funny - that one day to vote in Parliament for the Papantoniou discharge - remember it - and the next to blame us - which we had brought and revealed the Papantoniou's accounts in the House and we did not vote for the Papantoniou's discharge - for Mr Papantoniou's partner. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, I don't think you'll probably tear the pictures of Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Kammenos together, like the couples who at some point separate and sing their pictures. One will cover the other. And Mr Tsipras, unfortunately, will continue to say that it is natural for a Minister of Defence not to deal with defence in this country, at this time, but to be overnight talking to an isovite, trying to influence the development of a serious case. It is clear, however, that Mr. Tsipras felt insecurity in the summer after so many gaffes of Mr. Kammenos and has imposed a silence on him for some time. But silence, ladies and gentlemen, does not erase history. And the story won't write the false revolutionary lines on the twitter of some ministers or so-called antisystemic crowns in the windows. He will write - and that will know your grandchildren - that you have ruled, for as long as you govern, hug me with the furious, sprayed extreme right. You gave ground to maintenance. And I should like to give you one last example, one last example: what is the national line, ladies and gentlemen, about the scaffolding? Who is she? To make it easier, because it is outside the agenda, it is a complex name, with a geographical definition of the term "Macedonia". That's what SYRIZA used to say. That's what I know. That's what books say. Mr. Kammenos, however, gives interviews and characterizes as traitors who follow and have this line. And I asked Mr. Tsipras: 'Tell us, has the national line changed? Has the SYRIZA line changed? And she answered that she's not present. So it is shameful for all of you, who once supported the complex name, now to bend your head and dragged to it, as in all else, by Mr Kammenos. But these are, ladies and gentlemen, ties with the extreme right-wing nationalists. You look like them sometime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u159	Thank you to the President of the River Parliamentary Group for the exact time. As always, she was consistent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u160	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u161	Yes, Minister, we are listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u162	Mr President, I would again ask for the floor, because once again Mr Theodorakis repeated the same lies in the House, even though I have notified him in the Minutes of the House that what he refers to is absolutely false. First of all, I would remind you that Mr Theodorakis was the one who raised the Golden Dawn. He was the one with a glass of Golden Dawn in his hand interviewed Mr. Michalolikako and advertised him as a journalist and before he took over the presidency of the party, which has been left with four MPs, including himself. I would therefore like to say once again to the House - because it was heard by Mr Panagoulis, too, by the President, Mr Leventis - that what he said about Georgia is a lie, as well as what I said on 17 November in the book that I wrote, in relation to Andreas Papandreou, is false. With EUR 300,000, Doll had been convicted of the final appeal by the court for this case. A new sentence for Georgalas and November 17 in relation to Papandreou or with left-wing officials in 2014 - a judgment of the Court of First Instance - with 10,000 euros compensation. Third sentence. Because Mr Theodorakis - if you remember - because in the case he said absolutely nothing, because he has nothing to say at all...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u163	You weren't in there.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u164	... he goes to the Step and reproduces gossip newspapers he reads. Well the first thing I ask is for apologies right now from the House and for final decisions in relation to what is said about Georgia and about 17 November for Papandreou. Secondly, as far as my personal life is concerned, you will remember that Mr Theodorakis and others from here were moving hand in hand with Mr Papachristos' famous headlines for FOUR SEASON, accusing me of losing public money and so on. A decision notified yesterday to Mr Papachristos condemns him for a slandering defamation of EUR 68,223,49 because it turned out that this was a constructed lie, as manufactured lies were those that they made last week, that I was staying in an expensive hotel charging the public. I charged my credit card. It's the same as that in that decision. And Mr. Theodorakis, look at my tax statements and my "subjects" and you will see that the money that I entered the House has been reduced, but at least I have the option to pay sometimes when I go to travel abroad, which I have the opportunity to accompany from my wife, from my pocket my hotel and my expenses. As far as casinos are concerned, you will see in the next developments that we will have in the courts that you refer to a club in which with Mr Yakoumatos - where is Mr Yakoumatos - we first came in 1994 with some Members of the New Democracy, who have a room to watch, which has a restaurant, which has a bar and you spend a few hours. Now if it was found within the framework of the surveillance to take a picture of me in front of the roulette, I have to tell you that I am not playing the Greek people's money, Mr. Theodorakis. I'm not playing the Greek people's money. Once again, your informants will pay. Let's get the Paddle he's hiding. Yesterday the judiciary curator went to the "MYPE FREEDOM" and the first answer was that he was not "working here" and then "Let us serve the lawsuit." You should therefore learn that you must respect judicial decisions and such mudology as you do not use it. If you have political arguments, you go up and very happy to stand up. You're the right-wing promoter. There's never been any evidence that you're saying as true evidence. They're perfected by decisions. And anyway, in this Chamber you must respect the final judgments of justice. I'm putting it down for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u165	Come on, Mr. Theodorakis. You have the floor for a minute, too, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u166	I'll be very brief. I'm not going to repeat what's known. I'll only be in one. Firstly, I will submit to the Minutes Mr Kammenos's statements at a New Democracy conference on the release of the pigs, as well as his interviews at those days, his full-page interviews, on newspapers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u167	There were no interviews in New Democracy in 1994, Mr Theodorakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u168	Watch out. I will only answer one issue, because you must have too much courage to go to Kastelorizo and to Russia embrace the golden ones and say that others are making a policy that is close to them. These days are hard, Mr. Cammene. We have the anniversary of the Bridge murder and you need to know that "The Protagonists" the show you say was the show that a few days after the Bridge's murder revealed this crime and the team that did it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u169	Hug with Michaloliaco.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u170	Listen to me for a second. I heard you too. Most witnesses who today reveal the crime of the Golden Dawn criminal group in relation to the Bridge were the witnesses who spoke to the "Protestants". We are proud of this work that we have done, we are proud of the journalistic excellence of this work and above all because much earlier, even from the House, we have awakened ourselves to a big case that is the action of the Golden Dawn criminal groups in Athens.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u171	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u172	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u173	Mr. Contony, nothing has been mentioned to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u174	He referred to bad company. I won't...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u175	This is not a personal matter at the moment. Please don't start talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u176	I override what you said, Mr. Theodorakis, that I don't do good company etc. I'm making the company I'm doing. However, I would like to refer to something you said because it is important in relation to Mr Tsakraki's opinion. First of all, I want you to know that I have great respect for the face of Stavros Tsakakis, the university and the fighter during the anti-dictary struggle. But in this particular matter Mr Tsakakis is wrong, which is why he is the only one who scientifically expresses such an opinion. No other scientist has said anything like that. For intervention, Mr Theodorakis, in justice, is not when a minister or member of the executive is urging a prisoner to help justice. Intervention in justice is when a member of the executive intervenes in a judicial officer to shape his judiciary. That's intervention. To distinguish between interventions and not baptize fish. I would ask you very much, new scientific opinions, even of high-profile scientists, who, however, do not have the consent of the scientific community not to be put forward in Parliament's Chamber as inspiring, at least.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u177	I would like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u178	Mr. Theodorakis, we're starting the debate and I don't think he's allowing it...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u179	There's a very specific report. Do you want to tell us, Mr. Kontonis, that you express the scientific legal community, that you express the constitutionalists and not Stavros Tsakrakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u180	But, Mr. Theodorakis, is that what I said? Of course not. There can't be any serious conversation like this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u181	So I say to you that the professors of law and the constitutionalists who have been asked on this issue - and it is not just Stavros Tsakakis - say that the people of executive power cannot - and it makes sense - that the ministers cannot intervene in court cases and talk to accused persons, much less to isovites.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u182	It's clear. Mr Vassilis Leventis has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u183	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the issue we have been asked to discuss today is the possible setting up of a committee of inquiry on the case of Mr Kammenos, a case known as 'NOOR 1'. Because there's a hundred and fifty three, I don't see any meaning in the conversation. Isn't that right? Now why did the New Democracy Members propose, let us explain that. I followed Mr. Mitsotakis' speech, which is constantly calling for the resignation of Mr. Kourublis, to seek constant consideration of Kammenos. But I remember the days of the New Democracy, and I do not remember Mr Polydora resigning when thirty people were burned in Elia. Sensitivity I don't think there was. Therefore, they sought sensitivity while they themselves showed anesthesia. There's another problem. Some of the port officers put them with me because I asked for a "screw". Did I have anything personal to do with them? I believe that within every ministry, whether it's police, it's port, or it's customs, there's a group of people who are corrupt. Replacement of a minister don't think he's curing the matter. If you believe that, you're hungry. If, then, we want to clean Greece up and work on the public machine, we need to establish a coordinating body that goes to the earthquakes, to the floods, to the fires, to the extensive pollutions, to take the files with what the people in charge have done over the last decade, and there we will find no "bads" there, we will find "fishbirds". The New Democracy didn't have a Minister for Maritime Affairs? Didn't this Mr. Kudouris have his own ships on your minister? Wasn't he on leave? Were the ships good at the time, did they have good sheet? It's just that the accident took place on the SYRIZA. It could have been well done on your day. If you want to heal Greece, clean it up, we must stop this way of governance: that is, a minister, parties, existing, corrupt hierarchy and wait for the accident. And when the accident comes, we start to justify it. This is the task of the political authority, to justify unjustified. What did I say in the fires? If we had bought six planes, we would have intervened much faster, and now we will need the cost of forty planes to heal the wounds of the affected. This is Greece. Greece is "my star knowledge of having you first". If Mr Mitsotakis wants to become a Prime Minister, thinking that by changing Ministries he also changes the state, knowing that the state is deep, it is party, it is corrupt. It is that state for which the New Democracy states that no one will be fired. It's the state that Tsipras says to bring German workers to the public. They're those contractors who want simulation. That's why Tsipras cares to raise the state. The same jobs if he was in the private sector, I would congratulate him. But only in the state, he thinks they're employees, all the others aren't. Port officers, blogspot "Limit News" devour me. I honor them all. I just want an interparliamentary committee to check the files for the last ten years. That's all I want. If, however, I can see party administrations, if I find them protected, and so on, they must be dismantled. It's over and over! If the parties are protected this time, Greece is going! I am telling you the example of Mr Polydora. Why didn't Polydora give up on the fires, but he was talking about winds? And now he's with SYRIZA the Polydoras. You know that?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u184	Where is he, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u185	He went to the ER to get Tsipras to put him in.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u186	He never went.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u187	The New Democracy has reacted. He'd have gotten in. I want to say two things, to make it clear to the porters. I honor everyone, but, be it ports, they are either environmental services or earthquake services, they must be controlled. You have done so many years of party administrations, inactive, obese and ineffective. I guess most of them get caught, so they can behave and circulate rots. How else is port officers explaining how to issue certificates of airworthiness in rots? How else does it explain? On all governments, gentlemen! We're coming to the polls. Last week there was a survey by the newspaper "PROTO THEMA". We read from the outside: 'The Union of Centres 2.7%'. We read through what the poller writes. It reads: 'Centre Association: 3.2% to 4.3%'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u188	There's been a reduction.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u189	There's been a reduction. Why doesn't he bring up here? Because he wants to write that he's outside the Centro Association. [[Laughers in the Chamber]] Are you laughing? My colleague's laughing. You're laughing about democracy issues. All right, the people will punish you. Already in the polls, you start taking the ramp down. The newspaper 'TAS' does the same. The newspaper 'TA NEWs' does not write a word about the Centro Association in front of it, only Mrs. Gennimata is treated too much, obviously because you want a crutch. On the day of the election, you want a supplement. They write on page 21 'THE NEWS': 'The Union of Centres with an appreciation of 3,4 voting if we had elections would give the battle of entry into Parliament and of their success would also determine the possibility of self-reliance of the New Democracy'. I put this in the Minutes, because the New Democracy now wants what? He wants, if possible, me to die, to be self-powered. I would also like to present to you what I said about the ports. [[Mr Vassilis Leventis, President of the Union of Centres Mr Vassilis Leventis presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I respect the porters. I don't respect those of them who are corrupt. I will protect as Vassilis Leventis and our party, the Central Association, their honest employees. However, I do not want the dishonest to hide in the crowd of honors. I can't stand that. Mr. Tsipras says that in the middle of 2018 the country comes out on the markets. Let's get Mr. Tsipras' words so far we can weigh them. Two months ago he said he'd get a debt cut and a QE. What's taken from both of them, not to say, I respect the Chamber. Then he said after the German elections he'd get a cut for the debt. The German elections have now come out, gentlemen of the government, a little unreadable and, rather than taking debt facilities, I don't know what to say. Some want the country out of the euro, you know that. I want to say to the government something - and to whatever government, because I do not know how long we will have this government - if Greece does not make all the reforms close the mouths of those who want in Germany to throw us out of the euro, if we do not do all the reforms, Greece is at risk at the moment, because they are going up to 99% of people who do not love Greece very much and who are not waiting for it. That's what I have to say. Let's take care of that. I would like to say something else. If a government, with its mistakes, takes the country out of the euro, it will be a national crime, it will be something for which the next generations will not forgive us, that is, if the country of rulers fails to do so. It would be better if the government were not prepared to do all the reforms. I asked the Thessaloniki International Exhibition, because I proposed a government of technocrats: 'How are you sure, Mr Leventis, that a government of technocrats with two hundred forty seats', as I said, 'will achieve better negotiation'. What did I answer? "It is not that the negotiators will be able, but that this government will do the reforms and, therefore, that is what foreigners are asking." Foreigners see a government which does not make reforms and mockers, sucks about the same things and fears that changes are going through parliament and society there is no courage to implement them. That's why foreigners are against us. So from the German elections, don't hope nothing. The country must do its duty. Hope for ourselves in the changes that we are going to make. If we do it properly, whoever rules in Germany can't flout to Greece at all. However, if we do not do our duty, and hope that a friend will find himself in Germany who will look the other way, be deceiving, perfecting and away. I want to say something about the Central Left, because you saw that some people are talking about the Central Left and ask me 'Why didn't you, Mr. Leventis, enter the Central Left?' Gentlemen, I, before coming to this Chamber, have been out of Parliament for forty years. I was out of Parliament fighting against the New Democracy-PASOK system. The PASOK isn't - if I'm not mistaken - the centre-left backbone? Isn't that what they were appointing, who owes loans? Isn't that them? After having played forty years against them and created a nucleus that will now rise, they think the Centro Association will stay at 4% or 4.5%. I'm not gonna do a favor for anyone. I'm the one who's going to choose to face me. So choose someone.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u190	That's why they're late.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u191	That's why they're late. Because they don't know who to choose. After a forty-year-old struggle, fighting against the status quo PASOK and New Democracy, with appointments, with all that they have done, do you think that, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to join in? I explained it to Mrs. Gennimata and her husband. I'm clean. From the outset, I told her it couldn't be done, perfect. Now I want to talk about Mr. Kammenos. Mr. Contony, you're in the chair from what I see. I believe that Mr Kammenos should come himself to vote in favour of the committee of inquiry and give us the responsibility to vote on this House. I think so. When there is a stigma against someone - even poorly motivated, malignant from the Right, because they want to overthrow you - the solution is not to hide behind the number '153', because then the stigma is increasing, Mr Contonis. This is how politicians explain when we are men’s politicians, with morality. I would therefore ask Mr Kammenos to rid the Chamber of the trial of voting and to come and say that he accepts it. Otherwise, if Mr. Kammenos hides behind the number '153', then whenever the term of office of this House ends, he does not think he will have been rendered clean. That's my opinion. I thought the Left had a high ethos, and I believe that Mr Kammenos, too, has an ethos. That's what makes a man blaming him immorally, coming and accepting his examination. He's not hiding behind numbers of government majorities. It's my opinion. Now, with regard to some articles on the outside - to return a little to polls - for 2.7%, while the Centrons' Union is at 4.3%, etc., I want to make a statement. I've been out of the House forty years, and if I go back outside, I've learned to be out. Some others have become professionals. They're looking out for them. Don't think the people are stupid to think I was losing. I have done nothing so far in this Chamber. I've asked for some things and the government didn't do them. With the New Democracy, it's not possible I'll ever go. Do you know why? Because the first one, he says, he's gonna do, once Mitsotakis comes out, he's gonna do a booster. So I'm not going to take a phone from Mitsotakis on the night of the election, unless this changes and accepts the simple analogue and retreats. I think it is a vital step in this direction to make the country a democratic and legitimate country. As long as the Right stays on the reinforced bonuses and thefts of seats, it will be the unrepentant right of the past and will have a hard opponent on the face of Vasili Leventis. Mr. Mitsotakis knows. Let's go with those who sit in the room there to collide. With us, with the Centro Association, never. We fought to clean the country, and we will be unresponsive to the end! I'm not taking any more time. Thank you so much for listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u192	Thank you, Mr Leventis. Mr Andreas Loverdos has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u193	Ladies and gentlemen, before I come to the point, I should like to make a more general reference. I am addressing the Members and the Ministers of SYRIZA. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, you have changed Europe. In Germany yesterday, right wall. Congratulations! You're right about your predictions too. You're right about everything. On the channels, in the House, they call your MPs, ministers and others that you are changing Europe. Indeed, you changed it. Right up the wall! Now let's get to the point. After the signing of the third memorandum, and in particular because of the speeches made by two Ministers, the Minister of Finance and his Deputy, Mr. Juliarakis, I say several times in this Chamber that you were not elected as the best managers of the crisis, you were elected as the reversers. You took a rollover order in 2015, billions, because in September for parallel programs and equivalents you said. Now you're asking to play in the court of Papandreou, Papademos, Samaras. You talk about surpluses, you talk about small, but hopeful, development, you talk about a possible exit to the markets, etc., while you are not that, and you maintain the applause, sometimes, of your MPs, when you say something - not do - that brings Members' minds into seasons and so called before the saving year 2015. But you are not what you are claiming today. You are a Maduro Left, a partner of the open fan, the only one in Greece, Trump. That's who you are. The subject that we are discussing today is the translated example of those considerations which have just taken place. It's a classic, classic example. Ladies and gentlemen, extinguish from your mind for a few minutes Greece, Mr. Kammenos, the Ministry of National Defence and refer yourself to a Latin American country in Venezuela. But not in Venezuela, because there you have issues, you have problems, you may have black holes. Because I remember that you were cut off in the House on gender equality, but on the sexual harassment of the former Venezuelan Ambassador not to say a word, on the contrary, to be quiet, so that it doesn't matter. So not in Venezuela, but in another hypothetical country, let's say 'Escobaria'. Imagine that the Minister of National Defence in that country speaks twenty-one minute and more with his mobile phone with isovite and encourages him to testify against a third person with a overwhelming condemnation and promises him to take him out of his own topics. Imagine that. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] You are referred to in Article 239 of the Criminal Code of the "Escobaria" on abuse of authority, in which you read: "Assistant in whose duties the prosecution or interrogation of criminal acts is postponed: a) if he has been treated illegally by extortion to achieve any written or oral testimony of a defendant, witness or expert, he is punished... etc. and (b) if he, in his knowledge, expelled or punished an innocent man, or failed to prosecute a person responsible, etc., he is punished, and imprisoned." and so on. You have learned that in this country there are provisions of the Criminal Code on moral autocracy, on the challenge, on the violation of duty - a classic ministerial offense - and you have known them, and you have read them all, and you have heard that while the Minister says: "But I have an interest in drugs, I want to prosecute drugs. What are all the others you're telling me? Everything else I did to help this. And you do not want to prosecute drugs." Please note, you have learned that this case has been identified and filed and there have been arrests in the previous government, not in this respect. So if you heard all this and read it, you would say, with meanings, in words, with the head move, 'what to do now, in countries like this, unfortunately happens'. When it comes to Greece, which is a member of the Eurozone and the European Union, with a specific political, institutional culture, you would say that these are inconceivable. Here, then, in our country, where we carry the harsh reality, we have certain facts, which have been recorded. There is no need for any specific reference to these facts. We've been crushed as a country for months. We have something parallel. I have not heard that since this morning and my speech has mainly contributed. We are making a thought - which we will bring to Parliament in the next few days - why did Mr Kurublés not order, as is the right, in parallel with the criminals, to an ESA against an official of the Port Authority? We automatically think that - and this will be brought to Parliament in the next few days, I personally promise - a ship with smuggling Greek cigarettes has been for ten months. There has been a criminal court case, but we do not know anything else, and Mr Kurublis said that very quickly the truth will be revealed. It goes on to say that that's why you're not asking for his resignation of the black spot in the Saronic, because he's keeping you. All of this is one thing that composes your days and your face. This is your political face. That's your moral dimension. Because it keeps you well, that's why we lived on Friday what we lived here - it was a sad parliamentary moment - and you SYRIZA Members are not applauding. On the contrary, you applauded Mr Santorinio. So great is the power of this Prime Minister, who neglects everything to sit on the Prime Minister? Why, if it's not a mania of power, what else is it? Minister of Government speaks long and repeatedly with a convicted isovite for drug trafficking. Isn't this conversation appalling by itself? Should the discussion be raised at another level, parliamentary, position and refusals? If this file were to come, we should, unanimously, go to a committee of inquiry. Is this controversy an honour for the country for issues that go back to self-determination? Examination is an institutional one-way, and whoever says not to raise a very serious share of responsibility on his back. We are talking about it, because as a Democratic Participation and as a PASOK in previous years and as a majority in Parliament, and as a minority, where it was a matter of concern to us, we have tried to vote in favour of the proposals for a committee of inquiry and we have also taken the initiatives. This is the clear, clear attitude, not to say the Justice Minister of a Member State of the euro area and of the European Union today: 'And what? Each Minister has the right to make this move." Wrong, wrong big, unauthorized! They all know it's wrong. You're overlooking something that's seen by the naked eye. Why are you overlooking it? About everything I said before, not by accident. But when, ladies and gentlemen, politicians, especially the ruling politicians, think exclusively of their party interest, how the government will not fall, fatefully neglect the interests of the institutions, neglect the interests of the Greeks, neglect the interests of Greece, and that is the great problem of the country today and in this debate and beyond. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, it is well known to those who have elementary experience from politics that, when a government party resorts to the majority of the House, which is a majority that the people gave it at some point, in order to avoid its control, it uses an advantage which in democracies are absolutely transient. It is clear - and with this I close - that the country will be led to the polls, the end of Mr Tsipras will come out of these polls, and this end of this Prime Minister will be the beginning of the search for responsibilities, political and criminal, once the people make their choices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. Mr Saridis, Parliamentary spokesman for the Union of Centres. The President of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, Mr Gennimata, will be followed by the Group of the European Democratic Alliance. Mr. Saridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u195	Thank you very much, Mr President. After the rapporteurs and speakers of the parties, the issue, ladies and gentlemen, as to whether Mr Panos Kammenos has done the right or wrong. I shall begin with a statement and try to explain it. We've failed, too, of the Coupling, and you, of the Opposition. We all failed. The entire domestic political system has failed. As elected representatives of the Greeks we have disappointed everyone who believed in us. Ladies and gentlemen, the history of the future will refer to today and will refer to the shameful content of today's degrading sitting on democracy in the Greek Parliament. Every time they ask him "we, well, while all this happened, what did the Greeks do?" in order to answer this question in the future, it will be obliged to use today's meeting as an X-ray of the domestic political system to demonstrate its failure and to document why Greece has suffered what happened to it. Do you feel successful? Do we all think in here that we have honoured the oath we've given? So I shall mention what the Central Association and I regard as important, what has never been done today in this Chamber. Is it or is it not, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, an important issue nowadays, to reduce the term of office proposed by some of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group? Is it or isn't it important? Did any of you bother doing something, suggesting something, revolutioning, fighting, yelling? What would it mean for the country's defence to reduce its term of office? Is it or isn't it important? Do you know, ladies and gentlemen, that the main debate among those responsible for defending our national borders is whether they will have any meaning, any meaning or any effect in Greece today, the resignations of our military leadership, whether they would establish the ears of the three hundred out of the resignations of the Air Force, the Army, the Navy? What kind of message would the Heads send to the citizens in this case? Do the Chiefs have such a right? That's what concerns our executives, don't you know? Have you come up with what that means to their psychology, to their morals? Have you evaluated, in your numerous staff, the views of the Armed Forces officials? Do you know what they think about the crust? You know what they're thinking about the future of the Natonic alliance? Do you want to tell us that, after you have sat down and assessed responsibly all the issues relating to the country and which are the responsibility of the Ministry of National Defence, did you consider that it is worthy to exhaust your opposition to the resignation for telephone conversations with the Minister of National Defence, or for what might be the case with his wife? So, gentlemen of the New Democracy, has the Minister of National Defence failed anything else as Minister? Wouldn't it be worth accusing him of the fact that the Greek Army still wears helmets of World War II, say? Do you not feel that you should "swirl" him for what he promised about the future of ELVO and he has not yet done anything about them? Is it not your concern, gentlemen, to what state the army is currently in? Do you, too, not recognize as a greater threat to national defence that the ANELs together with SYRIZA managed to reach agreement and bring the unionist into the Greek army, with any side effects it has at the moment? It seems to you that what you have asked us to talk about here today and for which I refuse to speak is more important than the Centroon Union to speak, beyond the position of its President and its rapporteur, because we do not consider that to be important. We consider what I have just said to you to be important. Since I do not have time as a parliamentarian, since the President of the Central Association spoke first, I would like to close with one question. What prevents the Turks, gentlemen, from extinguishing Greece? Our allies in NATO? Didn't we get our answer in 1974? Who do you think will stop them, Mr. Trump, Mr. Putin, McCrone, Merkel? One thing is, one thing prevents the Turks from testing their fate, the strains of the Armed Forces. Today we should be talking here about the needs of the Armed Forces officials. This House should have given different priorities to the country. Unfortunately, we have all failed, and you and the rest of the counter-population, who are in no way able to prioritise the important issues of the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u196	The President of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Independence of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Fofi Gennimata has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u197	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, two years after the last national elections, the countdown for the SYRIZA - ANEL Government has begun. Decay is great, deep and spreading. This circle is closing. Of course, Mr. Tsipras, every time he talks in front of a selected audience, he finds everything fine. Problems disappear as magic, disappear. There is no exhaustive taxation, there is no unemployment at the place, there are no cut-off pensions or threats to auctions, and in the first place, and we are now told that they want growth. How? With the investors on the prick, according to the advisers of the Prime Minister himself. At the same time, of course, Mr Mitsotakis considers inequalities to be a natural phenomenon. That's what he told us in Thessaloniki. With a hard, conservative view, he invites us to live with them and promises growth, but how? Development that deepens inequalities, because it is growth for a few, and even without obligations for collective agreements, for decent conditions and decent wages and wages for workers. Two aspects, that is, of the same currency, of the maintenance. With these perceptions, we can't go forward. We must finally stop being a dactyloscopic country and a society that keeps losing opportunities. Greece can, Greeks can. There are forces, there are people at the moment who are fighting under very difficult conditions, they create, they send signals of optimism, but that is why we need to change course and we need to record a new popular mandate, the popular verdict, with another government, with another policy, with a plan, with a national line to get out of the crisis and the memoranda. With prestige and stature in Europe, to relaunch our relationship with Europe. To regain the country's credibility, which is the key. With priority for investment and development, but development for all. So we can create jobs. For a fair distribution of her benefit. To reduce inequality. To ensure social justice and cohesion. These are the priorities of the project "Greece". These are the priorities of the Democratic Partnership, which day after day is the real progressive pole, the protagonist. The Central Left will be leading political developments at the site in the next period. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are in front of the third assessment of the Tsipra - Kammenos Memorandum. What is said and written does not make us optimistic. Delays everywhere, rushphetological interventions, partitioning in public administration. I said - unscrupulously by the Ministers and, of course, undermining every investment that does not respond to micro-participatory purposes. Fears of new delays are justified, new prolongation of uncertainty. What are they gonna do? They'll raise the bill for the citizens again. It is justifiable that the leaks of the Ministers responsible for new measures and the references of European factors to the fact that there is a very tough comitology. Now, at the end of the summer, it's more obvious what the deal is. A heavy, deadly and humiliating agreement. It's the deal that this government has brought. Why? Because no partner trusts her. Greece in Europe needs a serious government. In particular now, the election results in Germany are making us all very concerned, since the SPD, which was the party that supported us all these years, states that it will remain in the opposition. This means that the country must be prepared very seriously to support national interests. We now see clearly where the weakness and inability of this government lead us. SYRIZA - ANEL, ANEL - SYRIZA, one and the same. Black spot is the government's brand name. They screwed up everywhere. Now they're also responsible for ecological disaster. Where do you swim, Mr. Tsipras, with your head outside? The Saronics is out of the question because you've made him a black sea. Your responsible Minister remains in his position and is on his way to the media, in order to retrospectively make covert propaganda, after he has already failed to intervene in due time. In any other European country this gentleman would either have resigned or already been released. Here, of course, as usual, it's nobody's fault. Political emotiveness does not exist in this government's vocabulary. By the same token, it is the same Minister who is blocking ships arrested for smuggling cigarettes. Why are you stalling? Is there anyone or something you're afraid of? We're waiting for answers. In any case, we expect effective action to be taken on detergents and on the immediate compensation for the affected. The sinking of the ship brought to the surface and the wing of the fuel smuggling. Despite the great words and promises, and in this area you get zero. Ladies and gentlemen, I now come to the proposal for a committee of inquiry on the achievements of your colleague Mr Kammenos. It seems that Mr Kammenos - with his blessings, of course, Mr Tsipras - after the role of General, the substitution of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, played the Minister of Justice or, worse still, the judge and the judge. It could be another "split" story, if it was not a raw Minister's intervention in a case open, pending before justice. The drugs case of NOOR 1 is very serious and Greeks do not need Mr Kammenos to tell them. It can also be investigated as a matter of priority by justice and all those who have been involved in any way, who are - and here we are absolute. But from justice, not from the Minister of National Defence, who neither himself can publicly explain what competence and why he was involved. Mr. Kammenos has admitted that he discussed the convicted isovite for quite a while. What was the contents of his conversation? Because it will really be criminal if he tried to convince prisoners to testify against third parties. To implement plans that suit himself, the government? Who knows what kind of interests. Mr. Tsipras and his ministers rushed to cover absolutely, I would say fighters, Mr. Kammenos. Make me bear you. There are no government without their co-pilot, their extreme right-wing partner. Mr. Kammenos said that nothing would separate them and that Mr. Tsipras at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition would agree with him. After the hugs at Klathmonos Square, hugdled will fall on the cliff and it will be very soon that this will happen. Are we directly asking Mr Tsipras: does the government have the declared state of affairs? Yes or no? Because they expect us to vote on human rights bills, while their extreme right-wing partner disagrees with them. Over the past period, ladies and gentlemen, we have supported the bills in the right direction, from citizenship to the cohabitation pact to the building of the mosque in Athens. We haven't shown any mistrust all this time. But we cannot tolerate mockery, on the one hand, from SYRIZA closing the eye on the progressive citizens and, on the other, the ANELs closing the eye on the overconservatives and the extreme right. Hey, where's this story going? [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] So, what's the sign of this government, Mr. Tsipras? Let us know, let us know. And I am sorry that a historical Left newspaper has become an official body of your co-government with the extreme right. And worse, he's trying to "yellow" to intervene in the lead election for the Central Left. Ladies and gentlemen, especially on the subject of the committee of inquiry, I would like to say that a number of questions have been raised in this case, which concern not only Mr Kammenos and his phone calls, but also Mr Tsipras himself and his Government. A lot has been said. But I directly ask and ask Mr Tsipras: did he know or not of Mr Kammenos's actions? Is he now aware of the content of Mr Kammenos's particular talks with the isovite? If so, he has to inform us himself today. If not, how does it cover him? Why does he not accept the setting-up of a committee of inquiry to investigate the case in depth? What are you afraid of? Question 2: What other government officials are involved in this case? The event of the post-night visit of the Prosecutor's Prosecutor's Office to the isovita's cell knew other Ministers? Who and why, if they knew? Did the prosecutor write a report after this visit? Did she ever explain to her superiors why she chose this time? Has she been asked for explanations on this strange activity by the prosecutor of the Ice Bay, or was it in the knowledge of the latter? Did she have a previous attempt to visit the isobite prisoner in another prison? We're asking and we're waiting for answers. Question 3: Was the Minister of Maritime Affairs aware of the illegal activity of an officer of the Port Corps, or has he also assigned his responsibilities to Mr Kammenos? Let the Minister responsible tell us what he has done and what the results of the investigation are, if he has done, about the activity of his subordinates. Question IV: In his statements the isovici has given names of drug dealers who are some outside prisons. The self-evident next act belongs to the investigating and public prosecutors and is only one: the extradition of international arrest warrants. I ask, then, and I expect an answer. Why have almost two years been delayed in issuing the relevant warrants against foreign big-time narcotics who have been named? In short, who keeps the baton on this case? A judiciary or a political agent? All of this must be examined and investigated in order to shed plenty of light on this dark case. Justice in any case is certain that it will do its job to investigate the 'NOOR 1' case and the condemnation of the occupants. Ladies and gentlemen, although we do not adopt certain points of the New Democracy proposal, the Democratic Reconciliation will vote in favour of setting up a committee of inquiry, because it is a case full of shadows and dark corners, which affect the prestige of the state before all. We are ideologically identifiable with the need for absolute transparency in public life, transparency for everyone and everywhere, but not just a card, depending on the party pursuits of everyone. To date, we have said yes to every proposal for investigation, even topics related to our own governance. You, gentlemen of the government, what are you doing? You said no to anything that concerns you until today. That's your attitude. Analogous, of course, the New Democracy is doing too. Together refuse to investigate the responsibilities of the New Democracy Government from 2004 to 2009. You cover everything together. Refugee, SYRIZA - ANEL, to explore how we reached the capital controls in the 2015 memorandum, the Tsipras - Kammenos memorandum, to explore the movements of Varoufakis and its consequences in the economy. You refuse to investigate your handling of health and, of course, you deny Mr Kammenos today the examination of Mr. Kammenos. You're full of words. There is a great deal of talk on all issues and on transparency and, at the end, nothing. Why else would you explain how, firstly, controls on fuel smuggling were reduced between 2014 and 2016 by 53%, the decisions to impose fines of 75%, the amount of fines imposed by 90%, which in fact only amount to 10%? Second theme for an answer: The recent fact that the Greek State, in 2016, lost EUR 600 million from cigarette smuggling, while Greece became the second country in the European Union with the highest consumption of illegal cigarettes. Thirdly, despite your old majestic statements, the State Secretary responsible has recently informed us that only EUR 43 million have been collected from the Lagard list and that they have been confirmed - not collected - only EUR 10.9 million from the Borgians list and indeed with checks that started before 2014 by the previous government. Don't forget that. Are these the huge sums that you would collect from the fight against tax evasion to keep the Greek economy on its feet? I am now addressing not the ministers, but the Members of SYRIZA. Either now or in the next phase this committee of inquiry will become - be sure - and everything will come to light. There's no way he's gonna mask this case. So do you agree, or not, that no Minister has the right to intervene in justice, to replace the interrogator, the judge in a European democracy? If so, I invite you all to vote in favour of this committee of inquiry together. It's an opportunity, finally, to give a message that no one, but nobody, is above the Constitution and the laws in that country. Let's finally agree on this element, all of us together. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] I refer again to Mr Tsipras. You cannot, Prime Minister, appear as honors of others and shake our fingers. You didn't have any moral advantage. Now you are now judged for acts and omissions. Do you have a new opportunity today to show in practice that you believe in clearance, because, although you still do not, if you do not do so today, do you know what you will have done? You'll just confirm that you don't want the clearance, transparency, because you're afraid. You know what you're afraid of? The revelations that "August man" is gathered in your own court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u198	Thank you, Mrs. Gennamas. Two speakers will be followed on the list and then Mr Lazaridis, the Parliamentary Representative of the ANELs, will intervene. So Mr. Ioannis Kefaliannis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u199	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, under normal circumstances, that is, under conditions of respect for Parliament, and I think also fundamental self-respect, one would expect that today's debate would be a purely procedural one. Everyone, unfortunately or happily, remembers that in this very Chamber about two months ago, the Minister of National Defence, Mr. Kammenos, sent out the threat to the Civicism, refusing to answer what he said, but mainly because he said it with the condemned isovita, Mr. Giannosakis, and directly caused the Members of the New Democracy - and I read from the Minutes of 3 July 2017 - saying: 'For this criminal case, if you want to put forward a motion of censure and a motion of censure now. Statement now.’ Mr Vorides answers: 'Let's leave what we will do.' Panos Kammenos: “Leave the threats. Submission of a motion of censure or lodge a motion of censure. Check it out. You are threatened by the newspapers.’ I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, a Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Kefaloyannis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We therefore have, ladies and gentlemen, the following data: A Minister, who is confident, is causing a party to reveal the truth about a case in which his name is involved and indeed asking for the major one: a motion of censure or a preliminary inquiry committee. The New Democracy therefore agrees to explore the issue in the context of parliamentary scrutiny by asking, in fact, for a proposal for a committee of inquiry. And all, of course, almost the anti-population parties - they have said this today - accept this proposal, agreeing to pour out plenty of light and reveal all the dark aspects, if any, of this case. In fact, there is the isovite who, in his interview, says that he is willing to come to the committee of inquiry to put himself on the subject. I have also watched the President of Parliament, Mr Voutsi, publicly say that the committees of inquiry should be set up even if there is no evidence of a political person's criminal responsibilities. On this basis, I would like to ask a direct question to Mr Kammenos, the Minister of National Defence: is he not the one who asked for a committee of inquiry, in fact, and a motion of censure on this matter? So why are you all here today - have we heard SYRIZA's Coupling - hiding behind this and saying that you are not accepting it? Me, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this in my village, at least, is what is called "free man"! It was Mr Kammenos, who said'submit a motion for a preliminary inquiry', who was tabled by the New Democracy and you are all here today and you are arguing that it should not be accepted. Answer this question and the ones you will follow and, of course, Mr Kammens, when he comes here to answer it. The government's majority, even early on, decided that the New Democracy's request was a waste of money, and I heard from many colleagues that it was a diversion. Of course, I could ask myself, why is it a diversion? Will the development that has flooded the country and distract us from addressing these issues? In fact, today it has also, unfortunately, been closed by the largest ice cream production plant currently in existence in Greece and there are about a hundred people on the road. Objection from what? From the ecological disaster these days in the Saronic? A diversion from the first dose of ENPIA, which Greeks have to pay? Well, let's get serious. I think that the social and political reality created by your own government is much more grim than the case that we are discussing today. Thank God, with its achievements the government always takes care to keep our interest very high. The essence of what we are discussing today is that the government and the Prime Minister personally, Mr Tsipras, chose and chose to play the role of Mr Kammenos's lawyer and take over his responsibility for what has happened. From today, ladies and gentlemen, in particular, the Coupling, with your vote, you are becoming politically accomplices and therefore call on everyone, personally, to fight, I think, with their conscience. Here, of course, two tunes may happen: Whether the Prime Minister, Mr. Tsipras, was aware and had given his approval to Mr. Kammenos and, of course, if that is the case, Mr. Tsipras should explain to us why he and other government officials met with the entrepreneur involved in the Maximos Palace as early as May, if he had given his approval to Mr. Kammenos and therefore considered him to be a brain in this case. I think that is one more reason to proceed with the committee of inquiry. If Mr Tsipras were not informed again, then I am sorry to say that such initiatives have made himself a pretext for the initiatives of a minister, who is pursuing a personal policy and still leaves himself exposed to meetings with potential, according to Mr Kammenos, drug dealers. Of course, in this case, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, you have my understanding. You are today obliged to follow the attitudes of your government partner in order to ensure his support and not to lead to elections. I don't see that it's a humble motive, but it's perfectly understandable. It fully explains the rush with which you hasten to reject the New Democracy's request as a diversion. Unfortunately, since the movement "I don't pay", when you were in opposition, you have gone to the movement "I don't give up" since you're in the government. From this, however, until you call for a lot of legal arguments in order to justify your current position, it goes a great deal. For example, I do not know how convenient it is for SYRIZA colleagues, particularly lawyers, when they are listening to Mr Janakopoulos to say whether there is any law prohibiting the Minister from speaking with an indictment and not with any defendant, but a person who has been sentenced to life for drug trafficking. So let me tell you the self-evident answer. Apparently, there's a law, and that's the Constitution. It is called a distinction of powers, ladies and gentlemen. Any minister, a member of the executive, can't call twelve times, for twenty minutes, a isovite.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u200	What's it called?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u201	Constitution!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u202	Finish, Mr. Kefaliannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u203	I shall conclude, Mr President. It's the separation of powers. So I wonder how tangled...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u204	I know three powers in the separation of powers. If there's a fourth one...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u205	I'll tell you, Mr. Comrade. So I wonder how tangled you must feel yourself that you have come to claim that the Minister of National Defence is any citizen in a similar case. I, in fact, shall also present the conclusion made by Mr Bracoumachos. And so that Mr. Kontonis does not deny it, I also submit his zougla.gr post on 15-9-2017, which even now is posted and one can get in and print it. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Kefaloyannis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So let's go see what anyone's doing...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u206	Mr. Kefaliannis, please, you've reached seven and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u207	Give me a minute more, Mr President. So let's go see what any citizen is doing, according to the Minister of Justice: First, then, he's tracking a isovite who wants to tell the truth. And I imagine it's too easy, it gets him on the road. After he spotted him, then he's looking for his cell phone. And, of course, how can a isovirus have a cell phone in jail? Neither did the Minister, Mr Kammenos, nor did anyone else, who was involved in the case. He didn't worry about it at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u208	After an investigation had been ordered.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u209	Yes, of course, but Mr. Kammenos didn't bother him?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u210	Please don't interrupt! Mr. Kefaliannis, finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u211	Mr. Kammen who took him to his cell phone 12 times didn't he care about the fact that he had a cell phone?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u212	I was expecting to hear something more constructive.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u213	Excuse me, if that's not constructive, then what is it? And I will conclude with a question to Mr. Contonis. It refers to the findings I have just submitted - and it is public - that on the same day he contacted the prosecutor and the Minister of Justice and told her that Giannousakis wants to submit new information on the case "NOOR 1". I ask you directly, Minister: How did you know that Mr. Giannousakis wanted to testify? Are you doing this in other cases to take prosecutors and tell them that the defendant wants to file new evidence? I think you should answer that thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u214	And that's it, Mr. Kefaliannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u215	And I'm closing up with it, of course. I am inviting a public document, which I have just tabled, and I think you are also inviting me to reply to this question: How did you know that Mr Giannousakis wanted to give information, and indeed Mrs Ghiva told you? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u216	Mr. Aristides Baltas has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u217	Thank you, Mr President. Let me start my speech by raising a more general question that covers a little longer than today and by linking this debate to the end of today's debate with this question. The question is: How is it possible, all of the last time, before the latest assessment and so far, to all the individual issues that have arisen in the meantime, the New Democracy, with its President and Vice-President, and all the political forces of counter-population following a criticism of SYRIZA and his Government - the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, as you say - is destroying the country economically, that it creates all kinds of problems for workers, zeros pensions, increases taxes, abolishes alpha, slips away from the beta and all the things known and reach the distractions, such as this debate? And how is it possible to express this criticism when, during the evaluation and immediately thereafter, all the partners - if you like - all the newspapers, particularly the outsiders, all the institutions of Europe, all the political parties in Europe expressly or indirectly state that the state of the economy in Greece is going much better, that it is going very well mutatis mutandis and that the exit from the memorandums is visible? You know we have to do things with which we disagree. We have said it many times and we have explained it from the outset. With this in mind, the Greek people once again trusted us with the government and knowing that we also promised that we would respect commitments with which we disagree and which we have undertaken and which we, of course, respect. In keeping with these commitments, we have arrived here. On this basis, the image I mentioned was formed. So, how is it possible, gentlemen of counter-population, all your own similarities abroad, institutional and economic factors, big newspapers and so on to say alpha and you say exactly the opposite? Are you not afraid that this is how you are being exposed to the eyes of your partners, when in addition, you are constantly being prospered and prospering that what you are looking for is more and more Europe? Aren't you afraid that's how you're exposed? That's the question. Let me give you an answer. In at least one sense Greece is not like all the other countries of Europe. In all the countries of Europe - and in America and everywhere - there can obviously be a great scandal, committees of inquiry, courts and so on. Also, as you know, and here we have cases of this kind, from 'SIEMENS' and 'NOVARTIS' up to what we are discussing on health. If there is something special in Greece in relation to the other countries of Europe, it is what I would venture to call "medium complexion". Here are alleged trade unionists, state-of-the-art and political actors, businessmen - mainly in introductory terms because their entrepreneurship is linked to the state grant - and not all employees are immaterial, so that within this system it is dispersed in every direction of public money and, at the same time, customer-related networks such as those that dominate the country over the last few decades are structured. I think this is a special feature of Greece, at least in this form. This feature was based on the governments of post-population. Ordinary PASOK and New Democracy and Tubalin mutations were based on the duration, strength and flexibility of these kinds of mechanisms. So these mechanisms - keep the word - are conditions for the reproduction of your own political system. You - and we come to the solution of the question - are afraid that SYRIZA may harm these very conditions of reproduction. In the face of this fear you are opposed as you oppose SYRIZA, because maintaining these mechanisms as much as changing color in the meantime is the main for you. It ensures your own reproduction, your own " chairs", as you say. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. The passion you display by repeating again and again to all the tones and all the grounds that we recommend something as an anomaly for the normal flow of things, that we must be parentheses as soon as possible, expresses just this muscular fear of you, that the middle complication, that is, the terms of reproduction of your own system, are at risk from us. So you continue this kind of opposition, even with the risk of being ridiculed at your fellow citizens abroad to deal with this possibility in advance, this maximum threat to you. That is the answer to the question that I have just expressed and just let me end by adding something else. As you know, gentlemen, in politics, the opponent is the opponent. Let me say here that you are very bad teachers, because you are not criticising where you should, where you could, and where you would help the country to better yourself and to win votes, by pointing out the gaps that, in fact, we have also omissions that we have not yet covered. But you choose to practice this kind of policy that often reaches the limits of funnyness. Evidently, it is funny, as we have seen from all the debate today, that the debate on the Committee of Inquiry into Calls in the middle of an investigation involving two and a half tons of pure heroin, a scandal greater if you want to do so by SIEMENS and by NOVARTIS and so on. So let me add by ending that this poor teaching practice is not unselfish. We know that the bad teacher tends to make bad students. With your poor teaching practice you rather intend to make us the same as you, as bad as you, as you, assimilate us, to integrate us into your system of governance. Only then may you no longer consider us anomaly and bad parentheses. But we expressly state that we have no intention of becoming the same with you. So try to raise the level of your criticism, to better you become better teachers, both for your own good and for the good of the place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u218	Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, George Lazarides, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u219	Thank you, Mr President. Following the decision of the Prosecutor of Piraeus, I understand that the Civic Opposition is run by panic and embarrassment. Piraeus Prosecutor with a decision sets the complaints of Isovite Giannusakis in the archives. The finding states that no evidence has been found to haunt the complaints against the prosecutor, Mrs. Jiva. As for the Minister of National Defence Mr Kammenos, he was referred to the House for purely formal reasons, as is provided for in the Constitution. After that, one is aware of the awkwardness and the gap in which the opposition lies. She was burned by all her opposition papers. Now that burned her up, too. What's he gonna do? Will he question the judgment of justice? The attack of the Officerial Response was based on the complaints made by the Isovite Giannusakis against the Minister of National Defence. These are complaints, however, which have been completely unfounded. Once again, the opposition is exposed. You have decided to identify yourself with the side of those who are being investigated, so that you may be exposed and expose your party. The most honest of society in such a large drug-trafficking case would be to demand that plenty of light be spilled and that procedures be speeded up, that we ask for cross-party cooperation and all together be hit by criminals. Now, once again you are exposed, shredded in the margin of history and society. Colleagues, colleagues of the Officerate have decided two months ago to request a committee of inquiry. Ladies and gentlemen, do you care that the case is still in justice? Are you ignoring that there is a risk that there will be problems in the judicial investigation of the case and that there will be further delays? Normally, this is where we should be discussing why the case is moving so slowly. What results have we had since the summer of 2014, so the case is in the hands of justice? The Minister of National Defense has asked you to ask for a pre-examination committee. Why didn't you? There is no evidence, nor is there any evidence of anything that justifies this. Your aim is, therefore, to create impressions and to disorientate public opinion or, otherwise, what you are doing, that is, to disorientate the world from the successes that this government has had. Take note, however, because while the government is trying to reveal and illuminate this incrediblely large case, you, in your actions, show that you do not care about disclosure and do not care if your miserable actions will reveal a cover-up, because you are actually preventing the work of justice. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot accept a committee of inquiry because this would lead to further delays in the matter. Why do you want the case to be delayed? Does it not concern you that, since 2014, progress has been minimal? Doesn't it bother you that electronics, but also paper media, have little to do with it? In order to be more specific, than in the newspapers, two - three - all the others - or almost all - who are friendly in the Opposition, whether they have not dealt with the case at all, have done so little and have not done so to criticise the delay in the investigations or to highlight the truly dangerous dimension of the case, but on the phone of the Minister for National Defence. They ignore the substance, i.e. the three tons of heroin. Three tons of heroin. Nine pounds got caught and left to Kosovo. Two thousand pounds were caught inside the ship. They ignore the substance, namely the three tons of heroin that would kill hundreds of thousands of children. They ignore the need to find the guilty. Their sensitivity focuses - it is assumed - on the separation of powers. Ladies and gentlemen, we are proud of the Minister of National Defence, because he showed braveness and responded to the request of the prisoner, who was concerned about his life and about the protection of his family, who in 2014, notable, in his initial statements named faces and things. What threats and by whom do they come from and forced him to take them back? When he asked for protection from the Minister of National Defence, the Minister was addressed to the Minister of Justice. We must not forget that eight people died. It's a fact that's undeniable. And that justifies the fear of the isobite.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u220	Witnesses in the case.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u221	That's right. It was the eight of them. In fact, they lost their lives in a cinematic way. He's the only witness in life today. It must therefore be protected if we want to come to the revelation of this whole vast case. A case that goes beyond the country's limits. A quantity of drugs that shocked and sensitized the world community. In fact, the United States Secret Service has decided that the funding of terrorist and other organisations behind this case is hidden behind it. The European Parliament in the report of the Committee of Inquiry into the Drugs problem in Europe as early as 1986 concluded - I quote - 'Narcotics traffickers are already in a position to influence the state of operation of entire countries'. That means in a word: Escobar in Europe. Conclusions that make you creepy. To go back to 'NOOR 1', ladies and gentlemen, and now see what the value of the three tons of pure heroin was, or else how much money the traffickers involved would earn. On the basis of calculations by experts from the European Union, this heroin would make them profit from the lives of 6 billion euros. We're talking about incredible numbers, ladies and gentlemen. I would ask you, then, how many more of these ships have gone before 'NOOR 1'? How many billions have the criminals involved put into their funds? I am referring again to the European Union report, which says that drug traffickers affect the state function of entire countries. You see, only from a ship's cargo would be worth six billion. This financial result gives them the power to do what the European Union says in its report. How? Buying media (news, channels, blogs, etc.), football teams, political parties, municipalities, companies and others, i.e. they can direct public opinion and control masses. As you can see, we're talking about incredible power. We must therefore react to these phenomena and not drift away from procedures, which only hamper the development of the case. Ladies and gentlemen, the three tons of heroin were delivering 1 billion to the villains. Around one tonne was reportedly channelled to the Balkans. Who's that? Mr. National Defence Minister, in the troubled Balkans and especially in the region of Kosovo, we all know who they are. Therefore, very much attention is needed at our borders. Ladies and gentlemen, why are you not joining this brave decision by Panos Kammenos to strike together the scourge of drugs, to protect the Greeks, but also democracy in our country, so as not to suddenly see the phenomenon of Escobar in our homeland? There's nothing to be afraid of. Panos Kammenos came in front of this fair fight against drug dealers to help justice, protect witnesses to reveal the truth. So we urge you to join the government in this fight against the traffickers of death, the enemies of the people and democracy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And before I close, I would like to say that some colleagues have a particular moral conception. Of course, we heard from the Chief of Officer's Representation that they have a strange way of expressing themselves. I'll say they have a strange moral concept. They consider it immoral for a married couple to go to a legitimate casino or club without debiting the public at all, while they consider moral to ask them for loans of 240,000,000 euros, to be paid by the Greek people. That's moral to them. As it is moral to characterize the judges as "smooth". That's the strange idea. And one more thing and I'll be in two seconds, Mr. President. I first heard Mrs Gennamas say about the time she took the question, that it was night, etc. And I read through the public prosecutor's decision, which reads: "According to Article 240 of the Common Criminal Code, there is no restriction on the place and time of interrogation. The interrogation can also be done during the night and on Sundays and holidays. It follows from the above that the term ‘interview’ includes a preliminary examination’, Kontaxis, Code of Criminal Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u222	Mr. John Shahinides has the floor since the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u223	Thank you, Mr President. From what we have seen today in this Chamber, at least in communications, you have managed very well. All of you want to fight drugs, all of you want to offer justice. But you have not told us how much truth you can withstand, how much transparency you stand in this Chamber and how much justice you are. There was a previous reference to the many positions made by Minister Kontonis and referred to moral and natural perpetrators. He probably does not know that this Chamber does not show either morals or natural self-government, we are not a court of law. This is a job of justice. He also made a reference to the position of our Parliamentary Representative, Yiannis Rabbit. Our Parliamentary spokesman did not make a complaint, he made a reference to exactly as was stated in the report submitted by the isovite. Indeed, against your political courage, I would say, we are opposed to political courage. In fact, the competitor Yiannis Lagos said that if all this is proved to have the courage, strength and males to apologise to the Minister. But let us move on to the debate on the establishment of a committee of inquiry. In this case, the involvement of the Minister of National Defence Mr Kammenos and other officials and officials in an outstanding court case is being investigated. In summary, with regard to the questions and concerns raised in the proposal, I will mention some: The Minister for National Defence speaks to a isovita, something is said, but in no case can the reason for such an initiative be justified. A D.A.'s going in the middle of midnight in jail. A reporter communicates with some others etc., etc. Since 6 June, ladies and gentlemen, this issue had come to Parliament. We owe it to the President-in-Office on that day, Mr Nikita Kaklamani, because unfortunately for you, in certain crises of truth that take place in this Chamber, he said from a microphone - and fortunately for us these are recorded in the Minutes - that for everything that has been heard the House has not brought any responsibility at all, but only the speaker, Mr Lagos. We thank him for telling the truth about who has really highlighted what we are discussing today and who has brought it to Parliament first. And to know what we say and to speak with names, twelve whole days there was no question of discussion in this House, neither from any media, from channels, nor from newspapers. Today the New Democracy is coming and presents a proposal for a debate and a decision to set up a committee of inquiry. And it's good. However, it gives us the right to assume that during this 12-day period it has been thoroughly examined whether a member of her own is accidentally involved in this case. And after they saw rather not getting involved, they thought it would be a good thing that the Golden Dawn brought to take advantage of it after twelve whole days. In fact, as I mentioned before, Piraeus Yiannis Lagos brought it from there as well and all others followed. So the New Democracy is coming today and it is putting forward this proposal for the committee to be set up, as I have said before you, with the information we have brought. In this context, we must make a few remarks. When the word 'examination committees' is heard, the gatherings are: the reasons for impressions, no results, cover-ups, etc. How many committees, in fact, have not been set up here in scrupulously, with heavy statements, always inclined to shed plenty of light, with positions, with interventions and so on.Huh? But the result? That's the one thought. The other thought is about who he is who testifies what. An investigation of a political person in an pending court case is being requested here. And it is good to say that in our view. By whom, though? From the New Democracy Party. Only, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, 2013 is not far behind. And it turns out, here in this Chamber, your wing forgets very easily. So ask the New Democracy for the intervention of a political person in an pending case. In fact, its President, Mr Mitsotakis, said that there is evidence in today's debate to set up a committee of inquiry. In our case, ladies and gentlemen, when we submitted the case-file for the intervention of the former Head of State of New Democracy, there was evidence. There's a huge difference. Also, the Chief of the New Democracy said he was close to justice, keeping distances. How close would you like to be to justice? Be a Jew? And indeed, it was also heard by the President of the New Democracy that he would protect justice. They didn't tell us who would protect us from them! When polls were received then, in 2013, and they had brought to light a terriblely significant rise for the nationalist movement, they began and followed what I said. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. They forgot, of course, the famous call Samaras to the then prosecutor of the Ice Bay. They forgot New Democracy's Minister for Justice and Governance, Mr Athanasios, they forgot how all of them had intervened during the interrogations of the Chief of Golden Dawn, Christos Papapas, and the rest of the MPs. They forgot Samaras when he called and asked for the other three MPs to be guarded using hybrid expressions, as the Baltaku video was forgotten. Generally in this Chamber everything is very easy to forget. We, because as a nationalist movement we have experienced what will really say intervention by a political person in an outstanding criminal case, have experienced what blockage in the work of justice, we want it to be lighted out. We want to examine the complaints that we first brought to the House and we call for a committee of inquiry to be set up. However, we also call on you, your Government, to appeal to a committee of inquiry to investigate the possible criminal responsibilities of former Prime Minister Antonis Samaras for the act of the challenge of a crime, Article 186, paragraph 2 of the Criminal Code, and in particular for the fact that he urged judicial officers to commit the breach of duty, Article 259 of the Criminal Code. Everything that I have said highlights the excess of political hypocrisy in matters relating to interventions in Greek justice. Finally, I have to point out to you that genuine and truly independent justice in Greece can only exist with one national government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u224	Mr. Vassilis Tsirkas from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u225	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate on the establishment of a committee of inquiry into the Minister of Defence, I would say, is another desperate attempt by the New Democracy to create a climate of scandal, supposedly a scandal, since its account of the total destruction of the economy has collapsed. And now begins a new round of disaster at a time when the country is turning a page. Because after many years of recession and constant austerity, we are facing a new reality, since we have a clear outlet in front of the memoranda and the hard comitology. And despite the diversion movements attempted by the Anti-Population, we remain committed to achieving our main goal: Exiting the country from the memorials, hard surveillance through the recovery of the Greek economy. And this objective today is more feasible than ever before. In this new period the country has gradually returned to positive growth, after so many years of recession and stagnation. Unemployment is falling, while fiscal performance is moving above the target, with indicators of vital economic activities recording dynamic growth. This objective reality refuses to accept it by the Qualified Opposition, which cannot be opposed to any policy area, since it itself has to show only the consequences of its destructive policies. Even when it is attempting, as we saw recently in the IGC, it is projecting corrupt and destructive neoliberal policies that have bankrupt the country and the economy. The New Democracy plan includes redundancies and privatization of public goods, that is, another memorandum. And following the tactics of these diversions, which led to today's debate in plenary, we now have the new attitude of the Officerial Opposition which he intends to take from now on, that is to say, the irrational position of voting against even what he agrees, which I would say is a threat to the very functioning of the parliamentary system, that is, to the functioning of democracy. And the only reason he's trying to do this is because he doesn't care about the public interest. We are, however, going on to implement our plan for a Greek without memorials, without those who now appear like saviours and want to save the country, without those who have a great responsibility for plundering public wealth, who sacrificed growth on the altar of seashore, leaving the great majority unprotected. And we have proved our determination by giving great battles both abroad and abroad to defend the interests of the Greek people, to put an end to the immunity of certain circles and systems. And we have brought to the surface cases of real corruption, cases that have been shocked by the pan-Hellenic in previous years and, to a large extent, by the consciousness of the Greek society are major causes of bankruptcy and crisis. We did not, however, see the Qualified Opposition held by the same zeal to stumble on complexity and corruption there, clearly placed on issues that are open and some of them are already the subject of committees of inquiry. Mr Mitsotakis and the New Democracy have decided at the outset to follow a path of catastrophe and politically invest in the possible failure, the involvement of negotiations for the final exit from the memoranda. The whole debate, ladies and gentlemen, on intervention in justice, is legally irresponsible, because at no point in this matter, as has been said here today by other speakers, no attempt has been made by anyone to point to the way in which it will work on a particular matter. In any case, judicial investigation is under way. And if we respect justice, we must respect its results too. And to be a moral automobile, as has been said before, there must also be a natural automobile. And the natural automobile was not judged criminal and retired. It is clear, therefore, that there is nothing to suggest the composition of such a committee of inquiry. On the other hand, the New Democracy is trying to pre-pay justice, and what should be of interest today is this investigation to produce results on the substance of the case. To be poured out, that is, abundant light on this case of trafficking in huge quantities of drugs. For our part, we are committed not to covering anything, not to stumble, not to retreat against those forces that have undermined the public interest, who have broken public money, who have bribed and bribed and washed black money. The Greek Government, in the context of its constitutional possibilities, and also of the judiciary, has done and will continue to do everything in its power to allow Greek justice to be allowed to look at all these cases and the Greek people to learn, but also the responsible ones to be found and punished. We are going ahead with the political plan for the next two years. And with the economy turning page after a difficult negotiation cycle, what we should be interested in is society starting to grasp the fruits of this development. The field of real confrontation is reality, and reality is constantly improving, but it is also the economy that is constantly recovering. In fact, we are judged on a daily basis by the citizens, and we will finally be judged in the elections at the end of the four-year period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u226	The parliamentary representative from Potami, Mr Mavrotas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u227	Thank you, Mr President. Let's get right to the case. One minister speaks to a journalist and then speaks twelve times to a isovite, a drug dealer who is in prison for a case of 2.1 tons of heroin. This is not a trailer from the 'House of Cards' or 'Narcos' series, which is essentially the story of Pablo Escobar. It's a combination of both we don't know if we'll ever see him on TV. But we see him on the Greek political scene. But where is the strange thing, ladies and gentlemen? Did the Minister not have a good signal and he had to call twelve times a convicted man to tell him the truth? In other words, "drugs are a very bad thing", "say the truth, they will save the Greek society and the Greek youth". Are there any phones in prison to communicate prisoners with journalists and ministers? Where's the weird thing? The fact that an prosecutor started in Genoa's black night to travel to Paul to get a statement from the isovite, who finally saw a signicant dream and regretd it? Or the fact that the case is clear, a matter of national defence - and we still heard this in the House - and there had to be a involvement of the Minister of National Defence? Or that for the cases of public-interest informants, the well-known 'whistleblowers' do not have proper services, but should the Minister of National Defence do so too? So where's the weird part? And what is it for consideration to ask for a committee of inquiry? All of this is for you normally and daily and they don't need investigation. Business asUS! But to be serious now, some questions. Was Mr. Kammenos in consultation with the Minister of Justice when he made these communications? If it were, how could Mr. Contonis allow that? Can a minister act by parole and call detainees, while their case is to be judged to a second degree? Do other ministers do that? And if, as Mr Kontonis says, Mr. Kammenos, but also Mr. Paraparapulos, in the Committee on Institutions and Transparency, was in the course of a legal procedure, then he has nothing to fear and he can easily make the contents of the talks public, that is to say, to lift the telephone secret for the twelve talks on his own hand and to shine the truth. Simple as that. But if he doesn't, there's something wrong with history. I have also heard that it is not right for the House to become a 'industrial committee of inquiry'. As a Veteran pioneer in the examinations, for the loans of parties and the media, and now for health, I will not disagree. But now we remember that? When the examinations concern opponents, do they not belong to the examination industry? Are these the useful examinations, while the others concerning the government's innermostness are useless? This is a committee of inquiry which has nothing to do with the smuggling of public money, such as the previous ones, but with the smuggling of institutional capital. The involvement of ministers in such cases is just as painful for democracy as infidelity. Parental involvement in bad judicial cases is infidelity to distinguish the powers laid down in the Constitution and anyone who supports this is not Mr Marinakis' finger, but the finger of a typified institutional function. And if a minister doesn't know his limits, how to trust him with a ministry's fates, how much more so when this ministry is the Department of National Defence. On this occasion, I should like to state in the Minutes what our President, Mr Theodorakis, said about the 1994 New Democracy conference, which said that the originals of the coup need to be restored. [[At this point, the Member, George Mavrotas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] These are, then, useful examinations, while the others concerning your government’s innermostness are useless. In conclusion, may I say a few words to you, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, on the occasion of your current support to Mr Kammenos and the ANELs. You are convening because I imagine you are basically in agreement, and you have, as you say, legitimate objections to the most important ones. Besides, the government representative, Mr Janakopoulos, said so the other day, saying that you agree with the big ones. In other words, your rights are small, because apart from citizenship, the mosque, the cohabitation pact, cremation, the issue of gender identity will come tomorrow. In all this, you disagree with the co-pilots. So I assume that - according to Mr Janakopoulos always - these are not big, they are small. It's so low the rights on your value scale that you make them a garrison in front of staying in power. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Then what moral advantage are you talking about? I see an entrepreneurial advantage that supports a cynical alliance of power, an alliance that closes eyes to rights. We don't have rights bargains, and that's how these issues are finally going through. And that is our difference: Unlike you, we put our values above your thirst for power. I know you're dissatisfied with saying this, but you know that this is the truth. You are simply putting in front of the corruption and the complexity of the former to have an alibi to yourself by saying at least these hands are clean. But that is what others have said. What if we accept what's going on, that's enough? Finally, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, the policy is to defend principles and values. Today you will vote on the fact that some paradoxes and sub-world practices should not be investigated and all this was well-burned. With your choices you are trapped in an uncomfortable dilemma: or the principle - that is, your authority - or your principles. And it's obvious that you have chosen the first, putting a lot of water on the second, so much water I see sinking like "AYZONI II" and scrubbing the "left Riviera" of your ideas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u228	Mr Spyridon-Adonis Georgiadis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u229	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I regret that Mr Panagiotis Kammenos is not in the Chamber. I imagine he will then answer what I am going to say, but I should like to address all of you, the Members of the SYRIZA, because the real problem is you. Well, you have literally unravelled me with all the power of your Left soul, 100 times, two times - Mr. Papadimoulis in his dozens of tweets - for a dedication he made to me in his book Patakos. Yes, sir. Previously, when Mr. Theodorakis mentioned the late Georgian, Mr. Kammenos stood up and referred to some judicial decisions, he overshadowed the case so that your left conscience would be well, didn't he? I present for the Minutes of the House the following document, which is a post from the website e - Nikos.gr by Mr. Hadjikolaou, the original one is from the "E" of "ELETERTERROTYPIA". It is an interview in 1996 by George Georgalas - late now - on his relationship with Panos Kammenos, in which he interviewed "ELEVERROTYPTIA" - in which he was approved at the time - writes: "I do not cooperate with the New Democracy. Solo with Panos Kammenos only. I advise him and write his reasons." [[At this point the Member, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] And because Georgalas then protested about what "ELETEROTYPIA" wrote, Mr. Vitsa, who are also friends now with Kammenos - you are disturbed by Georgiadis right-wing, but the Kammenos nothing, because you have a chair - see here, from "ELEEROTYPIA", not to say that I call it. Mr. Panagiotou Kammenos's letter was sent to us from the press office of MP II Athens. Take her for the Minutes because I questioned what Stavros Theodorakis said. [[At this point the Member, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And because he said about the book "terrorism", but Theodorakis didn't have the paper to say it, from the newspaper "Dimoratia" now. It is, Mr. Vitsa, published Mr. Georgios Georgios Georgalas' extrajudicial to Panos Kammenos. Now listen to what the late Georgian wrote: "Mr. Kammene, as you know, I have been your communication adviser on communication issues in your election struggles in the past. In addition, you commissioned me and wrote a book on terrorism issued in your name and made an effective contribution to your personal promotion. Unfortunately, you did not respect our economic agreement. You also received...’. In order to keep your polylogys out, he asked him for 14,000 euros. Take this for the Minutes, too. [[At this point the Member, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Georgalus paid them, obviously, so he also won the trial. Turn what might have happened! I put these down because I want to prove to you, Mr. Vitsa - and do not laugh at all - how liars and hypocrites you are!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u230	I know why you're a left fighter. On your face, I see the Left now. It's not personal. Or Mr. Manios, who was somewhere, when his name was mentioned, had him in the book as a terrorist of November 17, or Mrs. Tasia. Because in front of your chair and Georgalas you will swallow and the casino will swallow and the roulette will swallow and all the other things you say in here is to spend time! And I'll get them a little bit. Mr. Papagelopoulos, you surprised me. You said that some - it says - small people want to dynamise the political climate while Greece is coming out of the memorandum. Isn't that what you said? Do you remember in this room who called the Prime Minister of the country, George Papandreou, broker? Mr. Panagiotis Kammenos! Do you remember who said "Greek girls" and "Greeks"? Mr. Panagiotis Kammenos! Man, you're likeable. Can you come to the Greek Parliament to represent Panos Kammenos and give us a speech on the continental political speech and consensus? Are you all right? Man has made careers in abusing, dividing and slandering. Unless you think we've all been a team of Alzheimer's. But you also said the other argument, which is shocking. That now - he says - justice deals with this case and any of our own involvement, Mr Manda, your Minister said here - I know it from our health examination - any involvement in the case, when justice is investigating, is a sign that we do not trust justice. Henry Dunn is not investigating it, Minister? The CEDEFOP isn't investigating it? Novartis' drugs are not investigated by justice? What happened? There, when you're investigating this examination, do you show that you're not respecting justice? A SYRIZA colleague replied - I did not keep his name, he is not one of those who speak often - and he says: 'One more', because that is Tsipras's argument, you know. Why? Because, he says, these are really scandals, and what we do today is not real. Well, we're not leaving what we're talking about now. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Don't whistle, sir, in the Chamber. So, why don't we just drop this and talk a little bit about the serious stuff? Well, listen to me about the serious stuff. Listen to what's serious. He said Mr Condonis, who unfortunately is not in the Chamber, that he is not - he says - intervention to call the Minister. It's an intervention if the Minister calls the interrogator, the judge. But I asked Mr Kammenos for three months now: 'Mr. Christoforides, the port official who made the interrogation, did you happen to speak?' Have you heard any of Mr. Kammenos's interviews referred to Christoforides? Never! I said to him: "Do you want it not to become any examination? Bring your phone bills to the House to see if you were speaking at the same time to the interrogator." Did you ever hear him answer about it? Never! And do you know who you're gonna stop to see if he was talking to Christoforides at the same time? Speaking! And I'm telling you, I know how arrogant he is. You with your vote! Why are you refusing to become the committee of inquiry in this House, in fact, what are you doing? George's partner, you cover him to be MPs and ministers. So don't play too much on my left. As far as the others he said about the decisions and the slandering discredits were concerned, and because Mr Condonis said that it was not a good day for this debate, I would say that the day was a perfect day. Today, the decision was issued by the Athens Poly Members of the Court of First Instance - I submit it for the Minutes - where Panos Kammenos was convicted of slandering against the editor of the newspaper "Parapolistica" Giannis Kourtakis for everything he has said about "NOOR 1". Today, for everything he has said about "NOOR 1", for Giannis Kourtakis, he has been sentenced by the court and you are protecting him here in the House. [[At this point the Member, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[Noise in the Chamber]] Don't laugh, dear and put on a tie! Half the events put a tie on the other half of it, not. If you like the tie, put it on everyone. So listen. You're the sychophant, whom the court today convicted, protect him. Why are you protecting him? Because you like to be MPs, so swallow the Georgian, so swallow the roulette with the casino. He said before Mr Kammenos: 'I paid for my own expenses'. Oh, no? Mr. Vitsa, isn't it? Listen. Mr. Kammenos has given a series of interviews in the past where he has said that he is so poor that he cannot pay for the charm and on his "subsequently" he has little money declared.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u231	Eight thousand euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u232	Eight thousand.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u233	Mr. Georgiadis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u234	I'll be back in a minute, Mr. President. With what exactly money did Mr. Kammens pay the most expensive London hotel and went to the casino? Well, I'm asking for a deal. Do you want to make the deal? Don't make it. To bring today to the end of the meeting the credit card bill that paid the hotel in London and to make a statement here that it allows the casino to tell any journalist who wants to tell Parliament how much money it spent on the roulette, because the newspaper's report says for a hundred pounds the hit. If he has the courage to bring here his credit card, Minister against corruption. Listen, Minister against corruption. Here comes one with eight thousand euros, and tells the House that he had money to pay for the most expensive hotel in London and go to Roulette as well. You, as Minister, must now ask for what I am asking for, if you are indeed fighting corruption, because I claim that he is lying and does not pay for it alone, and he will not bring any proof to the House, nor will anyone who wants to look, ask how much money he played in the roulette. The night she told me here in Parliament - it hasn't been a week, Mr. Vitsa, you may not have seen this - 'I had very hard work in London and ten minutes I stole to get a Barbie for my daughter from SELFRIDGES'. He had a very heavy job in London, you're right. All night, Roulette's been a heavy night. Where to open his eyes to get Barbie! I'm hanging up with the last card. Well, you know what? After all, because you say about the government's successes, see where the stock market is today. The banks are back in minus 10.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u235	You're lying. You're a liar.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u236	They've arrived minus 40 in a month and a half.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u237	Did he fall from us? The German elections have fallen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u238	I'm not telling you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u239	Don't interrupt. Please complete, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u240	Because you're bragging about your successes, your days are counted. For a few more days in power swallow the Agriculture and everything! Mr. Kontonis, because you were not in the Chamber, the major thing is that you, in your attitude, are preventing us from opening the lines and seeing if he was talking to Christoforides at the same time as Giannoussakis, because your argument is that we should be ashamed of ourselves not having to help with a drug trafficking case. No, Mr. Contonis, you must be ashamed that, in order to stay Minister, you enter and block the investigation, because you know that justice cannot open the lines of the Minister. Only if you vote can the Minister's lines be opened. So what are you doing now? You cover up the case of finding out that he was talking to Christophorides, who got - says - and research now about fuel smuggling. Watch out. All Greece shells with Christofordis and instead of Kourublis TEL, he also gave him research into smuggling. Who are you now? Kurublis - today the video came out - telling us on Friday that he didn't know the owner of "AYIA ZONI II" and danced at the Zaybekko's festivities.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u241	Finish this, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u242	You are: Liars, phantoms, hypocrites! The Kourublis video is watching the whole of Greece. They took it from Facebook of his wife's owner "SYIA ZONI II". And that's why a normal Prime Minister would have kicked him out. [[Noise in the Chamber]] You've said that a thousand times.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u243	There's a video that swears about Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u244	I'll be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u245	Mr. Georgiadis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u246	All right, that's enough! That's as far as it goes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u247	Find Mitsotakis!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u248	To recap: And the casino swallows and Georgian swallow and shield so that justice doesn't go ahead, so you can stay MPs a few more days longer. That was the moral advantage of the Left! The only good thing is that the Greek people have now seen how little you are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u249	You're a little man and you look!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u250	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u251	The floor is held by the Deputy Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights Mr. Dimitris Papagelopoulos for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u252	I would like to thank Mr Georgiades for his public declaration of sympathy for me, and I would like to believe that he will still like me, because I insist on the need for consensus, consensus and national consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u253	Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos has the floor from the Independent Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u254	Thank you, Mr President. A few days ago I saw the Officerial Representation party protesting bad polls. “RESEARCH” landed New Democracy in differences around 6.1, “ALCO” around 7, “COMMON - VIEW” around 3. The bright days of Mr. Marangidis of 20 units went back somewhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u255	What 'COMMON - VIEW'? There's no...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u256	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u257	I will agree with the New Democracy. Well, then, he remembered to protest. He does well and I complain with her, because we are hitting ourselves on the wrong polls and the wrong way that has been going for a long time and sometimes has to get into order. Now let's go further. A few days ago we heard that the issue of "EL Dorado" will be discussed at the Eurogroup. Pleasant desires of the opposition officer's party. That's what was going on. Diaselblum comes out and says: 'No relationship, this matter is not going to be discussed'. They came to say that Justin Trido, the Prime Minister of Canada, intervenes on "EL DORADO" and laughs at every bitter one. They also came to say that McCron himself intervenes on the "EL DORADO". I'm closing the parentheses because I think the excess, sooner or later, has close legs. I still want to say something that concerns me a little bit personally, because it has become viral and because I'm not letting anything fall down. They were trying to nail and toothworm some people who make careers in journalism with the oil clipping - and some other political career - to put in the cradle of Voula, Kavouri, Vouliagmeni, Varkiza and Saronida, who all the people who live there - and there are too many hotels and many businesses - that these beaches have not suffered anything. I dared to say that I went between Voula and Kavuri, because I have a problem, a personal issue, and I think it's a funny thing and I'm even going to ten under zero and I'm doing physiotherapy. They came out and said that five million Athenians should sue him for sowing these news, etc. Voula was never in the forbidden places. Don't remind me. I also close this parenthesis, because I believe that over-excession and unrestrained chatter sooner or later will lead to boomerang. I would first like to believe that we are all respecting the decisions of justice. I would therefore like to present the following to the minutes of the House: the Athens Court of First Instance, the Department of Caring, a special procedure. Decision No 2399/2014. The Athens Poly Members of the Court of First Instance renounces “BIMA”, “NEA”, “Mr. Psyharis”, the director at the time of the paper “BIMA”. I don't want to say all that. The decision is here. I read a little because I don't want to waste time on my speech. Listen a little. It has something to do with the previous one. For the falses they wrote, they shall be required to register within 15 days of the performance of a final judgment in the “HIMA” in the same position, etc. The same applies to ‘NEA’. So is the people who have already been convicted. These as far as Georgian is concerned, as far as the position of Panos Kammenos in the junta is concerned. Here's the litigation, and if anyone disputes justice's decisions, he'll tell us. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, Member, Athanasios Papachristopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Let's go down. I'm going to start a little backwards, see if what the Minister of National Defence did was sticking or not. I say this - so listen to me a little while ago - only with evidence, not with screams. There's a gentleman named Nikolaos Synthrakis. We didn't all know him. He was arrested on 23-9-2014 to have 622,000 in his hands, which he couldn't justify. Authorities did what they had to do. They committed him this amount. Hey, listen up. To reach agreement to see exactly what Mr Panos Kammenos did. In fact, the Customs Union has congratulated the customs authorities for this success, which has made this nice move. Oh the miracle, under Prime Minister Antonis Samaras, Minister of Finance Gika Hardouvelis and General Secretary, Independent Public Income Authority Katerina Savvaidou, this is a strange return. Listen a little. And Mr. Synatakis himself says it was a shipping currency. Who really is Mr. Synthrakis? We looked a little closely at the website of the company 'CAPITAL PRODUCT PARTNERS' by Mr Marinakis. He's on the board. This company, for those they don't know. She's listed on the New York money market. Among the many, therefore, participating in the Board of Directors. He is also Mr Nikolaos Syntrakis, who is even called a director. Another name that will also concern us is Mr. Evangelos Bayartartis. Keep that name, too. What do I mean? So when it happened what happened, Synthrakis is this man, whose strangely returned man. We want here to make a combination, see the move of the G account. TANKERS’. Watch out. They're a company of the judiciary, Mr. Maki Yannusaki. Folded dates are in the summer of 2013, showing the following transfers to the company with amounts. I have it in front of me. Two of these companies, one of which is EXPRESS ENERGY GREECE, in the interests of Mr Marinakis, the period in question sends transfers of 1 million to the G. TANKERS' MARATHON CARRIERS, Bajractaris interests, is the other name on the board of the company of Mr Marinakis, listed on the New York Stock Exchange, transferring the contested period of 150,000 to ‘G’. TANKERS, interests of Mr Giannousakis, owner of 'NOOR 1'. In addition, MARLEX CORPORTION, the interests of Mr Bajraktaris, 90,000 transfers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u258	Mr. Papachristopoulos, you're finishing up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u259	I need some time, Mr President. I am a parliamentary representative and I need some time. My president hasn't spoken, and I need a few more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u260	Excuse me. Six minutes, you're right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u261	No, because my president hasn't spoken yet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u262	But you're not a parliamentary representative. You're on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u263	Can I have your tolerance for at least two minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u264	Let me explain first, so there's no misunderstanding. Your speaking time is six minutes. You've already covered the six and a half minutes. Seven and forty, actually, because I interrupted you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u265	All right, Mr. President. In the list of companies that have sent transfers to Mr GTANKERS's GTANKERS, company entities that have not only participated and have been involved, but have been convicted of "NOOR 1". These companies include companies of interest to ExPRESS ENERGY and Evangelos Bajractaris, a lawyer of MARATHON CARRIERS. A conclusion is reached here as to whether the Minister of National Defence really had reason to intervene. Telegraphically, because my time is running out, I want to refer to the eight deaths. On September 26, the nineteenth-year-old Zidasti - the daughter of a Turkish businessman - and her drivers are murdered. On December 12, 2014, two dead, probably the killers of the girl and her driver. On 15 March Iranian Ahmet Chahid was murdered in a hotel in Constantinople. He had escaped when they got caught in Coroppi. In August 2015, Serhan Pascal, from the brains of trafficking, according to Greek justice, feels unwell and goes out to the Red Cross. Death from the heart. He was only forty years old. On 15 April 2016, a second detainee, the thirty-two-year-old Indian Kumand, also has a heart attack and ends in the “January” ID. Eighth is an Iranian, who on May 4, 2016, with seven shots "rearing" in Dubai. I don't have time. I could say more. However, I shall put it before you for the Minutes. I would like to say, however, that this is what is of interest to the Civic Opposition? If the Minister of National Defence counseled Yannusakis, whose life was in danger, why was he working with some of the people who were murdered? Is that interested or that eight people died like dogs and two tons and a hundred 50 pounds of heroin kill people? I repeat: the Minister of National Defence did not catch any judges. He did the self-evident thing everyone would do. He said to a prisoner: "Yes, we guarantee your life, do what you think." These testimonials about Synchorkis have been made by Giannousakis. He may be an unreliable witness, but all the complaints he made were proved by papers and documents, which I submit in the Minutes. [[At this point the Member, Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u266	Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Pafilis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u267	This is the angelic world and this is the right system that you all defend: capitalism. He's got a name. These are indeed dramatic and tragic, but they arouse in all cases that occasionally and for various reasons find the light of publicity. Really, can't the drug-trafficking system hit? I'm starting with them. Can't the almighty system, which can bomb fleas with such precision, catch the drug trade coming from different countries? He doesn't know where he's produced, nor does he know who's carrying it? Who's carrying it? Workers? Who? The microprofessionals? The farmers? Who have the means to carry it? Don't you know all this system? Of course he does. Doesn't he know the traffic many times? This is where ordinary people know her. Why don't he beat her and beat her? I want to say one more thing. About the hippies movement, which started as it began, the CIA revealed after many years that it threw them into drugs. They wrote it themselves. They were thrown into drugs themselves, with a job, with a business, because from one point to the next, when the rival awe, the various people began to publish books to make some money. Well, that's sharp. This is the world, which is not angelic. He's barbaric, he's unfair, he's exploited, he's hesitant at nothing, because one's the pursuit and one's motive: It's the profit. So let's go to the exams too. You know, because you're talking a lot about investment and New Democracy is fighting with PASOK about who's gonna bring most of it, it looks like what you're doing is investing in the committees of inquiry. This will have become an industry that leads, supposedly, to great controversy. There are problems. We do not say that there are no problems. What for? To disorientate the world. To hide, as far as possible, strategic confrontation. You know, because there is a great deal of experience now in our country - we are primarily addressing the people - the more strategically converging the confrontation among the individual, who are not only to hide but who will best manage this system. So there is a disorientation of the world to hide the strategic shocks. What are you yelling at? Well, you're all agreed to. This is a competition. Here the Prime Minister advertises the companies that have another character, as if they were not based on the exploitation of workers. You have also adopted what the New Democracy and the New Democracy have said here - I have said it before - is left to unemployment with all this policy. A third theme - and this is the greatest service offered by SYRIZA and even offered it generously in previous years - is to hide the causes of this barbarism, which people live in misery, stress, anxiety. What are you telling him? You say: 'It is because of this Minister that it is the folk.' Of course there are the ribbles. It is an element of the system itself. That's how the machine works. But is that the main reason why they were stolen? You are isolating yourself to hide that they are all intertwined with the system itself and you have cultivated the idea that there is philosophical management of capitalism, but the reality itself disproves it. Political controversy has a long history of faces. Not that they have no responsibility for the faces and the ministers. They have huge responsibilities. It's to hide the whole system. Do You Remember? You said 'Let Arsenis resign'. And if Arseni resigned, another would come and do the same in education. You said 'Let Giannakou resign'. I'm talking about SYRIZA's. The same from the New Democracy now. Not that Mr. Kurublis has no responsibilities. He's got huge responsibilities. But if he resigns, will the laws change? Will they stop giving navigation certificates to the rotors? Of course not. They won't stop. The privatization of the classification society, which began in the 1990s, is now being completed by the Prime Minister. That's it! That's how it was with the planes. You pay and he gets your certificate. Will the legislation that protects all those who do smuggling and all the rest change in total? Of course not with a resignation of a minister, but with a overthrow of the system itself. Also, since we are talking about this case, because both the Secretary-General of our party and our rapporteur, Yiannis Delis, have mentioned the fact that here we are dealing with - and it is nothing strange, nor is it new - with a war of strong business interests that claim market shares and not only here, but also in general, with international implications. In this war of interests, beyond all else, they also take place in all urban parties, either with one part or with the other, or they may change in order to make various agreements. They've proven that, too. Of course, this war of interests sometimes makes laundry in the forum. How did SIEMENS come out? Who took it off? The conflict with the Americans came to an end. They went to the American stock market, checked them out and went out internationally. They made a deal, and then everything got cozy. Really, where are all those SYRIZA Government proclamations now? Well, the others covered up. How about you? Where is it that you'd cancel the deal? Big talk. The opposite is true. I think that Mr Tsakalotos - if I am not mistaken - has made advertising to her, that he is offering this programme and one another. I heard it on TV somewhere. Finally, because my time is over, the fate of the examinations is well known. We don't have any illusions. This is nine hundred hours of meeting work for ‘SIEMENS’ and what came out? Two people came out, who were well-known. And one has even been misled. And if some "Iphigenia" comes out, there are system security folds and they close them all. We're the ones to clear up our position. We do not agree with the New Democracy thinking. We always vote in favour of the committees of inquiry, unless it is a matter of major political issues, which are not a matter of committees of inquiry, but a matter of policy. For example, you said - now, I don't know, retired and adopted - that the New Democracy and the PASOK should be examined for the memorandums. But what were the memos, a conspiracy product? Or did some people take them and make the memorial? It was the needs of capital, the capitalist system in crisis, all these capitalist restructurings, to break the world to create favourable conditions and overcome as painlessly as possible for capital the crisis. And in the period of recovery you come - which you have offered all of them ready - and you advertise that Greece has - it says - the best conditions in terms of work, while they are slaves. That's a galera. That was the Memorandum. You're going to do an examination on that, then? Did anyone do it with a conspiracy? Didn't that happen in the entire capitalist world? In this sense the system itself is acquitted. Nevertheless - apart from what I have said - we always vote firmly to be a committee of inquiry. We don't have any delusions. We're trying as hard as we can. And we don't have access to the bourgeois and government parties. Finally, let us stop this with justice. I'll get you the minutes next time to see what you said when the New Democracy was government. This package was taken by the New Democracy and it says about you: 'interferences in justice, a party state'. Really, is justice independent? What independent justice are we talking about in such a system? Aren't you supposed to apply laws? Are the laws independent? What interests do they serve? Are they not serving the interests of the sovereign class of capital? All your laws for whom are they, for the worker, for the people? Don't go on. It's fifty-seven tax exemptions. Would you change them? Then what are you yelling at? So now we have the same from the New Democracy side to SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u268	Mr. Palphie, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u269	I'm done. Second, who appoints justice? When New Democracy was a government, you said the same, that the government appoints its own. Now, then, with the new choices New Democracy says the same about you. Why don't you go to another proposal - we're not saying things will be overthrown - where the lead of justice is elected by a larger body? And talk about it. Do it now that SYRIZA, who's been yelling for so long. Why don't you do that? Why does it not open up a debate on what will happen, put forward some proposals? We have no illusion that justice will become 'just' because the laws you make are called upon to be implemented by the judges. Others show exaggerated zeal. There are bright exceptions that go against. But this hypocrisy, I think people are getting their asses. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u270	Mr Dimitrios Kavalellas has the floor from the Centroon Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u271	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it does not have to be very experienced to understand that this is all a New Democracy game with a view to breaking up government cohesion, in the absence of a persuasive opposition. The Chief of the New Democracy is in a hurry to rule. We're central. We represent measure and logic. We must be fair and do not strike underneath the belt. We have - and we are - consistently severely criticised in co-government. We believe that, like the previous ones, it is a failed government. But we do not intend to play this game. And we want to have serious data so that we can vote unaffected by whispers. We must have evidence and not assumptions that the Minister has used the power given to him by our democracy in order to influence the apology of a prisoner, which is indeed a serious crime. So the New Democracy blames the Minister for anti-institutional games, but it itself is being arrested in the past by stealing opaque and you know what I mean, if not we'll see you later. So in the conscience of the Greek people this attitude seems to be an opportunityal and vengeful one. I will ask with respect Mr Mitsotakis to explain what he once heard about 'SIEMENS', because I do not know any Greeks who have forgotten him and did not go to ask to pay what he had to pay. I would like to say that it serves both the vindicators of power, and the New Democracy and SYRIZA, because they are plundering the climate and, as far as the elections are approaching, the tone will rise. I did not expect the New Democracy to end up in populism. Usually populism was left-wing, showered, blocked by such things. So the New Democracy condemns in a populist way a visit to the casino, which may have been broken by a hundred pounds, or if the car that was on the way was Jaguar, which today sells two and three thousand euros. I see that there is a lack of political speech, which is why they are resorting to populism. Let us now go to the point, i.e. whether it was right for the Minister to speak with a prisoner. If we take the simplest case, simple conversation is not a crime in itself, i.e. criminally interesting behaviour. In Greece of 2017, where we have democracy, everyone can speak with everyone. But, of course, there is a problem for politicians. In any case, the Minister of National Defence claims to have encouraged a person who has been convicted, convicted, told the truth and present evidence that, although he knows it, he is afraid to testify to them, that is to say, he claims to have encouraged someone who says he is aware of justice and criminal events to testify without fear. Of course, the politician, the MP, the Minister has a right and an obligation, I would say, to learn the truth from anyone for the benefit of the Greek people to speak yet - I would say schematically - and with the devil. But here, as far as we all know, this is a conflict of business. Mr Kammenos's act could be characterised by some of the Greek people as legal, by another as unconventional, by another portion of anti-institutional and felony. That is why Mr Kammenos has an obligation to ask himself for the incident to be investigated so that there is no shadow. The interest of co-government, but also of our democracy, is to throw light on events. Home we need to be united as ever, while external enemies look at, when Greek citizens kill themselves because of the election policy of PASOK and the New Democracy that threw the ship on the rocks and because of the inability of SYRIZA - ANEL to do what it promised. So we cannot trust a government where the Prime Minister is being deceived and the ministers make parallel mistakes, such as Mr Kammenos or Mr Kurublis. Not even an Opposition that has set the purpose of hunting power by the method of ripe fruit. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] One minute more, Mr President, I will not abuse your time. So New Democracy, as a pure virgin, now, is coming out of the swimming pool of Siloam to raise an issue of underground consultation. But something the New Democracy probably knows from underground contacts and suspects everyone, because they still smell rotten tapes from Mr. Cassidy's tapes with Mr. Baltaco. In closing, we do not claim that Mr. Kammenos is guilty or is innocent. The case needs to be investigated, because there are dark spots, some transfers of judges, some pressures to name and show faces, use of mobile phones through prison, but of course the purpose justifies the means. We are counting on Mr Kammenos to ask himself for a committee of inquiry, since he claims he has nothing to hide. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u272	The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Spyridon Lappas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u273	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I get to the essence of the matter, which is being discussed today in plenary, I shall make two comments: Firstly, it honors the political system, honours Parliament, honours our status as MPs, representatives of the Greek people, the phrases of Mr Georgiadi's words, that we are 'humans','spokens', 'roots', 'roots', 'boats' and I don't know what else he said. He wants to tell us, in other words, by systematically superseding that Kammenus or anyone else does something that he does not think is right. And I know that this style, which also hides a political ethos in the style, that phrase, this rhetoric, does not agree with all the Members of the New Democracy. I am absolutely sure of that. So I say it and point it out, because it is done on a systematic basis. I don't want to put the charges back on him. We are simply stressing this in order for the Greek people to understand who are knocking on the door of power, in the sense that they want to rule it and what political ethos is hiding under the political style. Many colleagues from the other parties said 'what is different today's proposal to set up an examination of the examinations already carried out and have taken their findings or the one that is now being done, such as the one on the health scandal?' I will first speak as a lawman, not as a parliamentarian, and the lawyers will understand it at least. Listen to see, the House to set up a committee of inquiry must explore phenomena which have to do with a set of structures, services and ministries, with an indefinite number of people and a very important issue, which concerns a sector of state, a sector of public administration. Here's what the New Democracy proposal says. She's completely personalized to a person, Mr. Kammenos's phone calls. What scandal are you talking about? What's it about? Is this a matter of concern to the Minister of National Defence for his phone calls with the isovite? Because that's where your proposal stops. Explore what and why? Is it related to the media scandals of the'ministers' that cost 1,5 billion or the loan scandal of the parties that have reached half a billion? This is a phenomenon relating to the path of the political system and it is up to the House to decide to set up such committees. Now what are we gonna talk about? What are we going to consider? What if the Minister of National Defence called the isovite? We'll see if the isovite has contacted the Minister of National Defence, as the journalist at least announces. Therefore, we cannot set up a committee of inquiry into individual cases of investigation. They must be generally, universally speaking, and relate to a number of individuals and structures. One of this. Has your proposal anything to do with health scandals? When we were discussing the committee's recommendation on scandals in health, there was no political party to disagree on the amount of black money. The start and end of the debate and confrontation was that black money, which relates to the health scandal, is 85 billion. Do you have anything like that to come forward or argue or suggest that a size like this will arise if we are to investigate today the call of the Minister of National Defence to the isovite? I don't think so. That's what I wanted to say as a preamble. Finally, with Mr Georgiadis. I heard Mr Loverdos here, who congratulated us, because we changed Europe, wanting to report on Germany's election results. I would say to him that if this is his political analysis after so many years of political involvement, then we congratulate him twice. Well done, Mr. Loverdos, that's the right analysis, that's what you're doing! However, I will end on a second point from what Mr Loverd has said, of course, beyond how he analyses the political situation in Europe and Greece in such a way: we are responsible for not changing Europe. There was a threat. He said: political and criminal responsibilities will be sought in the new parliament, Mr Tsipras, Mr Kammenos and gentlemen of SYRIZA. Threatly straight. So, what's that supposed to say? That if Mr. Loverdos in the new government is Minister, the first thing he will do is set up a committee of inquiry to ask for criminal responsibilities of the Prime Minister, the Ministers, the MPs, etc. Mr. Loverdo, I don't know if you're listening, but I'll tell you a few things. Instead of putting out direct threats to us in all the institutions and Parliament and the Government and the political system, you can answer us the following questions: Was it your party that devalued and bankrupt the political system as a whole in Greece or not? Have you experienced feelings of unreliability and decline in your own parties who have ruled the country and have spread a gray veil of deportation and decline to Greek society, reaching the credibility of the political system and of the people of the country, of Ministers and MPs, over the last forty years? Who's responsible for all this? Give us an answer. Thirdly, colleagues of the man you had a Prime Minister, six of the seven, checked or controlled for serious felony acts. In addition to one, Nikos Themelis, all the others were checked or checked. Is that why you have an answer to see how much responsibility and how much "human" are we of SYRIZA? Fourthly, have you bankrupt your party itself, which owes 220 million and have since autumn 2011 paid even 1 euros? You told us that you, as a party and even for acts and omissions of your own officials, decided unanimously in Parliament to set up a committee. And after that, what did you do? You were coming in to the committees and pretended to be the defender of what the House decided to do as indulging and controlled. Let someone look at the minutes of the Committee on SME and party loans to see your questions, your speeches and the way you functioned. Did you work in favour of Parliament's decision, or for the protection of controlled and accused persons? Fifthly, did you sign up for your very title, gentlemen of the Democratic Consensus, as the Central Left in respect of the Centre, but mainly in terms of the second component, that of the Left? Did you permanently and through life in this country? Will you dare go and talk about the Left as the Central Left? Is that why you don't have responsibilities? For all this, then, blame yourself, since you look well in the mirror, if you have a mirror, and not the SYRIZA MPs. Let me say something else about the SYRIZA MPs. We have an honor to be in the Greek Parliament. In the previous saying - at the limit of the debate, I would say - Mr Mitsotakis that a few days are our days and we will return to our homes, that there is our role, and I say that we will not go back to our homes, Mr Mitsotakis, to our jobs, which we have been struggling for years, for decades and decades, for society, each one of his profession and his science. We're not going home and you know it! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Now let's go to the subject we're talking about. What have you not understood, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy? Two things. I am thinking above all of the lawyers. On 6 July you tabled your proposal to set up a committee of inquiry. Then there was no judicial judgment or any decision of any judicial officer. I'd say you have, bro, a suspicion that something might have happened. Because Mr. Kefaloyannis just filed himself with the prosecutor's conclusion, I did not intend to deal with it, but I have the right now to invoke what he has decided. Listen. I have noted, reading the findings invoked by Mr Kefaliannis and already made a public document, which is terrible and horrific, to understand whether it is based, the least basis, legal, political, logic of your proposal: Firstly, the prosecutor, Mrs Jiva, did not take part in any unlawful activity with an incentive to target Marinaki. Secondly, Giannousakis himself has given an opportunity to engage his name Marinakis in the case of "NOOR 1", as well as presenting himself to the court and before interrogation here. Thirdly, the competent prosecutors of Giannousaki's three depositors - the Minister of National Defence on his own initiative on 26 June - presented them on 26 June. Nobody pushed him. No one intimidated him. He went and made three statements, and there he involved Marinakis in smuggling fuel and as a possible suspect in the issue of "NOOR 1". No one else. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Fourthly, the finding mentions - I would not have invoked it, but Mr. Kefaloyannis presented it and made it a public document, and I read it now and I have received these conclusions - in what happened on the evening of July 17, 2017, when the prosecutor Mrs. Giannousakis visited Giannousakis in prison. Why do you think? The conclusion says "because the isovite urgently wanted the Ms. Prosecutor to come and testify to her, because he was afraid of his life and the life of the members of his family." Mr. Tendia, where you will then come to speak, take that as a given. It's part of the D.A.'s finding. So here's why the D.A. had to go quickly, because he deserved it. Fifth, the conclusion itself points out that when Giannousakis was called before him to support the allegations of extortion by the prosecutor, he says to Mr. Brakoumacos: “No kind of blackmail was carried out to me.” Seventhly, she stresses that the Prosecutor of Peace Diva had contacted before going to jail, with the Ice Arrow's Attorney and informed her after leaving prison, saying that he eventually refused to testify. Eighth, the finding describes all the isobite's renaissances. He points out - he says the conclusion - to prove that he cooperates with the authorities in order to reveal others involved in the case of "NOOR 1". He spontaneously mentioned before the court - he refers to the minutes of the First Chamber - where he had spoken and had filed a bank exam of Mr Marinakis's company. So, ladies and gentlemen, who incriminates alpha or beta businessman? The government? The Minister of National Defence? Any SYRIZA executive? An administrative agent? Isabite himself. Ninth, for the formation of a gang at the expense of Mr. Marinakis by Christoforides, Father and Melissanidis was not proved and it is completely unfounded. So, what do you have in front of you now? You have a conclusion that of the three main issues, the three facts - the first one is the call of Giannousakis, the second visit of the prosecutor to prison and the third is the involvement of Christoforides - the first and second is judged by this finding. We'll see if anything's different. So it's finally irrevocable and finalist. One last, with regard to the investigating officer, Mr. Christoforides, has been ordered by the prosecutor to be investigated by the Naval Court. Why are you questioning the government? That he didn't do what? Which direction did he not do anything good? Mr President, I shall say something about the substance and I shall conclude. In any case, what do you blame a political person who encourages a isovite to give evidence of further research into a very serious case, not only in a pan-Hellenic but also in a pan-European dimension? What do you see? You are talking about intervention and manipulation of justice. This decision of the Attorney's Attorney, Brakumatsu, do you think it's the result of manipulation? If you're insinuating this, say it here publicly, if you dare. Say this finding is not a product of free judicial conviction and crisis, but it is a product of extortion, threat or pressure. Say it so the judges can understand what this is all about. As far as matters of legal interest are concerned, it is the case of the investigating officer and the prison case. Both themes have been informed by the Minister responsible for Justice that they are being investigated by justice. What do you want the political system to do, or the Minister responsible or the government? To interfere with what justice is investigating? What, then, is lacking in this case that makes this whole scenario of your proposal? Nothing at all. Everything is normally investigated according to the law and the Constitution. I shall close by saying one last, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u274	Mr. Lappa, this is the fifth time you've said it's the last thing you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u275	I'm done, Mr. President. It would be a failure not to say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u276	Now that's really the last thing!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u277	I'm done, Mr. President. Because I consider this finding to be a bold conclusion by the prosecutor, it would be negligent if I did not stress that it is a real proof of judicial independence and boldness. I would like to mention two words that Sarzetakis once said in the 1980s, as President of the Republic, about bold judges: "It is a primary case of opinion, that is to say, expelled from the soul of the judiciary and associated with his personal dignity, with a message of insanity as an expression of moral courage, of this courage that has as an inevitable price the harassment and thus the uprising of the horrors, the petty and the insensitive ones who are coalition and ugly, fearing and counter-attacking. This courage, the difficult and valuable, is for the minister of justice the virtue sine qua non. Today we are talking about the perfect good of justice, which is really this good, its award, the summum bonus. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u278	Before giving the floor to the last speaker, who is Mr Psarianos, Mr Vitsas, the Deputy Minister of National Defence for a minute, asked for the floor. Here you go, Mr. Vitsa, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u279	Thank you, Mr President. When I asked the President, he asked me whether I would talk about the four reports that Mr Georgiadis made in my name and I said no to him and I will not talk about it. I think so too - and I imagine - and Thodoris and Christos Mantas, mentioned by their names, part of the performance. So we have a different political concept of how to make politics and how to debate it. Why should I refer to this thing? I would like to inform the House, because things are also being discussed outside the debate on the committee of inquiry, which has now turned into a committee of inquiry. So I want to say this...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u280	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u281	I'm saying why I want to let you know. The air base of Araxos has been under Greek command for many years. After the period of dictatorship, there are no nuclear weapons on the Araxos air base, there is no plan or plan or has anything to do with anything - one of the American special interests would say. So that's clean. Right now that we're talking about and tomorrow there's an American technician in Araxos, who's dealing with the F16 that's gone off the runway and has been destroyed, and that's why they're there and then they're going to see a F16 that's destroyed a piece of it in Souda. I want it to be clean, I want it to be known, as I want it to be known that from that old base, we are talking about 1967-1974, it has remained an inactive antenna, that is, it has left its shell, which is not moving because of costs. Once we have the ability to do it, we'll move it. I would like to say that the bad will be that 2020 will not only see SYRIZA Members in Parliament. You'll see SYRIZA Ministers, not us, some others.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u282	Mr. Psariano has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u283	Mr President, on personal grounds I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u284	Sit down. Mr. Psarian is the last... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Will you be quiet? Please. Please. After Mr Psarianos, who is the last speaker on the list, the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy will take the floor, Mr Dendias, and then the Prime Minister or Mr Kammenos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u285	Would you give me a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u286	Please, I didn't give you the floor. Mr. Fisherman, start.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u287	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you very much for the old comrades and some strangers who are here who happened to be here and watch me carefully. There is no problem for me and for us that we want something new in this country, we want it to be a normal European country and to stop being a 'cassadian'. I've said it before. There is no problem with the "Kourables", the "Kurumbles", the "Pangulous" from various parts of the old political system that have ruled this country and now they are condemned by the governments to which they have participated and participated in a government of unprecedented cooperation left overright, between spray and revolution, with too many contradictions: we are with Olad and against Oland. We're with Amon and Melanson, and we're with McCron after all. We can support Merkel and Schultz and Die Linke, we have no problem. We're with Madour and the romadur. We're also with the smugglers and their persecutors. We're also with the publishers and the promoters. We are also with groups and against interests. We're slaughtering everything. We're stabbing it all. We don't have a problem. And we have no problem because we have to exercise power in the interests of the people. We serve the people, we are servants of the people. And since we had been told by others, I asked a current minister and a former minister, my old companion, and I said to him: “How do you stand this thing? Instead of doing five things that the people gave you the opportunity to change this country, how do you do these things that you do and tolerate them and those you tolerate and make them a garrison? Make gargards with oil, with tar, with smuggling, roulettes, with hotels, with "MANDARIN", with Jaguar, with transatlantic flights, with contacts in Texas, with big sharks of capital in the metropolitan city of international capitalism and imperialism, in Texas, Massachusetts, Arizona! How do you manage and do all this?" And I was told by the former and by the current minister: 'Why did the others not?' Yeah, but you're not the others. You guys got out because you're others. That is what you promised, that you are not "the others", that you are, that you are us, say! Mr. Kammenos, wanting with this left-wing government to control media, newspapers, magazines, televisions, radios, celebrated inside the plane while closing a historic newspaper, and made a gesture as a "eulogy" somehow, beating the newspaper's sheet that closed that day. Because we have opened up new newspapers, "slapping" new majestics, left-wing, to the people's interests, to get channels, newspapers, to hide cigarette ships, to sink smuggle ships, to send for oil smuggling a smuggling ship and this case to be controlled by Mr. Christofordis, for whom my old companion, Nektarios, said that no investigation has been launched in the case of "NOOR 1". And since no control and no investigation have been launched, we now assigned him to do the new investigation into smuggling for the ship that went to export the oil and already carried smuggling. We have made these gestures of "fellowship", we have sent to the nets the birds' ties - but we have not put them in our little child's hands - we have a line with nationalist crowns against the left government, for Macedonian, for homosexuals, for human rights, for immigrants, we have these heroic flights in variation suits - marines are, after all, marines! - and we have these talks with the isovites that are absolutely institutional. There is no question: at any time and having all the isoviators' phones, we can share them with the ministers and the MPs, we can call them, we can tell them to strengthen justice, damn it. I mean, not rotting in prisons like that, without having a hand helping justice. It's too bad! So I'm tearing just thinking about it. And this function is absolutely institutional. The Minister of Justice told us, and the State Secretary for Justice and the Deputys and all. And you're doing all this, big hawks, because you have to run out for four years - I wish you so! - and not one, two months later, i.e. as long as the Constitution provides for, as long as you can - and may take a delay and a penalty - to go a little further, that is, to complete this left-hand transformation of our society. It's too bad to leave him in the middle! [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over, Mr Nikolaos BOUTSIS]] I'm very moved, comrades! I'm deeply moved. And I want to say to you "we are going together", that is, one of our partners says that Andreas was the leader of November 17 and of PASOK, and the other tries to imitate Andreas and make the breaks after the reporter, just like Andreas did. We've read many hours of videos and now we're trying to gather from the Central Left and from the Central Right and from the "Centre" of course, of all things. And we're making all the rest of it happier, because in the interests of the people, we have to complete the progressive transformation of the country, Mr. Gaki, you're laughing, my old comrade Roditis. And you don't remember what we were talking about. And what you were saying, we remember them. Some people remember them and they're ashamed, but they're hiding.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u288	Mr. Fisherman, please, get it over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u289	And they're for me - how can I tell you? - the saddest cases. There's something else I don't count on them, which might be up with the crabs against the Skouries and then play it loosely. You know what's going on?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u290	Mr. Fisherman, it's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u291	Yeah. I do not have any problem with the 'Chattered' and the'sprayed' and 'Crubbles'. I never had one, I don't have one now. You can do as many sticks as you want. And with a part of the other right you can also make various lavatories. I have no problem with this. I have a problem with whether the people who listen to us are beginning to understand. Honestly, I'm not sure. I have no doubt that you are confronted, because 'likely to be praised', and because our children, who have voted for us and now appoint themselves, are improving. Attica pension.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u292	Mr. Comrade, you're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u293	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u294	Don't repeat yourself, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u295	I've never told that proverb before. It's not a repetition.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u296	No, you've told her in other words.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u297	I want to close with a verse of the Savvopoulos Dionysis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u298	Shut up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u299	I want to close with one verse for you, my old comrades, who says: "Now, gypsy monkey, there's no end to this festivities. Give me another hand. Thank you."
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u300	Good. Please, be quiet! We've heard it all. The Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy Mr Nikolaos Dendias has the floor. Here, Mr. Dendia, you have the floor for five minutes with a slight tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u301	Mr President, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, if I understood well from the analysis of the majority rapporteur, Professor Paradise, as well as from the statements made by the Minister of Justice, but also from the parliamentary representative Mr Lappas, what has happened and what the National Representation is discussing is simply because of strange, irrationalities of the Officership and of the other parties. If I understood correctly, in a country - a member of the European Union, it is self-evident part of the institutional framework that a minister, any minister, in this case of the Minister of National Defence, should maintain a telephone conference with a barbecue, who illegally has a mobile in prison, should choose with him to prevent him from doing something, to help, to engage in investigational work and all of this being part of a normal functioning of the legal order. If I understood correctly, that is what the government's majority is claiming. Indeed, Professor Paradise in the Committee on Institutions and Transparency went further. He also found a specific article. I am told - I have not heard you, Professor, and I think it is a loss for my legal training - that you have invoked Article 28 of Law 4139/2013 as a reinforcement of the position of the legitimate conduct of the Minister of National Defence, that he acted as an appointed body. Ladies and gentlemen, of course you will not know what this article refers to. I'll tell you. He's in the narcotics law. It's about the people the police send in to trap in the drug market. This article invokes to legalise the conduct of the Minister of National Defence. I understand, ladies and gentlemen, that a fairy tale must be created here so that you can withstand what you are calling on to do, vote against setting up a committee of inquiry, a fairy tale which, by its naive, childish appearance, presents to the Minister of National Defence something like Batman in Gotham City: the good person who fights evil in all his appearances, evil as an enemy of national security, evil as a crime, evil as a drug dealer. Wherever bad, there's the Minister of National Defence with his uniform to fight it, beat it, fight it! And it is the most'soft' approach, the legal approach, which is called and defended by a university professor, legal science, a Minister of Justice, a major state guard, a Deputy Minister of Justice and a lawyer parliamentary representative, apart from all the other colleagues who claim that in a modern state, with the legal culture of a European country, there is absolutely no obstacle to a minister speaking with a barbecue in prisons, who illegally owns a mobile phone. All these are things perfectly reasonable, comprehensible, European, praiseworthy, modern, honest, moral, brave! That this is how countries are commanded in the twenty-first century! That this is what Greek society was expecting! That that's why he brought you to power, to make these nice, honest things, to fight the drug trade! Well done, ladies! I beg your pardon, but what you say and which you are supporting is not a serious approach. There is no need to sit down and discuss with you either the many phones or their duration or what a prosecutor was going to do there, while there was a prosecutor for the prisons, or whether there is a moral automobile. All of this goes away. A serious man wouldn't be dealing with this for a second. He was gonna take it to the band. One thing is simply being asked to understand, under two institutional manifestations: First, a committee of inquiry: Please answer whether it is the majority or the minority. I foresee that what you say, namely that it is only the right of the parliamentary majority, is contrary to the substance of the institution. The Committee of Inquiry is not that. It is a right of parliamentary control and, as Mr Javarras has quite rightly explained, it is a right of opposition, as our rapporteurs have said. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like a second more. You must accept, if you have an elementary democratic conscience - I am not talking about seriousness, I am referring to the first part of the position - that you accept the establishment of the committee of inquiry, regardless of whether you agree or disagree with the spirit of the proposal with which it is presented. The second to which you are finally calling, ladies and gentlemen, is the issue of the separation of powers. If you accept the possibility that the Minister of National Defence, any Minister of State, of intervention in justice, will in fact completely destroy the institutional framework not only of our legal culture, but also of the way in which the system operates. I conclude by telling you this: there has been quite a lot of discussion internationally. There's a book - if you'd like, bother reading it - of the Agendaglou and Robinson about why the states are falling apart. It refers to their institutional collapse. The institutional collapse of a state is what first and foremost creates the decline. What you have done these years is a country's push not towards an exit from the crisis, but towards a total institutional collapse. What you are supporting here today is indeed a front in the institutional collapse of a state which cannot, ladies and gentlemen, be termed 'European' by such decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u302	Thank you. Mr. Friday, do you want to say something?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u303	Mr President, Mr Dendias referred to me personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u304	No, it's not personal. There was no personal issue. They are in their views.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u305	I can take the floor later. But at some point I have to do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u306	Here, you have the floor for half a minute, if you want, to repack something.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u307	Thank you, Mr President. The provision to which Mr Denktash refers and to which I have referred, has been correctly said by him, quite rightly. That's the law. And it's not just Article 27 of the Narcotics Act, it's also the Criminal Procedure that says the same thing...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u308	Article 28.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u309	This mistake, Mr. Treasury, is not important, is it? You understand what this is all about.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u310	No, it's just one more mistake.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u311	The Code of Criminal Procedure refers to it in some 253A, so does the International Convention on Organised Crime and the Convention on Terrorism. These are the main tools of the legal order, in order to combat organised crime, which says "In order to hit the big crime, a small pit can also be justified."
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u312	You referred to this in the morning in detail.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u313	Mr President, could I have the floor too?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u314	Here, Mr Tindemans, you have the floor to resolve the legal issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u315	Mr President, I would like to ask you one thing to understand, because the law here is beyond me, and I think it has also been made clear from my position, but also from the position of the Minister. Does the government majority invoke a provision on the trapping of drug sales for the behaviour of the Minister of National Defence? Does that invoke as a monetary element? So did the police, then obviously the prosecutor's office, send Mr. Kammenos to trap a drug dealer? Is this the scenario that the majority is now called upon to defend? I'm asking you to understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u316	Thank you. Since the morning the debate has evolved, and everyone has understood what they have to understand. I invite Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras to step in. Here, Mr. Tsipras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u317	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, not only today's sitting - because I did not have time to attend it and have been informed by my colleagues - but also the way in which you are opposition to the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki, but also before, your study throughout the entire period that has focused on the narrative of parentheses, the account of the inability to complete the evaluation, the accelerating of the elections, and later the way in which, in every event, you are constantly demanding the resignations of Ministers - I have counted over fifteen requests for the resignations of Ministers since we took over the government - I have the feeling that if I judged solely on criteria of electoral purposes, I would very much admit that the New Democracy of Mr Mitsotakis offers us the opposition of our dreams. This is an anti-government that every government would like to have, in an extreme political speech, which constantly moves to the limits of paresis, without a strategy, in a line which dictates many times the publishing bands and newspaper headlines, with positions that do not hide the anti-social fabric of the leadership group and with constant personal assassination attacks of characters, for which I would say that they only remove from the credibility and seriousness of a party and a faction that for years, despite the disagreements we have had, no one could but admit that it was operating in terms of public interest, such as from its perspective, the conservative viewpoint, that this public interest was determined. But today, as if you'd like to prove to us that you don't even care. You do not even care, even if the average citizen realizes that the way you are dealing with is also about serving specific interests and business plans. Of course, if I were to think exclusively - I repeat - on the basis of electoral feasibility, that what is happening is extremely good for us, but I think it is not good for the political system in the end. You do not offer good services at the place, especially when this place is afflicted after seven years of crisis, where citizens' confidence in institutions has been broken and where the credibility of the political system, parties and institutions has been severely affected. There are countless times this year and a half, when Mr. Mitsotakis is Chief of Police and has fallen into unprecedented moral and political difficulties. It gives the feeling that he's suffering from deprivation syndrome, power deprivation syndrome. From there, too, stress arises so that at all costs to the country, the economy and the citizens themselves, they can return to the positions of the government as soon as possible. The case you have brought us here today - for three months, of course, you have asked for this committee of inquiry - to be set up - is just another incident, yet another symptom, if you wish, of this disastrous and self-destructive policy. In your attempt to squeeze suspicions, however, to discover supposedly great scandals where there are no ones, to create impressions, it seems that you have fallen into yet another fatal mistake. You are identified with entrepreneurial and publishing interests, in a way that doesn't fit the history of your extradition. Do you blame a minister of today's government for doing exactly what? That he spoke to a convict, who rushed to find him, to contact him to raise a matter of common criminal crime. And you blame him for doing what? He referred him to justice for the proper things. Three months now, when you constantly recycle this accusation, I do not know exactly what your problem is with it, by referring him to justice. Is that a problem that referred him to justice? Do you want anything to keep hidden from justice? However, I think the most interesting thing I have had a moment ago when, in the light of my speech today, I wanted to read out the proposal that you tabled to set up the Committee of Inquiry. In this proposal, you write - I am not saying it - that Mr Kammenos and the government are therefore targeting a businessman, not much, in order to politically eliminate Mr Mitsotakis. In fact, this confession is a little bizarre. Why should the Qualifying Opposition confess to its proposal in such a clear way that - even if I may say so, would I accept your argument completely, that we want to target, as a businessman says - the targeting of a businessman politically destroys the Chief of Officer Anti-Population? Who is this intact bond that unites an entrepreneur, whoever he is, with the Chief of Police? [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] You say that in the text you've tabled, I'm not saying it. Therefore, you must answer that. And answer for something else. In this proposal you have tabled, you are often referring to the businessman, as if the businessman were anonymous, you are not telling us his name. Why? What are you afraid of? To clarify a few things, therefore, the businessman in question, whose name you are even avoiding, is well known to all of us, is Mr Marinakis. With regard to Mr Marinakis, like any entrepreneur who has pending cases with justice - and there are not few who have pending cases with justice - the work of the parties is neither to interfere nor to prejudge the decisions of justice, either guilt or innocence. So what is this zeal and this precursor on your part to show that the government is targeting this entrepreneur and the reason why he is targeting him is to politically eliminate Mr Mitsotakis? Ladies and gentlemen, the government has neither inhibited nor targeted Mr Marinakis, but only stoic and institutional, as he has to do, awaits the decisions of justice. Really, why are you speeding up? That's the question. Do you ultimately have no confidence in justice and judicial officers? Or is your sensations and your respect for justice a la cart? So we, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, do not make accusations or preconceive decisions. Others are those who daily make accusations and take news and infect the political life of the place with misery and hatred. And let the people who are watching us wonder why they are doing it. I, for my part, am not going to make any judgments on the cases dealt with by justice concerning this businessman or other entrepreneurs. They will be investigated, and justice will decide. And I wish - and I am quite frankly saying this - that this man should be innocent. However, it is your study to discount the results of the surveys that gives rise to questions. It looks very much like an intervention and influence operation of the judiciary. And that's what you know. It's dangerous. These are dangerous things about democracy, but dangerous things about you and Mr Mitsotakis personally. Because, when someone is unreservedly linked to specific entrepreneurs - and you are even confessing to your proposal that anyone who tries to hurt this businessman is trying to eliminate your Chief - then something very important is what unites you. In any case, these things are dangerous because at the end of the day you can be apologized. Because, you know, this case has been badly abused for three months now. You have had the misfortune at the previous sitting, a debate on the Committee of Inquiry should this earthquake happen. It's been a long time, there's been water in the groove and today this case is starting to turn boomerang to you. It's what we say "go for wool and you'll get bored" at the end, because it turns out you're the ones who do what you blame us for. You're telling us we're trying to control the press and the media. However, we are here, despite the constant and unprecedented attacks that we receive every day from the majority of the press and the media. Take a look at the hanged newspaper headlines. Is this a snitch for us? Three elections, did we not win two elections and a referendum, with almost all the means toward us then? [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Which press should we check? What's our prerogative to check out the press and why? You probably have this sarcasm because you're savage from morning to night, the press, the majority of it, and so, you're probably afraid to lose that support. And in a sense, I would say that every entrepreneur we have seen in recent times, at a time of crisis in the press, who are large publishing groups, with millions of debts, go bankrupt and that the previous ones who have smuggled you and supported you in this Chamber do not give a damn about the workers - perhaps even the new ones will see it - in a time of crisis, therefore, in the press, we see some people taking both one and three and four newspapers. The reason? To melt the Opposition and condemn the government. Let them have seven and seventeen headlines. The problem is theirs, it's not ours. We don't give a damn, I honestly tell you. And if you think that you are honoring you to come to this Chamber and illegally invoke talks and recordings, if you think that you are honoring to invoke personal life tracking and photographs to make opposition, if you consider that by acting as a para-state you are offering services to democracy, then I remain speechless, but it is the opposition that you have chosen and that fits not in your resignation, but in some new landlords who have now seen light and entered. You're really doing this to us, honestly, because you're not winning with them. With the lies and the attacks under the table you're doing harm to you and good to those you're attacking. As you did today - very good - to the Minister of Shipping, Mr. Kourublis, with the headlines of the site "parapolitika.gr" "fake news" which said that Kurublis was having a party at the nominal holiday party of the ship owner "Agia ZONI II", which leaked oil and we had this ecological disaster, pollution in Saronic. So if anyone had started to be suspicious of Kurubli all these days and not like him, with what those who support you make him a big gift. And the last citizen today will like Panagiotis Kourublis, with this kind of accusation. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Alexis Tsipras, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Choose, if you want, this tactic. It's your right. Select this tactic. To restore the truth, I would just say that it was the annual event of the Maritime Industry Association. The Minister must be there, and we also have the open letter of protest by the Pan-Hellenic Association of Officials of the Ministry of Trade Shipping for this incredible bulkyness of the media, which on the altar of propaganda, the anti-government propaganda, do not hesitate, do not hesitate at all. And I want to tell you one last thing, so we can close this case. You rushed to bring her before the House, accusing the Minister of Defence as a moral autocracy, without expecting the judgment of justice on the main offences. And for Mr. Kammenos, I'm catching up with you, the case-file has come to Parliament, because regular justice is not the responsibility. He's a minister. And what happened in the meantime? I'm not a lawyer, but ask your lawyers. For so-called natural perpetrators, the cases were filed. So what is the moral automobile of the Minister of Defence? Where did the crime go? In the file. So there's no offense. And without crime, obviously, there are no self-defenses, physics or morals. So, what are we really talking about here? Why did you call the Conference? Why are you asking us today for a committee of inquiry? I will tell you why we are here today and why we are talking about. We are talking about this because you have nothing more to say, because you are making an opposition, which is an opposition to fire and disaster, because everyone now understands that you are in a strategic deadlock. Instead of collapseing the economy, which you have been begging for almost a year and the country you predicted would go to the rocks and collapse and the evaluations will not be closed, your account collapsed. That is why we are here today. Because it collapsed the account of destructive, risky, destructive citizens. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Take a look at the sizes of the real economy, which for two years you have been telling us is falling apart and you will understand why you are now being criticised by the serious and conservative people. So look at the sizes. The Greek economy is moving firmly in the way out of the crisis. For the first time fundamental sizes have been recovered, foreign direct investment, exports, industrial production, retail trade and households' available income. Unemployment is falling month by month. We would like to see a higher rate, but it is reduced. Everything shows that the country is struggling, in a persuasive sense, with your own interests and those of those of this unfaithful opposition, with constant steps to get out of the memoranda, out of the programme and the Memorandum Commission. Debt is in settlement after the decision of 15 June. The country managed to have a successful exit on the markets. The international rating agencies are raising us with a positive outlook. Only today and officially came out of the European Commission's excessive deficit procedure, which we are from the years of the crisis, in 2009. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And, of course, a few hours ago, the President of the Eurogroup - for which some, not you, some fanatical fanatics of your paradox, did not say so to you, you said, "Geroon-weak", in order to resist the Greek Government - Gerun very strongly stated that the country is going to the clear exit from the memorials and that is a prospect of historical importance to the place. That's what you don't want to understand, you don't want to digest. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] So what's left of you now? You are left to feed or feed you with bitter and poisonous articles in the domestic press, but of course also to feed the international press with defamatory articles - but I would say no defamatory for the government, defamatory for the country - in order to prevent recovery. But I have told you from the beginning, you do not offer good services in the country. You do damage, but fortunately for the country the damage you can do is very small, because you cannot prevent the prescribed course of economic recovery any more. But it is not just that the record of the disaster collapsed the reason why you choose this kind of opposition and why we are here today. The reason I'd say it's even deeper. The reason is that you understand what some of your advisers are probably telling you, because it seems that your leadership does not have the full image of the Greek society, that is, that your political program, the shock program and awe that you are proposing for the Greek society cannot be done and will never be majority. Every time you speak honestly about your programme, every time you confess your political plans and your ideological perceptions, waves of stripes and shrimps cross the Greek people, but also many more of your own party. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Where to catch it and where to leave it. From the sanctification and vindication of social inequalities, which are supposedly natural phenomena? From the release of redundancies for civil servants? From your proposal to sell until we privatize the State General Accounting Office? From the classic of your evenings to the labour market? From your point of view about the need to demolition the public health system? From your point of view of the public school, for which your Chief was forced to make corrective statements afterwards? I would like to ask you one thing: continue so, do not hide your ideology, say what you think most often and without inhibitions. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Because, ladies and gentlemen, the ideology which the New Democracy of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and Adonidos Georgiadis is a mixture of policy that made Europe all over yesterday very much concerned, a mixture of FDP and AFD together, a mixture of FDPs, Mr Mitsotakis, the liberal and AFDs Mr Georgiadis of the extreme people's right. That's your ideology. This is the mixture of your policy. I wish you, therefore, to continue on the same road, because they are clearly visible, and the social interests you represent are evident. This is the way the vertical dividing line that cuts the political system into two is also seen. Because we did, through very great difficulties, have been forced and made very difficult decisions. However, we did everything we could to protect the social majority. We did everything possible and we do everything we can to alleviate the consequences of the crisis in the social body, with the primary health care system, the strengthening of public school and public university, the financing of research that in the years of fatal cows was in 0.5% and we went to 1% of GDP, i.e. 200 million in 2015 in conditions of budgetary suffocation, the social income of solidarity, without reductions in benefits, the strengthening of the negotiating power of workers, the draft law of the Ministry of Labour a few weeks ago that you voted against, the law on the out-of-court compromise which includes small businesses, which you voted against, the one-off provision of over-paid economy in 2015 to pensioners, the low-paid pensioners who denounced us in the institutions and then, of course, you have voted against many more than enough. It is therefore precisely this field, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, which you cannot oppose. It is precisely this area of policy that you want to avoid, and that is why we are here today, in a post-yearly confession, to a committee of inquiry which you do not believe anymore. And that is why you also force your MPs, according to this pathetic practice, to create diversions, to make charges, to make constructions, and ultimately - and this is the worst thing for the political system - to end up in the eyes of the Greek society as agents of personal strategic and business interests. If you wish to continue like this, do it. You're good for us, you're bad for you. Bad of your head. Keep it up. We will proceed as we think, as we know and as we can for the best of this country and not for the best of certain interests that we have chosen to support.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u318	Thank you very much. I invite the President of the Independent Greeks and the Minister of National Defence Mr Panagiotis Kammenos to take the final step. Here, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u319	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will be brief enough because I believe that what had to be said has been said by my fellow Members, by the ministers, by the Prime Minister himself and by fellow Members. It is useful, however, for the Greek people to learn two - three truths in addition to the legal ones developed during this long debate. I am so appallingly, with the help of God and the vote of the Greek people, only with a cross of preference, the third decade in the Greek Parliament. Elected from 1993 until now, six times with New Democracy, 1993, 1996, 2000, 2004, 2007 and 2009. And when the New Democracy, with Antonis Samaras, decided to expand with the right-wing executives of LAOS, with the former president of the youth of ENPEN of the junta, with the praiser of Gebels and Mr.Ploris, when he decided to turn New Democracy into a defense counsel of PASOK, which until now we saw how they defended PASOK which was then opposed to New Democracy, then our streets were separated and the Independent Greeks were born, a civil movement that included representatives of the Central Right, the Centre, the Central Left, the patriotic PASOK, such as Vice President Panagiotis Sguridis, and democratic citizens. Mr President, I have never worked with the extreme right. I started from DIANA of Kostis Stefanopoulou and then responded to the call of Constantine Mitsotakis and served until Kostas Karamanlis, that Prime Minister who said he did not cooperate with the extremes. So, after all the years I have been faithful to the parliamentary institutions and the parliamentary procedure, I should like to come by questioning whether a committee of inquiry should be set up, because - he says - I spoke as Minister with a prisoner who asked me to speak with a journalist to denounce the biggest drug case that has ever been arrested in Greece. Indeed, for the first time, I see the Criticism - and I regret it - proposing that a committee of inquiry be carried out, not to reveal the truth or even political feasibility, but in a very clear way to prevent justice and judicial investigation into this larger drug affair. This is the first time that a party is in danger of being accused of acting as a political arm of a criminal organization. And I do not hide from you that when I heard Giannis Kefaliannis earlier in his speech to use the word "jaba brass" I remembered Kostas Simitis when he said "jaba brass" Kostas Karamanlis. "Japa mangos" was the definition of Kostas Simitis in Kostas Karamanlis. And of course, "fucking man" is not an accident, because this case will prove that there are indeed free dudes but also for payment of fools or frauds in the political life of the place, on payment of representatives of criminal and business interests. And the money's a lot. There is too much money, because we must know that this amount of two tons of drugs - I am not saying the three tons - of pure heroin costs production a million dollars and when it is enriched and it comes to murdering our children there are three billion black ones. A lot of blacks, then. And these blacks are the ones used to find defense attorneys. Ladies and gentlemen, this story began on 15 June. At noon on 15 June I was invited by an editor - who will not say his name, if he wishes, to tell me - who told me that his editor's judicial editor brought an article entitled 'Special Court for Kammenos'. And even that this article was pre-printed, and because it has years of partner, it is from somewhere given. Although the editor of this Sunday’s newspaper had financial problems, like all publishers, he refused to publish it. It is the article that came out on the 17th day of the month and began the procedure of proposing a committee of inquiry, 'Special Court for Kammens'. The copy given to me by the editor, then provided by the judiciary author to publish it, is exactly the same as that published by "THE KARPI". I imagine they would have searched other newspapers to get it out in order not to be accused of being the Group that promotes this post. From that day onwards, two new newspapers were published, another newspaper was purchased, another three sub - newspapers were purchased. To this day I am the only politician who I am headline every week in these seven newspapers about the crime of leading a witness to justice who wanted to testify on a drug case. The rest is the Prime Minister or other ministers. And those who perform the contracts are the ones who receive the money. Ladies and gentlemen, the second event for free man or idiot on payment. Today the lawsuit of a businessman of the night was published, a businessman who wrote in his life many years, Efstratios Kaketsis, owner of the well-known "NERADAS", against Ioannis Kourtakis, Alexis Koukouyas and all responsible. He's the entrepreneur who called Lawyer Alexis Kuya to protect him as a lawyer in a case that he has with the TIADED for a center located in the Old Faliro. So what happened there? I read from his message: "I must point out here that, in addition to paragraph 3 of Article 370 of the Criminal Code, which was drawn up by both the sued and invited, I am turning my message directly against the lawyer and as a perpetrator of the offence referred to in paragraph 2, that he has printed to a material body the content of his private conversation with me without my consent, since no one else has been involved in this debate but me and the lawyer and, in fact, cannot be intercepted by any other person except myself." And he continues: "And while he knew that my conversation took place solely on account of my status as my proxy lawyer and on the occasion of the mandate, most of all that my emotional situation was tragic, not only because of my extermination, but also because of the threat that it would be made public by the media of the second inviting and shipper Evangelos Marinaki, who, if I agreed to testify before Mr. Pirates, incriminate third persons, would give me a rich reward over a million euros and save my fortune." I'm filing the lawsuit. [[At this point, the Minister of National Defence - President of the Independent Greeks Mr Panos Kammenos presents for the record the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] A million euros would pay to get the businessman out and name us. Why? Because Mr Brakumatsos, in doing his research, unfortunately, on them, in his complaint against the prosecutor, found that there was no natural automobile. So there's no moral automobile. So, all this conspiracy that was set up to stop the investigation, it wouldn't work out. He didn’t get the one million, just as the publisher, who needed advertising, as others didn’t probably take it, but others took it. And not only did they take them, but they really work as guns for that particular criminal group. And I come to the House. The Prime Minister said earlier about the front page concerning the Minister, Mr Kurubli. Indeed, I too, when I saw this morning that Mr Kourublis was - he says - the shipowner's feast, which he sunk on the ship and even danced in gecko, I called him a couple of times. I couldn't find him. I have just seen his announcement and the announcement of workers at the shipyards in the Perama area and the announcement of civil servants. Kurublis was targeted and he was made by a monkey - news, which he brought here, who else? The representative of interests, the Vice-President of the New Democracy, to announce to the House the monkey news. And what other news brought us here? He has brought an action, which condemns me, because I am implicating Mr. Kourtakis in the case of "NOOR 1". And I'm reading the decision a moment ago. Ten pages is the decision. The three pages he testified. He admits that Mr. Kourtakis - why he cannot accept the treatment - was an employee of the brain of Aimilios Kotsonis, where he continues to join Mr. Kotsonis, “METROMA”, at the same address, but exempted him, because he has not had any criminal involvement so far in the case of “NOOR 1”.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u320	Please, too, be quiet. Don't ask, so there won't be any answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u321	Thirdly, this particular representative of interests came out again, when the process with the Brakumatsu finding went down, they had to find another way. What was the way? My surveillance, surveillance where they found me. So I went to London on an official trip. I didn't stay at the hotel that I had booked since the beginning, because underneath were two specific persons who did this job and my security notified me. I booked a room and paid for it with my card, which I submit, because Mr. Georgiadis wanted to see it. I paid my card, here's my card, everybody sees it, I paid it out of my pocket. [[At this point, the Minister of National Defence - President of the Independent Greeks Mr Panos Kammenos presents for the record the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And what came out and said morning to SKAY? He said the Minister of National Defence must resign because the Minister's Rules of Procedure prevent him from entering a casino. I'm looking for the Rules of Procedure of the Ministerial Council, there's no. I take Mr Baltakos, the former government secretary of Mr Georgiadis, there is neither such a provision. Monkey - news in order to create supposedly new why we should resign.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u322	Be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u323	And next thing you know, there's a connection. It is the particular one that when we come to actually open up the case and investigate with a committee of inquiry or rather a pre-examination committee, when the justice procedure ends, it should be apologied, together with others, for criminal offences that have been committed. And, of course, the first criminal offence and most serious ones are the extortion of judges. I give an indication of the following headlines: 'The criminal responsibilities of Giva and Christofordian are not being ignored' - a threat to a judge who was acquitted, 'Why is still in the case of 'NOOR 1', 'As a suspect in the prosecutor Jiva, port and Triantafyllos', 'Panayotopoulos: Mrs Giva had to be transferred from February', 'When Kammad proclaims and Giva executes', 'To open the telephone talks between Giva and Christofordis' - now found that I and Diva spoke with Christofordis and I met with them - 'Panagiotopoulos: Funny roles of Ghiva and Christofordis', 'Javas chosen to do the job'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u324	What about me? I'm confusing it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u325	In PARAPOLITIC. Give it to Mr. Javarra. I'm not filing it. Read it. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Is that a monkey, Costa? Is that a monkey? Fake news is from the "Parapolistics" of Kurtakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u326	Sue!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u327	"Sent" says Javarra. That is what you must do, ladies and gentlemen. Assurances to do, to make a real committee of inquiry, to see who they are who use the political world beyond their employees, on payment legal or not. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I continue with the headlines: "Patheodorou: We will intervene for the role of Giva", "Georopoulos: We will intervene in the Marios Ice for the role of Giva", "Blood - Gate: Hot questions about the prosecutor Piraeus", "Coujas for "NOOR 1": They will sit on the stool for misuse of power", "Remind misconduct about the "support" deposit", "Loverdos for "NOOR 1": By order of Tsipras in the port undeniable". And 50 more papers. [[At this point the Minister of National Defence - President of the Independent Greeks Mr Panos Kammenos presents for the minutes the above-mentioned headlines, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What do these publications prove? They prove that the offence of the extortion of a judicial officer has been committed. They have clearly committed this crime, as have the offence of using illegally acquired telephone conversations or others. Because, ladies and gentlemen, if there are official talks - I ask the House Step from the National Intelligence Service - and they include me in it too, I ask that they be tabled throughout the House. Let's all get them. If they have my own conversations, which should have if they were watching, they should be given to the House. But not cut it - sew the various isovites, who are your interlocutors and not my own interlocutors. Also, the Prosecutors of Piraeus judges: The conversations presented in the case are illegal intercepts and are not taken into account. Therefore, those who presented them and those who made use of this information committed a felony of Article 370 of the Criminal Code which imposes a ten - year penalty, beyond the fact that the conversations reveal that they are falsified, falsified and modelled. These are the talks that have stood up all this time, trying to build a committee of inquiry. And instead of apologizing today to the honest prosecutor who slandered, they have the courage to be the prosecutors. In fact, in the same case, Mr.Ioannis Kourtakis, in collaboration with the appointed lawyer Alexios Koukias, further as my so-called partner, other than the prosecutor and the port official, a further port official, namely, the main witness at the trial of "NOOR 1", Georgios Katsoulis, who has been abroad for many months as a consulate. And I respond directly to the allegations of Mr Mitsotakis' party: First, Giannousakis sought contact with me and not me with him. Secondly, he argued that he would reveal crimes and fear for his life and the life of his family. Thirdly, I did the self-evident thing, contacted the Minister of Justice as a debt, and he did his institutional duty, contacted the prosecutor responsible, head of the Piraeus Prosecutor, who were already pending relevant proceedings. Ladies and gentlemen, justice is not the letter of the law to release the "ENERGA" lame which some of their prosecutors were their lawyers. Justice is not the amendments that Mr Athanasios had at night to get away from drug barons and equipment misadversaries. Justice is the moral obligation we have to reveal and crush those who slowly and sacrificially kill three hundred and three hundred children who fire three hundred thousands of families to enrich themselves and their accomplices. They're killing society and they're getting rich. And some in here are willing to take the bloodthirsty antidote out of their hands to cover them up. I hereby declare to you, on the Step of the House, that I will not bow down the heroin scumbags to buy bidramian headlines in the newspapers, which are obviously in control. I did not pilgrimise then when Mr Venizelos and Mr Loverdo said that the numbers of the bills were numbered and I paid dearly. They're using what I'm supposed to say about my children and my family. Arrested in my home in Ikaria, Kurtakis employees photographing minors. They went out and said that my sons, sixteen and twenty - three, are anarchists and friends of the Pole Rupe. One is in America six years and the other has never passed the Old Faliro to go up. But they're putting the retina on them. They're sentenced to twenty-three months in prison. We're on. They then target my father as a loan shark who has killed children. For my mother, they said that "open the offshore of Kammenos". Eighty-six years old! And, of course, they put my family forward. Ladies and gentlemen, this tactic - if you do not cheer them up tomorrow - will turn against your own family. For they do not “sold” in any way when some do not“ go with their waters”. And if we let them exist, then we'll all have a responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the rest, much has been said about the 'NOOR 1' case both by our Parliamentary representative and by the two Members, the rapporteur and the Member who spoke, with a statement by Marinakis on the company's money. We are not responsible for dealing with them. Independent justice will examine them, but we have to let her open accounts, find the flow of money. I wish they were innocent. Nobody wants to be guilty. I don't have any personal bills with Marinakis. No personal bills! But if he's behind this case, no matter what it's said, he has to pay. Because this case of 'drug-ship' is a case which has to do with pending criminal cases, whose dissolutions have been slowing down for over a year and a half.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u328	Mr President, I would like to speak. There's no way you won't give me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u329	There is the case of the scheduled games, which, with a proposal for a Daskalopoulos for guarding, with requests for exceptions made every day, remains in the drawer. And, unfortunately, there's no control over who keeps her in the drawer. There are pending cases for the same businessman. Proceed their investigation and, if he is innocent, be acquitted. If he's guilty, pay. Some have discovered Turkish heroin now. But Turkish heroin - I remind you, ladies and gentlemen - is the one who paid the killers of Theophilus Georgiadis in Cyprus. Five pounds were taken by Theophilus Georgiades' killers from MIT. It is Turkish heroin that in 1994 provided Husseinoglu and Sait Saban as old soldiers of the militia in the Greek camps, killing whole towns every year. And some of them were innocent and let go. Who doesn't remember the late Prosecutor of the Ice Arrow, Andreas Flouda, who drew the conclusion of a catapult in 1991 for corrupt officials who covered Husseinoglu? So here, ladies and gentlemen, it is a legal obligation of my own intervention. It is dictated by Articles 37(2) and 40 of the Code of Criminal Procedure as a citizen, but also as a public official. And it's not me who discovered Mr. Marinakis. Giannousakis named him three times. The court in SKAI played it from morning to night. Then they found them. Justice must be allowed to do its job. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to assure you, by reckoning that as far as my own actions are concerned, all my contacts and talks are made by my own personal phone and not by Pakistani phones in the name of Fataul Haqqqani, such as those used by certain innocent few-girled people to set up legal seats. I was never talking about the case with a prosecutor or any other servant involved in it. I have never blackmailed Giannousakis to involve the big businessman Marinakis in the case of "NOOR1". He also testified it at the interview of the Triantafylopoulos. He has done it alone on a pan-Hellenic frequency, before the conversation I had with him, he has done so in his secret statements. And of course, I was unable to guide Mr. Marinakis' money so that they could end up with Giannusakis. The shipowner Evangelos Marinakis is a close friend and associate of the above narcotic trader Ethymi Giannosakis, a close friend of the convicted Aimilios Kotsonis, a close friend and associate of Dora Bakoyannis and her husband Isidoros Kouvelos. And I'm asking, is he working there or not? Is he working in Mr. Marinakis' office or not Mr. Kouvelos? Close friend and partner of Maki Voridis, who's their lawyer. Of course, he is a lawyer and Mr Kurtakis' PARAPOLITIC. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that some people who today become lawyers were the ones who blamed Marinakis. Let's see what Alexis Couyas said about the illegal intercepts. He called him "shooted football," "bad skin", "member of a criminal organisation". Now he's his lawyer. Ladies and gentlemen, Evangelos Marinakis and Yusufakis, who act as a criminal organization, murdering characters, should understand that neither the Sultans nor the Escobars in this country are commanded in this country. In this country there are institutional, judicial bodies, there is justice, which will soon be ruled out whether it is accidental, incidental or serious transactions, the delays in parliament, the strict rapporteurs at the expense of those who are talking with big-time drug dealers. And colleagues, of the accused, who are exempted from penalties, both from criminal law and criminal law charges, both the delays in the investigation procedures, both the corrosion of large portions of public officials, and of course the targeted, coordinated and contaminated press releases of people who are pretending to have no pimps, in order to hide the extent to which mud and slander are issued, who dare to throw against people who are serving the truth and not Escobar, who, gentlemen, believe me, will not prevail. I prefer the role of 'free man', despite his role as a pay-off idiot and a conman of politics.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u330	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u331	Mr President, you will also give me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u332	I'm going to give Mr. Athanasios the floor only, because he didn't have the power...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u333	Mr President, you will also give the floor to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u334	Please, Mr. Georgiades! I will give the floor to Mr Athanasios and to Mrs Bakoyannis, if she wishes, because they have not been able to express their views from the Step. Mr. Georgiadis spoke 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u335	Then you'll give the floor to me. It was the definition of staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u336	I'll give him the floor to whoever I want, whenever I want to.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u337	You will give me the floor under the Rules of Procedure. He mentioned me three times as a 'interest representative'. It's the definition of personnel. You won't deny me my word.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u338	No, Mr. Georgiadis. For Mr. Kammenos...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u339	Mr President, three times he named me as a'speaker of interest'. You'll give me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u340	Sit down and listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u341	You'll give me the floor. I won't listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u342	Mr Georgiadis, you will listen and I will not give you the floor, because you have spoken for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u343	It doesn't matter. Now he mentioned it. Mr President, it is the definition of staff. You know that well. Please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u344	You brought a story, which proved...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u345	It's the definition of personnel, you know that well.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u346	It's not personal at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u347	You're not a tyrant and you can't give the floor anytime you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u348	I am not a tyrant, but since the morning six hundred twelve times the name of Mr. Kammenos has been heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u349	Mr President, I am waiting for the floor. Three times he mentioned me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u350	You will wait, but not at this meeting. I'm telling you right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u351	Don't spoil your good picture, acting like a tyrant.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u352	Please! The good image includes equation and equilibrium. Mr. Georgiadis, for a week and today, especially...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u353	Mr President, do not ruin your good picture to save the Burned. It's the definition of personnel. You'll give me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u354	There's no staff. Mr. Athanasios has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u355	Thank you, Mr President. In accordance with Rule 68, Mr President, Mr Georgiadis is right. Please, your partners to show you article 68. It's the first case. Now, as far as I'm concerned, Mr. Kamenos, what provision do you say and when did this happen? And what is the story of the provision, which the Minister of Justice considered to be a special provision for the 'barbarians' to come out?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u356	The one you recalled within a week.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u357	Please, Minister! Mr. Kammenos, please don't answer. Go on, Mr. Athanasios.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u358	You're ungodly. You're not just a slander. Normally, one should not respond to a sykophant, who is a brutal offense to the aesthetics of this House. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA and ANEL wings]] You'll hear them!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u359	Quiet, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u360	In any case, however, there were many convictions - I would also ask Mr Paradoxopoulos to supplement - by the Court of Human Rights for the congestion of prisons. My predecessors, ministers and the next ministers, have indeed taken measures by means of provisions to dismantle prisons. In this context, since they had the preconditions of dismissal and had served part of the sentence, too many indictees were indeed fired. Among these could have been drug charges. My own provisions, however, provided for up to ten years of imprisonment in general and exempted many offences. The following provision, not only, did it exclude offences, but it did so for up to twenty years. That was an issue that we discussed and when Mr Paradise was Mr Paradise and the other day when the provision for the extension made by Mr Kontonis came in. It's a reality. But that's the story. But not that it was done on purpose for specific individuals. Now, with regard to this issue - which is similar, because it also concerns our own government, but also before - Mr Kammenos, you have not responded to the substance of the matter. It is not a question of whether there is no natural, moral automobile.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u361	Please, this is beyond the debate. That's not the staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u362	You have violated Article 186 of the Criminal Code, "The challenge of committing an offence". And that was what the House had to investigate and - if there is evidence and collect it - could possibly be....
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u363	Thank you very much, Mr. Athanasios.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u364	That's the story and don't slander. What I'm telling you! And I would ask Mr Paradise to say if that is the case with the history of decongestion.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u365	Thank you very much. Historic is known. Please, Mrs. Bakoyannis, you have the floor. If you want, don't get up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u366	Mr President, I have learned to respect Parliament. And I have learned that Parliament has a basic principle, that of dialogue. I have to say that I have been amazed at the fact that the Prime Minister and Mr Kammenos speak lastly because they fear the answers. And there are answers, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u367	Please, be quiet, so we can close the conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u368	Calm down, ladies and gentlemen. And because, I'm a little older than most of you in here, it's a free man who gets up from there causing him to be a committee of inquiry and in the examination he's hiding behind Mr. Tsipras' skirts. That's the free man.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u369	Be quiet, gentlemen!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u370	Mr. Tsipras' trousers, if that bothered you. In any case, Mr President, Mr Kammenos said that I was a friend of Mr Marinakis. I corrected him. I've been his best man since 1996. He has married me, and I have put oil on his son, who is eighteen years old, to restore the truth. But since I have been in New Democracy since 1996, I remember Mr Kammenos's excellent relations with Mr Marinakis very well. And I assure you that I also had social relations with Mr. Kammenos, to be honest, but also with Mr. Marinakis, and is well known, because, as you know, my marriage was transmitted live throughout Greece at that time.... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Calm down! Don't get upset.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u371	Be quiet, please! Please finish, Mrs. Bakoyannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u372	But Mr. Kammenos, who did not have this kind of button with Mr. Marinakis, visited him many times in his office. Isn't that right, Mr. Cammene?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u373	What about me?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u374	You. And when you've been in a weakness lately, you've been sending the wife to visit him, Mr. Cammene. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u375	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u376	And because I would suggest that you be careful, because in this life lies have short feet, Mr Kammene, and because juveniles are good enough to be able to support them, and otherwise, with respect for what you have to say - if you wish, because I have already said to you, and no advice - if you have elementary democratic sensitivity, you will rise up and what you have said from this seat you will now tell all of SYRIZA' s colleagues. You will tell them 'vote for the examination so that you do not become a 'romba'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u377	Before Mr Kammenos responds, for reasons of order and in order for the meeting to be closed, he will take the floor for one or two minutes and Mr Georgiadis will take account of this matter, so that the Minister can take it into account. You have the floor, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u378	Thank you very much, Mr President, for not ruining the good opinion I have on you. As a president, I mean. Ladies and gentlemen, let's go in a row. I have tabled the entire decision, Mr Cammene, from the first to the last page. The decision to which you referred condemns you for a slandering defamation against Mr Kourtakis at the rate of EUR 10 000.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u379	Part of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u380	The 'partial' is why he asked for more money.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u381	Oh, that's it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u382	So I say again that you have 10,000 euros to pay, because the court said you were a slander. Now, because you mentioned the same again, it will obviously reinstate you and multiply the amount. But that's your job. Secondly, because you had the courage to name me for a representative of interests - you, Panos Kammenos, who was in the House - that neither dead will he vote for the memorandum nor cooperate with anyone for the memorandum, and here you vote for it all - so let's see it in turn. First of all, I'll see your card. I said two things, don't rush. First, I said to see your credit card - we'll see it - and secondly, give us permission to ask the casino how much money you've played. That's what you forgot to tell us. Aren't you telling us, Minister, now that you're talking, how much money did you play in the roulette? [[Noise in the Chamber]] Don't fly, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u383	Be quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u384	Listen, ladies and gentlemen, now the best. What did the President of the Independent Greeks and your co-pilot say? 'Pira' - says - 'Telephone' by Mr Baltako'. You, Mr. Tsipras, didn't tell us Mr. Baltakos right-wing, golden, and I don't know what else? Your co-pilot's calling him? Friends with Mr. Baltako?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u385	He was your secretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u386	Now we're going to the last one, which is the most serious one. Mr. Kammenos reported to journalists about his home in Ikaria and his children. Indeed, Minister, whenever you're in a difficult position, you put your children ahead. I'm presenting to the Minutes. [[At this point the Member, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] The press interest is not for your children, Minister, at your house in Ikaria. It is because SYRIZA's colleagues do not know that a fine has been imposed on this house because...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u387	Is that mine?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u388	Your mother-in-law. Because they stole the state. They took the money from the NRP, they said they'd make it a tourist accommodation, make it a villa, eat the fine, and now they don't pay the fine. This is the journalistic interest in the house in Ikaria.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u389	Mr. Georgiades, thank you, it's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u390	And the last one.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u391	Mr. Georgiadis, you're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u392	For the Lord Georgos Georgia...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u393	Last one was the last one.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u394	..you didn't dare say "kitch" and you did well because I saw him with you in your office when I was greeted in '96.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u395	Mine?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u396	Me, you and him. Be well!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u397	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u398	Did you see John Metaxas in my office, Mr. Georgiadis? You weren't even in my office. Neither you nor the other fascoids. From my office, you never dared to pass. You and the rest of the fascoids didn't come in either for greeting inside or for fundraisers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u399	All right, all right, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u400	Second, as far as the photos are concerned, can we send you a picture of our bedroom? If Kurtakis doesn't give you, we'll give you one. The card's there, you can check it out. Mrs Bakoyannis, Mr Marinakis, I met him before you, Mr. Yakoumatou and other colleagues at a Christmas celebration with Mr. Father. That's the time I met him. So my wife never met him. The only person I met then was Mr. Kourtakis and when I made the famous show at PARAPOLITICA, Mr. Marinakis came to say hello. These are the meetings. Tell us, Ms. Bakoyannis, that million in London that you were found in "outside the world", did he leave a shipping that Mr. Marinakis is housed? So bring back the stolen ones and leave the mud to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u401	Mr President, the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u402	For a minute, Mrs. Bakoyannis, for the million. And then again, Mr Kammene, I will give you the floor, but when they open up matters and when there is a personal conflict - because here I am better aware of the fact that we are talking with the President - when it is a question, it must be given. You'll be closed in any case. Mrs Bakoyannis, please, on this subject, which is well known.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u403	Mr President, I am not surprised by Mr Kammenos's vulnerability. But because the Greek people are listening, I have to remind you that when it happened to the story of "subjects" where they wondered whether this million were shares or cash, I, Mr. Kammene, because I wore pants, I came to this House and said...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u404	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u405	I came to this House and asked my fellow Members to vote in favour of the waiver of my immunity. And because Manolis Glezos lives, he came and asked me: "But do you want all to vote in favour of your waiver of immunity?" And I said 'yes'. I went to court, I was fabulously acquitted, and it seemed to be a well-established political case, not that he entered the file, Mr. Cammene...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u406	Where was the money from?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u407	My husband's shipping activity.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u408	Where's his office?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u409	But this is well known. So you take care, Mr. Cammene, because I have been searched by people of another level. I assure you, before and after Bucharest, I have been searched by people, not at your level. So I have nothing to be afraid of. But you, the way you've raised your money, be careful, because you spoke and in the Minutes were written.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u410	Thank you, Mrs. Bakoyannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u411	And there is no worse thing than even having the courage to tell these unfortunate colleagues, half of whom are mute today, that you give them the opportunity to vote in favour of examination.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u412	Mr. Kammenos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u413	The money, therefore, of Mrs Bakoyannis' lost million, went from a shipping company, which had the companies of Mr Marinakis. It is enough for me to do this, in order to make a really great examination, when justice is over and to see who was involved with who.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u414	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u415	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the proposal put forward by the Chief of Police Representation and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the Members of his party, for the Committee of Inquiry, on the investigation of the involvement of the Minister of National Defence Mr Panos Kammenos and other officials and officials in an pending judicial case, is adjourned. It will be followed by a roll-call vote, which will be held in accordance with Rule 72 of the Rules of Procedure. They accept the proposal, they say, 'WHEN'. The non-acceptance of the proposal is said to be 'OH'. The voters say 'PARON'. On the list, the Secretary of Parliament, Mr Anastasia Gara, of SYRIZA and the MP, Imathia, Mr. Apostolos Vesropoulos, from New Democracy, is called on the list. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that we have had fax numbers in the Bureau in accordance with Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, which make their vote known on the proposal. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u416	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The letters sent to the Bureau by colleagues under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure will be recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u417	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that Mr Christoforos Papadopoulos's letter has come to the Bureau, who knows that he is absent from the vote and that if he was present, he would vote 'NOV'. Mr President, I would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, Georgios Koumoutsaskos, George Kasapidis, Christos Stagios, Konstantinos Scandalidis, Evangelos Venizelos, Charula Kefidou, Spyridon Lykoudis and Spyridon Dannelis are absent and by letter they know that if they were present and present, they would vote "NAI". These letters, which express the intention of voting, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting, but are not taken into account in the counting of votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u418	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and to get the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u419	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the roll-call vote in this House. A total of 272 Members voted. In favour of the proposal by the New Democracy, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 121 MPs. Against the proposal of the New Democracy, i.e. 'NO', they voted 151 MPs. 'PARON' voted no one. Consequently, the proposal tabled by the Chief of Officerial Representation and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the Members of his party for a Committee of Inquiry into the investigation of the involvement of the Minister of National Defence Mr Panos Kammenos and other officials and officials in an pending court case is rejected.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u420	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to confirm the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u421	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Two requests have been made to the President of Parliament for permissions for absence abroad. MEP Mr Theocharis (Harris) Theocharis asks for permission from a short-day absence abroad from 28 September to 29 September 2017 to attend a conference. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u422	The House therefore approved the requested permission. The Member, Mr George Stylios, also requests permission from a short-day absence in a European Union country, for personal reasons, from 27 to 30 September 2017. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u423	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-25-S1-commons.u424	With the consent of the House at 20.33 p.m. the sitting on Thursday, 28 September, at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent debate.
