ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before we move on, I would like to make a brief reference from the Bureau of the Greek Parliament on 9 May to the day of the great anti-fascist victory of the peoples. On May 9, 1945, the end of the destructive Second World War is sealed by defeating and conspiracy of Nazi troops. Fascism and Nazism are completely defeated in Europe after the enormous tragedy they have caused. This war has been the most disastrous and appalling of history. It was a totalitarian war that abolished the division lines of warriors and civilian populations, which led tens of countries to its war and left behind over fifty million dead, the holocaust of the Jews with the horrors of the hangings in Auschwitz, Mauthausen, Boheenwald and the other concentration camps. The anti-fascist victory of the peoples would be impossible without the enormous sacrifices of the peoples of Europe. It is worth mentioning the resistance to the forces of the conquerors in Greece, France and Yugoslavia. But the biggest blood tax was paid by the Soviet Union of ten million dead. A population equal to the whole of Greece was sacrificed to prevent the place from sinking into the deepest darkness he had ever encountered. The Soviet people and the Soviet army self-sacrificingly stopped the ripping of Nazis on the East Front, while in Greece national resistance was liberating the first land of Europe from the Nazi occupation. Let us remember that in the face of the violence and terrorism of fascism there have been all over Europe and those who have reconciled or co-operated with the conquerors, participating in the 'Kuisling' governments and in donation battalions. But, as has been said, the major anti-fascist and liberatory movements which led to the collapse of Nazism and its unconditional surrender on 8-9 May 1945 were also corrected. Ladies and gentlemen, the fight against fascism is a battle that draws from the past, is being implemented in the present and is taking place in the future. At the present, however, everything that rekindles its dark fire. They are the policies of austerity and social injustice, the violence with which the peoples and their rights are treated by political elites. Unemployment gives birth to fascism. Poverty gives birth to fascism. The farm gives birth to fascism. The sense of injustice that is channelled wrongly not to the blamer, but to the weaker, is its raw material. That is why the strengthening of democratic institutions and the strengthening of social solidarity and social protection are today the most effective responses against any attempt to revive fascist ideology. These are the solid foundations for the future, the foundations on which the great anti-fascist victory of the peoples has been founded. May 9, 1945, will continue to be a day of deep political and social reflection, so that humanity never relives the atrocities of World War II. Thank you. I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS We begin the debate with the seventh under number 571/7-3-2017, a topical question by the Independent Member of the Achaias Parliament, Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of Economy and Development on "the case of beer and whether there are prostitutions in the Competition Committee". The timely question will be answered by the Minister of Economy and Development Mr. Municipality of Papadimitriou. Mr Nicholas has the floor for two minutes to develop his question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u3	Mr President, I am glad that we are finally discussing a question that went and came - how many times do you say? - Fifty times! I am pleased that the Minister has come, after so many of the Christian-Democratic Party parliamentary interventions to answer exactly the question you said: Can the members of the independent authorities feel that they are uncontrolled even if they might be harming the public? I was really indignant, Minister, because a Minister cannot wash his hands even if he is a non-parliamentary, as can no independent authority feel that he is uncontrolled. Mr.3959- I will testify to him, I gave him to you and to the question - he says exactly that you have supervision. Mr Kyritsakis may speak in this unacceptable way that he answers certain Members' questions to anyone he wants, but not through the Minister to elected representatives of the people. It is an anti-parliamentary monument of its letter of 17 February 2017 asking to enter parliamentary control. Your presence here today, I believe, also sends a message to the members appointed by Parliament of the so-called independent authorities. We have recently seen the ERC leave it to the public and think they have no responsibility. But I think it has a responsibility, of course, and the political leadership will make them understand it. Just before Mr. Kyritsakis left, you have to tell him. So here, I would also like the House and the Greek people to be informed that the President of Parliament has received a letter that I shall be tabling to you. So listen, Mr President, what did the President of the independent authority say through the Minister: 'The Disciplinary Board recommendation did not have to be done', he says, 'because there were no cases in the past that need to be disciplinary'. Signature: Dimitris Kyritsakis. You understand, I imagine, Minister, that this is how you all break the law when you know why only a question has been tabled. Law 3959/2011 is clear: The Disciplinary Board, according to an article of this law, had to have been appointed since 2011 for a three-year term and still nothing has been done. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And, well, for the previous ministers, we understand that, since we are all aware of the relationship between the members of this Competition Committee and, in particular, Mr Kyritsakis. I see Mr. Polakis here. But it is not just Mr. Paulakis who knows Mr. Kyritsaki's relationships with Mr. Hatzidakis and the Mitsotakis family, but he knows them all.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u4	If you're kind, in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u5	I shall conclude, Mr President. You know, I've waited years for this question. Who did not read that Mr Mitsotakis' close associate was Mr Mylonakis, who was Mr Kyritsaki's right hand for years or that Mr Mitsotakis' elite colleague, Mrs Kerameos, has been his wife for years, until the day before yesterday, of the Competition Committee, whom we recently saw taking office in a law firm with specialization - what do you say, Mr Metropoulou? - to competition! May I? No, are there also penalties and penalties and fines, but since there are no instruments to impose them? And Maximus nothing, and the government nothing! Well, to finish, the question has been asked to you. We are talking, for those who have not understood, about an investigation initiated in 2005, Mr President. The committee imposed 31 million on "Athensian Zethymia" for illegality that damaged the public. And when we come and ask: did the Athenian Couple pay? How much did he pay? If he didn't pay, it wasn't anyone's fault? Who should, Minister, ask the parish priest? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes to answer Mr Nikolaopoulos's question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u7	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Nicolopoulos, I would like to remind you, as you have said, that we are not interfering with the exercise of the powers of the independent authorities.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u8	Who asked you to intervene? Same again?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u9	Mr. Nicolopoulou, please, that's no way!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u10	Haven't you seen what they're answering?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u11	It's not like that. Please listen to your denunciation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u12	And therefore we submit Protocol No 1818/2017 document of the Competition Committee with the documents attached to it that answer your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u13	Oh, he'll make the mailmaker!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u14	On the basis of these documents, without, of course, adopting the style and tone of the President of the Authority, Mr Kyritsakis, we are answering your questions as follows: First, the criminal case, for which you are asking, has been filed with the Athenian Advocates-General for Archiving. The judgement of the Advocates-General is expected. The Competition Committee did not appear to be a political applicant in the present case. Secondly, as regards the fine imposed by the Athens Administrative Court of Athens under its decision No 62/2016, it ordered the suspension of execution of the amount of EUR 16,773.979,20, subject to the lodging of a guarantee letter of approximately EUR 8,386.989,60 after the adoption of that decision, ‘Athensian Zythonia’ lodged the above guarantee letter, and also paid the portion of the fine of EUR 14,677,231,80, in respect of which its application for suspension was rejected. Thirdly, with regard to any responsibilities of the officials of the Competition Committee in this case, the Competition Committee is solely responsible for initiating any disciplinary proceedings against them. However, if you have specific information on disciplinary responsibilities of members of the Competition Committee, you can present them to us in order to consider the possibility of initiating disciplinary proceedings by the Ministerial Council. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Nicolopoulos, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u16	What can I say, Mr President? Laugh, cry, what can I say? So the Minister tells the Member who asks him, who calls for parliamentary scrutiny, to the Member who has made a petition - and I will give it here to be in the Minutes - about what has not been done on a case - I imagine you have understood what has been done - now that you have all understood - what he was saying about it? "Many money, Mars," he said from Stepma - "What should we do? If you know something.’ We can ask the pensioners, the poor, but not the Greek brewery, and above all the so-called Competition Committee that has damaged so many years. We have here, you see, I don't have time, but I've brought all these documents for those people who want to see and above all for the extra-parliamentary minister, to know that this is where the papers are coming from. And a simple citizen should have been, if he heard that here there might be fraud or damage to the public, he should have sent it to the prosecutor himself, and not say, "If you have, you should go." We've gone, Minister! And send it, too. To study the papers that I have given you before and which I will present today, to see whether the damage to the public or the benefit of the public would be EUR 14 million, if the 'Athensian Zythophilia' had not been illegally owned by 90% of the market, which Mr Kyritsakis said, Mr President, is in place after the intervention at 50%. Have you asked for small, medium or larger Greek breweries what damage has been suffered or how many have been closed in recent years because of this monopolistic regime? But of course when it's so many millions, you realize how easy the ball goes out! And what did you tell us the courts said? Look at what they said! While they sent it for a record, they did not - listen to this, Mr President - call for a single witness. Only Mr. Kyritsaki! Not even a witness, Mr. Metropoulou! For a case like this! Neither the speaker nor anyone! I had given them ten names, with the first and best of the one who denounced the case and for the sake of his complaints he dealt with and the committee ruled that there is indeed. And it is not that we are talking about a case that the Competition Committee said 'You are wrong'. And what were the steps of illegality? The investigation is therefore beginning in 2005. Researched by the company "Athensian Zythymia" with a market share of 90% in 2005. Since 2006, the committee has had all the evidence and testimonies that the "Athensian Zythemia" has abused its dominant position. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] He finally made a decision in 2015, after having made two years - and I conclude, Mr President - to clean up the decision. It imposed a fine of EUR 31 million on ‘Athensian Zythymia’ for illegality in the years 1998-2013. At the same time, the "Athensian Zythymia" had sales to Greece of 5,5 billion euros and profits before tax and amortisation of 1.4 billion euros. As my Minister admits, Mr Kyatsakis' committee, in the Committee on Institutions and Transparency, said that the 'Athensian Zythemia', after being arrested, limited the market share to 50%. So, you, when you came from America, what do you think? For we here, the provincial MPs, conclude that they illegally held a market share of 40% and over all these years. My Minister, do not expose you. It is not appropriate for you to make either the postman or the mailmaker and you should again see your answers. We don't ask you to answer Kyatsakis. We ask you and we have a duty and a right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u17	Good. The Minister of Economy and Development Mr. Municipality of Papadimitri has the floor for his denology. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Nicolopoulou, as you know, and the prosecutor is independent, but the evidence you have will be interfered with...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u19	What do you mean by being independent? That we don't have trespass circuits?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u20	Mr. Nicolopoulos, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u21	But I don't understand...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u22	Let the Minister finish his answer. Minister, please continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u23	I also want to tell you that for the victims of the brewery case, we are negotiating a bill on their compensation. So what I can tell you is that these victims will find their point through the bill and we will also testify what you have and we will go up to the Arena Ice.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u24	Although you've taken it before, I'll give it back so you don't have an excuse.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u25	Mr. Nicolopoulos, you don't have the floor. Thank you, Minister. We move to the third with number 552/3-2017 a topical question from the Z Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Mr Spyridon Lykoudi to the Minister of Health about the degraded state of health. The current question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Health, Mr Paul Paulakis. Mr Lykoudis, you have the floor to develop your timely question in two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you know, in the context of parliamentary scrutiny, a question arises when it is tabled and answered three months later, I have the impression - I think you understand it - that from a timely question it becomes an unreasonable one. I am not saying this in order to criticise either you or the Ministry personally, because it is common practice in the parliamentary control process, to have such delays. I am simply saying this, in order to get to know you from the outset that obviously in my question the directness and the directness of its structure have been lost. The directness of this issue has not been lost, because the issue of health is always timely, but the directness of the data may have been lost, which may have changed. I say this from the outset because I want to have a very clear understanding and debate between us. We believe that the National Health System, based on the image we have, experiences multiple deadlocks and the relationship of patients with the National Health System. Primary health care has problematic functions and this, in combination with staff shortages, leads hospitals, based on our own assessment, to an obvious crisis. The primary national health network, based on the picture we have today, employs half the doctors from those employed in 2014, is outside any logic of anyone who wants to deal with it even well. Something similar is happening with the EPPY doctors, as according to the President of the Pan-Hellenic Medical Association, when I wrote this question - I say it again, because I want to be very clear and honest in the debate we are having - the five thousand contracted cannot serve thirty million patient visits a year. Corresponding to hospitals, the deficiencies in permanent staff amount to six and a half thousand doctors and twenty - thousand nurses. Also, the president of PIS said that permanent recruitment, if done and done, takes four years to complete and that the twelve-month contracts that will take place, will not cover standing needs. The situation and function of the EAW are also corresponding. I had asked a question, which was never answered. On the occasion of today's question, I hope you will answer. So, in view of the above, why do I not want to get away from time - I ask you: Who is the Ministry planning? With what timetable will you proceed to the recruitment of the contractors and the permanent ones that have been declared? In view of the health cuts that have been made by the health sector, is there any other plan for the proper management of available resources, so that unfavourable phenomena such as the ones I mentioned earlier do not appear from here and beyond? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr. Lykoudi. The Deputy Minister for Health will answer Mr. Paul Paulakis. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Vice President, I am not fugitive, as you know. It's just that because we run a lot, we don't always have the chance to answer the time we have to. That doesn't mean we can't answer. I will try, in fact, to cover the lost time from the answer - and I have done so - by updating the information I will present to you shortly. Because it really is a chance to say a few things. Because the earthquake, famine and stress of the health area, which is raised by a series of SMEs, has nothing to do with reality anymore, I am not talking to 'I'm going', I am talking about what we have done. We received a system in October 2015, when we started ruling on the back of operating collapse. Today, so many months later, we have to say: First, the cost limits for the health sector that New Democracy and the PASOK agreed on in the medium term - the previous government - were as follows: For 2015, 1,388 billion. For 2016, 1,404 billion. For 2017, 1,420 billion and the same for 2018. Plus EUR 110 million, i.e. 1,530 billion. 110 concerned primary, health centres and health regions. What we have achieved, and that is what we are doing: in 2015 it became 1,556 billion. In 2016, it became 1,634. Same for 2017 with 20 million other, 1,654 and so for 2018. Plus 150 million for primary school. I mean, 1,800. In other words, in the four years 1 billion more in public hospitals and health centres in the country. These are figures in the medium term, they are not disproved. At the same time, there was an increase in state funding from the State budget by EUR 300 million to public hospitals, health centers and primary schools, and also, for the first time, there was a huge transfer of resources in 2016 -- and continued in 2017 – from EEAS to hospitals. While in 2015, EEAH collected from the insurance funds 3,490 billion and was able to give hospitals 80 to 90m euros, in 2016, received EUR 4,129 billion from the insurance funds and gave hospitals - thank you Mr Petropoulou for that - 530m euros. There is no such historical precedent. That was why, while on 31-12-2015, the hospitals in the country closed down with a deficit of EUR 935 million in 2016, on 31 December, they closed off with a cash surplus of EUR 35 million. These are elements that are not questioned. Anyone who can question them may question them. Secondly, to speak specifically, from October 2015 until today, the following employment relationships have been committed to the public health system in the country: First, permanent doctors from old notices that were frozen and uncooked, two hundred eighty. Second, permanent doctors from new notices a hundred thirty-eight. Watch out, they're on duty. There are four hundred minutes in the Ministry, beyond these thirty-eight minutes, on the way. From the permanent staff notices, 4K/2016 and 5K/2016, eight hundred and fifty people and two other two hundred of the rolling tables following this notice were hired. A hundred and eighty-six have gone. Nine people were hired from the 1998 ADP competition. From AEMY to Santorini Hospital, they went 30. From the 12-month OAED employment programme we got three thousand people. From subsidiary doctors are a thousand three hundred and eighty three by December 2016, new and other two hundred seven added to them in 2017. Other ancillary hospital staff. As of May 2016, five hundred and fifty people were recruited. From the IMCF were hired two hundred sixty-seven and four hundred ninety in the migration programme to support hospitality structures. All of this is assembled to eighty - eighty - sixty - four persons who are serving and of which two thousand four hundred eighty - four are permanent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u29	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u30	I'll finish the evidence on this staff, and I'll tell the rest of it in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u31	The quote of that kind of evidence doesn't help me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u32	What can I do to you? I can't help you any more.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u33	Minister, quoteing such evidence doesn't help me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u34	I can't help you any more. Listen to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u35	Minister, excuse me, but in my question will you make a political speech?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u36	You'll tell me in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u37	In your dentistry, Mr. Lykoudi, if you're kind.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u38	I speed up, although the evidence is detailed. In the process of undertaking full notices from various categories, there are a thousand eight hundred thirty three, of which the thousand four hundred twenty-three permanent. There have been notices, they have been selected, and they are in the process of being appointed. Announcements that have been made but have not been completed, are for two thousand eighty three, that is, a thousand six hundred sixty-six out of seven, two hundred fifty-seven of the special categories of 7K, sixty-sixty new notices from the two thousand permanent doctors. And these two thousand eighty-three are permanent. Also for a notice are: Thousands of eight hundred permanent doctors, three thousand per cent for the TOMYs starting in the next month, restoring eight hundred fifty by the OAED, forty for the EKT and seventy-seven in collaboration with the Ministry of Labour for the special categories of luxuries, etc. These are the six thousand percent, of which two thousand fifty are permanent. That is why I say that the ERC has had to see such support from its staff since the 1980s, because all of this is summed up to eighteen thousand sixteen hundred and twelve people. With this staff, with the eighty-three hundred and eighty-eighty people taking over - so that we do not forget - and with the funding I said before, it is clear that the health situation has nothing to do with the health situation when we took over.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u39	Good, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u40	For the NSA and the rest I'll tell you in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u41	Mr. Lykoudi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u42	In the process of parliamentary scrutiny, Minister - you know, I will not teach you any lessons now - all I do not need is to quote such evidence. Take out an announcement, give it to the public, let's look at it...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u43	I've said it many times, but other things are written.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u44	Will you let me talk? Will you let me say mine, too?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u45	Minister, Mr. Lykoudis speaks.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u46	Eight minutes you spoke. Let me say what I want. Is it possible for anyone to retain the information you are giving today in a parliamentary control procedure? I don't question what you're saying, it might be like that. My question was not about what the government is doing today in relation to the past, because from the beginning to the end of your political presence at this time you say what you people did not do. Is that the question?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u47	Who is she?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u48	Where is the health system in relation to the needs of the state and society today? That's the question. It's not if you're a better Minister than the previous one. If that's possible! So I am not saying the same thing as you are, because I do not have it to say. I do not question the sincerity of what you say, because I cannot question it. I have in my hands evidences of health factors. For example, I have the image of the WTO on the situation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u49	You're on your way now!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u50	Oh, excuse me very much. I saw the face you were making. You may question the credibility of the WTO and you are doing well. I'm not gonna check on you for this thing. I have another way of collecting information to exercise parliamentary control? I don't have anyone else. On the basis of WTO data, therefore, the whole country is suffering at hospital level. I want to recognize the positive ones. Let me tell you, for example, that I had noted the issue of the tomographer at the Hospital of Corfu, whose function has been pending for ten years. I can assure you, however, that, although one and a half years after you took over the government, you operated him in August last year. Let me acknowledge that you have done something too late. The whole other picture? Patras Hospital. Staff shortages. Agrinio, Aegio, Kalavriton, Lefkada Hospital, Twin wall. I don't want to read them to you. I will speak for another eight minutes, as you have spoken, and I do not want to abuse my colleagues' time. Look at the image that the WTO gives. This is the instrument of the workers. Where else am I going to draw evidence from? I say again to you that I listen very well to what you are saying, but you cannot, as soon as I give you the details of the WTO, make me a "come now", i.e. 'if the WTO'. Where do we get evidence from? Where else will we collect an image so that we can testify it? So I say to you, Minister, that the question that I put under parliamentary control is not a question concerning this critical health issue to fight or question your intentions. It is to see if we can have another picture of this area that is suffering, the so sensitive area of social function, such as health. If the answer is - and I close, Mr President - the submission of evidence to show me that the current government is doing better than the previous ones, that is a political story that we are fed up with in this Chamber. We're sick of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr. Lykoudi. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes to answer your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u52	Mr. Lykoudi, you also have the opportunity to monitor some press releases issued by the Ministry of Health with what I'm saying, which lists these details in detail.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u53	Mr. Polakis, I'm watching you. Don't think so.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u54	It is not possible then, Mr Lykoudi, not to see these elements and to see only the falsehoods and disaster that the WTO says from morning to night with the 'carnival' of health, with the ten mules, the three carriages and the thirty balloons. Where are the workers missing? They're gone. A transferring WTO board of directors is under some trade unionists who have lost access to the possibility of rosy movements, transfers and local micro-power. Don't work. Otherwise, we'd have a flood of mobilizations if it were true the lies they say from morning to night to re-justify their existence. What I mentioned before, I think they describe a situation that, on the basis of the first dialectical law, Mr Lykoudi - because you have also passed through the Left - the accumulation of many thousands of small quantities leads to a new quality. Eight thousand plus the system is a quality different from eight thousand except. How rather eighteen and a half plus. Of course, don't tell me now what the idea of the health system is. For me too, health in theory is the state of complete and dynamic harmoniousness of man with his natural working and social environment. In a palatial state and an advanced socialism we will have other things in the field of health. This is where we compare the poor thing that Mr Vorides has left with the development we are going to do. What are we gonna compare with? What do we have in advanced communism? With the poor thing they've left, and how we're sending her to their feet. That's what we're gonna compare.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u55	So, in order for the Lefkada Hospital to function, do we have to go to advanced communism?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u56	Let me just say a few more clues to get this over with. So listen to me. EAEC 2014. Grant from the State Budget for operating expenditure EUR 16.300,000. For overtime and off-site staff other than doctors 8,942,000 euros. For doctors' newspapers 2,260,000 euros. That makes us 30,000,000 euros. And in 2015 and 2016 and 2017, the amount increased to 18,500,000 euros for supply at 11,180,000 euros. We have 2 million more, in other words, for overtime, to cover both off-site travel and everything. And we paid especially in 2015, about six hundred, seven hundred grand, left unpaid by the previous ones. Doctors' papers went to 2,500,000 euros. With the legislative arrangement that EAW will receive 0.86% of the EEA health expenditure annually, and on this basis, last year, it took EUR 26 million for 2012 and for 2016, the total state funding of the EAW amounted to EUR 58.618 000, from EUR 30 million. Now it will go to 60 million in 2017, because we will pay back 50 million euros to the Air Force. With what we're doing, we're going to have some money to renew fleets, equipment and whatever it wants. The ninety ambulances were received. Competitions are also being opened for others. Another some 90 million through the regions. There is also the Niarchos Foundation in progress for another hundred forty - three ambulances.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u57	Thank God.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u58	No, it's not thankfully. Ninety we got, when you kicked them in 2007 and ninety more, sixty for Attica is one of the... This is the situation in the EAW. The situation is much better. The EMCDDA has also strengthened. It now takes ninety-three people. Last year he took a hundred and eighty-six and another forty will be proclaimed and he has another forty of special places. I do not include those who are in the programme for the hospitality of refugees or from other actions or from the OAED programme. All this, therefore, Mr Lykoudis, gives another picture of what they are struggling with and with less and less believers now trying to show the media. I've been through it many times. Don't say it again. We also made it public with evidence and more will come out. There's gonna be too much going on in the exam.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u59	Good, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u60	That's what I'm closing down with, Mr. President. When some of the big or middle media were taken every month to show a banner, 20,000 euros, or to publish one day an article on "Poliomyelitis Syria, says, or hospital infections" they received 19,000 euros, or eight thousand and a thousand euros to create a communication plan for us - so individually, "You come here, Mr Vorides, take eight grand to make me a communication plan", say - when they were taken and we cut them, they would be black and white. It's okay. We're shining reality!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u61	Good. Thank you, Minister. We move on with the second question with No 777/28-4-2017 on the first cycle of the MP Iraklio of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARK KEgeroglou Vassiliou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "Let the fifty thousand people under retirement be robbed by our fellow citizens of OAU and OGA, who are today without income and without pension". Mr Anastasios Petropoulos will reply to the current question by the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor to develop your timely question in two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr President. I cannot start developing the question unless the comment that the Tsipras Government proves to be the most unreliable one ever passed from this place. Now they tell us that they will do everything that they have taken to the stage of advanced communism. Mr. Katrugalos with his inconsistencies and his parallel lies are a genuine expression of this policy. He talked about reforming the insurance company and caused the teratogenicity of the FBI. He promised to raise pensions and legislate a cut. They committed themselves to the protection of small-scale pensioners and abolished the ESS. He was talking about a fair distribution of insurance contributions and built a robbery and non-contributory system. But the government did not stop with Mr. Katrugalos' feats. Today they admitted that they proposed to the Troika and a new increase in insurance contributions. Minister, have you envied the glory of Mr. Katrugalo? In the past few days you have caused great confusion with your contradictory statements and Article 20 of Law No4387 and the cases of pension cuts to 60%. We ask for the Circular version and deny it ironically. Of all the beneficiaries of the CAP aid, fewer than half of them have been activated so far, which has led the European Commission to postpone the catalytic date until 15 June. We ask you to increase the EUR 4,000 cap for the outstanding debts to the OGA that can be adjusted in parallel with the issue of pensions and deny it. Can you explain to us why you do not accept an increase in the amount of EUR 4,000 for a pre-retirement arrangement at the pre-retirement stage and EUR 20,000 for the OSCE?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. The State Secretary for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr Anastasios Petropoulos will respond within three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr President. The Commission has made an extension, not only for Greece, but also for other European Union countries, Mr Kegeroglu, until 15 June, to declare the rights. It is therefore unnecessary to appear as the European Union's initiative for Greece, which has caused a problem for farmers. It is a general measure of the European Union and not just for Greece. Secondly, I have said on several occasions - and I do not think there were any contradictions - that all those who make rights statements will have, as far as farmers are concerned, total pension provision by 2024 without cuts and without paying contributions, as will also be the case for those who had become pensioners from other insurance funds by 12 May 2015. Therefore, there is no such issue and I do not think there is room for confusion and misunderstandings. Let me come to the answer to this question, which has also been answered by other previous opportunities. I have said that the amount of the contribution that the government had set you as a farmer is not the sum of 4,000 euros. He was EUR 15,000 for the freelance professionals and went to 20,000 and that corresponds, about three years in debt. If we went to EUR 20,000 and farmers, it would mean that they would have needed about sixteen years of debt, namely that farmers would not pay for sixteen years and that they would be netted without any payment of the total pensions that they will then receive. It is inappropriate and is also opposed to the principle of universality and compulsoryity, which must govern social security. If we go to the ten years you're talking about, it's about debts of about eight years, based on the level of the contribution that has been made at the moment, that is, almost half of the minimum duration that one has to be insured to receive a pension. They do not meet the criteria that you propose. However, the Government proceeded with the adoption of the provisions of Law 4469. On 3-5-2017, the relevant law was published and I will go ahead with the adoption of a ministerial decision that will specifically regulate and on criteria and conditions much more on the issue of free professionals and farmers. And there we will see the possibilities that we will use from this provision for the payment of the levy due.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u66	Minister, on 21 April you told us that young retired people too will not have a cut. On 28.4.2017 you came to plenary and it is the first time I saw you say frankly that "if I caused confusion, I take it back and I correct it". 'What I said last time...' - you said in particular - '...it was only for those who have the property, but do not grow. All the others who cultivate and have taxable income will have the 60% cut." First of all, then, contradiction and a different response that has caused confusion. The second is the definition of when and then is a new pensioner. Once you told us from 1-1-2017 and then you told us from 13-5-2016. That's it. If you do not issue circular, there will continue to be confusion because you are turning into what you are accused of. What did you say? Fake news. Publish a circular, just as you did on 20 April, for farmers. Let's go to the theme of the plaque. In 2012, by law, the 15,000 became 20,000 for the OGA 4,000. We had three years of crisis then. Today we have 2017. Debts have been accumulated. It's plus four years full and more. What we are asking is specific. The 4,000 to raise them. You don't want to take it 15,000, 2000? Double it at 8:00. But it is twice the years of the crisis. Give a 50% increase to 20,000 to go 30. Give the two months one more room to become three. By the time the man, who owes due due time and pays you 20,000, has to collect another 15.10.5 of the bodies. But even the bank would give him, the procedures are more time-consuming than the two months before. Now it's not enough. It's got to be a quarter. We are not asking you, as you are about to see, to some strange things with criteria that cannot be applied. Here I have two questions for SYRIZA MPs. One is signed sixty-four and the other sixty-five and they say exactly the same thing as me. Some kind of weird stuff they say, too? Aren't these rules that you need to take into account and make a ministerial decision? The questions are - not to testify to them in the Minutes, as they are multipages - 4389/22-3 and 4128/13-3. Take an initiative at last. Take off the circular and go on increasing the sums we ask you to. It's nothing, which needs negotiation with the troika. It's our thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u67	Good. Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr President. On Thursday I think you have asked me to reply on the application of Law 4469. We will also have a more detailed debate there to see from the Greek people and the contributors to social security the possibilities provided by these provisions for the settlement of their debts. Of course, the ministerial decision required will be adopted in time in the next period. The stakeholders will be consulted - I said this today on an opportunity to discuss this at a conference - in order to best do our work and to achieve the best result in the recovery of the debts, for the insured and for the social security system. Therefore, Mr Kegeroglou, the issue you raise will be a matter for us to consider, because with Law 4469 there are serious possibilities for better addressing these debts and through the ministerial decision that will be put in place, we will give even better solutions than those that previously existed for all the insured. However, in any case, the principle of compulsoryity and universality in social security should be guaranteed, because it is a fundamental principle of its existence and I think that no one will object to respecting these fundamental rules. In this context, such initiatives will also be taken with regard to the institutional immunisation of this possibility. There we will look more specifically at things and I have no objection to the debate that will take place with the institutions to have your own proposals, which will also be put to the social actors, to take advantage of this possibility, which the government has in a way that I really believe is effective. This effort must be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u69	Thanks to the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr. Petropoulos. Before we proceed to the debate on the topical and urgent question of fourteen Members of the New Democracy, I would like to mention the timely questions that will not be discussed. We will not discuss the first question by number 783/2-5-2017, by Mr Ioannis Antoniadis, Member of the New Republic of Greece, about the overall and not partial relocation of the community of Achlada Prefecture Florina, due to the obstruction of the Minister in question. The first question will not be discussed under number 782/2-5-2017, the Member of the Attica of the New Democracy, Georgios Vlachos to the Minister of Finance, on the proposals - requests from the Mediterranean Municipality in view of the consultation on the renewal of the Athens International Airport Convention "Eleftherios Venizelos" with the Greek State for the period 2025-2055, due to the obstruction of the respondent Minister. We will not discuss the second question with No 659/27-3-2017, by MP B' of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panayotarou to the Minister of the Interior, on the "breathing action by Turkish agents and their representatives in Thrace", due to the obstruction of the Minister in question. We will not discuss the fourth question with number 596/13-3-2017, the second question of the Athens Parliamentary of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Helen Zarulias to the Foreign Minister on the subject "The World Bank "characterizes" the Aegean in Turkey", due to the obstruction of the Minister in question. The fifth question is not being discussed under number 479/14-2-2017, the Evia MP of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Michus to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning the burden of marine ecosystems in the Mediterranean with radioactive waste due to the obstruction of the Minister in question. Similarly, the sixth question is not discussed under number 568/6-3-2017, by MP II Athens of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Helen Zaroulias to the Minister of the Interior on the subject: "The Municipality of Kavala legalizes the pseudo-state in tourist exhibition in Constantinople", due to the obstruction of the Minister in question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u70	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u71	Yes, Mrs. Zaroulia, I hear you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u72	Mr President, because the democratic forces have defeated fascism, we are enjoying the good of democracy! For the past two months, the democratic ministers of SYRIZA have not been coming to answer two questions, which you have read a moment ago, relating to our national issues. One is not here near us tonight, and completely democratically the reason he gave us is that he is 'not being discussed'. 'We are deciding and ordering'. This is your democracy. Because on this issue of the Municipality of Kavala I have been placed two months ago, I would like you to give me some time to refer to the map of the World Bank showing the Aegean Islands on Turkish territory. In other words, it grants the Turkish people a priori to our islands.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u73	I'll give you two minutes, Mrs. Zarulia.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u74	Thank you very much. This picture is clearly challenging and favours Turkey's aggressive expansionist policy. We also have to note that, while Turkey's aggression and Erdogan's challenges increase, the more caring the behaviour of Greek coexistence and our Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not react and does not even defend the acquired assets. The Golden Dawn is not expecting a nationalist coup d'état to defend the laws of the Greeks. He expects nothing other than a coup d'état, which honors those condemned for espionage, as Belogannis had been convicted with a final court ruling. And it would be a good thing if the Greek people were to look for the truth and not to be content with the lies of the left orders and the guilty silence of the false right. The only respondents who responded to the excitement against the nation and history with the Belogannis Museum were us Chrysayites and one day later we were attacked by axes and bombs against our offices. And the Marxist state police didn't catch one. And of course, how would he arrest? The Greek people, therefore, have the best thing to do, is to send this SYRIZA - ANEL as soon as possible to the timescale of history. He has to react. It'll be very good for our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u75	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, twenty-four students and students and eight teachers attending them from the Municipal Schools of Arkassa and Transparenti Karpathos, as well as from the 11th Municipal School of Mytilini. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda for the INQUIRY Question No 18/15/5-4-2017 will be discussed at the New Democracy Members' topical and urgent debate. Mavroudi Voridis, Maximou Charakopoulos, Konstantinos Gioulekas, Konstantinos Tsiras, Anna - Michel Asmakopoulou, Miltiades Varvitsiotis, Sophia Vultesis, George Georgantas, Konstantinos Karagunis, Georgiou Karasmani, Dimitrios Kyriazidis, Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos, Konstantinos Javara and Iasona Folila to the Minister of the Interior, with the theme: "The self-government in the goal of the Government". The first honourable Member of the New Republic, Mr Makis Voridis, has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as he has said, I have heard from the Step of the House, the Minister of State, to punish our resignation because we have not been linked, as he has said, by any means in the field of self-government. So one, instead of this criticism, would expect there to be some great incision or intervention in the field of self - control on the part of the government. And not only is there not such a thing - two and a half years - but here, in fact, there is not even an elementary exercise of what must be done to ensure that relations between the central government and local government are operational and regulated for the benefit of the citizens. And I'm explaining. What is the big debate that the government has chosen to open today on matters of local government? The famous issue of governance and, in particular, the issue of the electoral system. As if today's problem with regard to self-government is the electoral system! That was their misery! That's what people wake up and sleep! That's what's bothering them! That is, it's supposedly, the big thing that needs to be solved! But also in this respect, what comes and says the government? He says the Secretary-General, Mr Poulakis, in his place at all the relevant self-government conferences, CEDEFOP, ENPE, but wherever else he finds himself: 'We will legislate on the simple analogue'. And since, of course, this raises a huge issue, it comes with a statement - here is to clarify the precise content of the statement - and Mr Skourletis says: 'Yes, the simple analogue, but it will have a majority'. I do not think and do not think that the major thing is to discuss the electoral system. I think there are a number of huge operational issues that have been cleared up, but even in that, the government's position is not clear. A finding is presented as a working product of a committee of service actors, which participated, to a certain extent, in the CEDEFOP and the EIA. And this finding has various thoughts between which it essentially incorporates popular-democratic elements: People's assemblies with decisive powers that remove powers from the mayors. I know Mr. Skourlet's answer. That is to say that this is for consultation or that they are the thoughts of the committee that does not commit the government and that the government is reluctant to present its positions, but after hearing the content of such a project that has already opened up such a specific debate. In the meantime, however, dialogue with the institutions, with the CEDEFOP, has already been consolidated. I understand that the majority of the JRC are obviously not the government's political preference. I get it. However, that is no reason why we should not respect the institutional process, that the Minister, with forty mayors, should go to a meeting, that they want forty mayors - they are mayors, they are elected, they are self-government agents, they are not random - to talk to the Minister and the Minister withdrawing from office. The pretext was that something happened with cell phones, someone was taking pictures, they weren't closed, they didn't open - I don't know - as if the mobile phones matter was now important in front of the dialogue that had to be held! He was, therefore, undermining the dialogue with the institutions, which is replaced by the visits of the Secretary-General, but also of the Minister of State, to parties in which he is called heretic, close to SYRIZA! Is this how institutional dialogue will take place with self-government? Are we going to call on our people to exchange our views? But these are not the representatives of the government. However, I shall now also refer to matters which have arisen very sharply, to which my colleagues will be referring very extensively, but I shall make them briefly. Well, the great intersection for self-government is not, but the great fuss about the so-called issues of governance we have. Dialogue has been undermined, but the main operational issues are not settled here. For example, our bad government - those who were the well-known memorialists, the analgesics, the enemies to the people - had regulated the issues of the detained for the municipalities and within economic narrowliness the money to be paid for had been found. And they were rendered not in the way that the law clearly defines, because they have left the central state's debts to self-government, but they had been set. So until last year in the budget there were written amounts that exactly met these needs of the municipalities that - I stress - are not invented by the municipalities, they are not their own, but they are legislated and because they have not been 'informed', they are. Since 2009, a new generation of detainees has been created, but this government, this sensitive and left-wing government - and all the relevant good things these people have - these sums to operate local government has not taken care of. In fact, they were cut without a commitment to be given. I am also going to address an issue of the greatest - quasi-minor, supposedly - left-wing sensitivity to poverty structures. Poverty structures in the municipalities were working. Some social grocery stores or social pharmacies served some people who were in extreme poverty and in great need. On this point, there were some workers who were financed by the NSRP. They will be covered - it says now - from the new programmes that we expect to open up from the regions. Yes, sir. With care, what has happened in the meantime? No, these people can't be paid. So, in fact, there's a huge loose end, because there's a delay. They didn't know that the NSRF programmes would end? They knew it. Why didn't they act and now they're waiting? I come to a huge issue, which has been created, with the full responsibility of the government. My colleague, Mr Georgant, will develop it further. You know that. In municipalities, they were fixed-term contractors, because most of them worked in cleaning services. Why? Whether they are tourist municipalities and in summer they have increased needs or because they are municipalities, which have a holiday home and have a great diversity in their population from winter time to summer. These are covered by fixed-term contracts. The government comes in, which says, "No, they cover fixed and fixed" and does not say that, but says that "I will extend the contract time, the fixed-term contracts, I will extend them until 2016". And it comes in 2016 and gives new extension until 2017. The mayors say, "But we don't have that money to pay for it. We can't pay them. We want them for a specific job, so we do not want this extension." "We don't care, the law is digitized." [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. "The law is passed. We do not care.' The Court of Auditors is coming along and they say: "But these two extensions suffer from a constitutional aspect. No expenditure is to be paid.’ The government comes in, catches the mayors from the ear and says to them: "No, if you do not do the extensions of contracts, you violate duty and I send you to the district to apologise for this violation of duty that you do, which controls you and disciplinaryly". The Court of Auditors' steps are coming and they say, "But how will you pay? I do not approve the expenditure because this expenditure comes from constitutionality." They resort to certain courts, the workers lose the case of prolongations. They've already started and come up with negative decisions. I'm sorry, but only SYRIZA could do that when he's been warned about all this. Take note of the issue, which is coming now: The issue of the use of beaches. You didn't like the previous institutional framework. You brought a provision that you changed the previous institutional framework now in the forest maps bill. You are making the process stronger by adding conditions for the adoption of the common ministerial decision and the joint ministerial decision has so far not been adopted. We are at the beginning of May, we are entering a tourist season and we are still discussing what is going to happen with the beaches. We are still discussing - and take note of what risk - there is no risk, because of the electronic auction platform - because that is what the new pattern says - a huge delay. I will leave you to legislate on mobility, which is unprecedented, voluntary in terms of the availability of the staff member to move to where, but where the municipality from which he is moving is moving is not asked. Is it possible that the chief never asks anything about an employee moving somewhere? The next question is: does this not affect self-government? Doesn't it directly affect her? Does it not affect its right to in the final analysis manage its employees, rather than by consortium of officials and mediation of the Minister's approval, to actually make this mobility possible? So, not with regard to the large, not with regard to the great idea of self-government, not with regard to the large areas, but with regard to what is defined in the Constitution, which defines the frameworks of the relationship between local government and central state - that is, what? - supervision, regulation, legality, and in this respect you cannot function effectively, creating huge issues that naturally result in...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u78	Shut up with this, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u79	I'm closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u80	Thank you very much. Then Mr Miltiadis Varvitsiotis, MP in Athens, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u81	Ladies and gentlemen, if we want to admit something sincerely, it is that of the few institutions operating in the country, it is the institution of local government, with all the interventions that have been made in recent years, interventions that we may have objected to, whether they were called 'Kalikaratis'. It is certain, however, that with all the changes that have been made, today we do not have overdue municipalities. We have municipalities, which respond to their duties, which offer serious social work and which have created structures - as a counterweight to the social pressure that existed in the context of the crisis. They also built original structures to deal with the humanitarian crisis, co-financed by the Ministry of Labour and Social Security programmes, through the NSRF 2007-2013. These structures managed to serve more than a hundred twenty - thousand people. They operate in sixty-six municipalities in the country, involving social grocery stores, pharmacies, symposia, mediation offices, homeless reception centres, sleeping rooms. These programmes are actively involved in forty-seven social schemes and fifty non-governmental organisations. It is an advanced form of social protection, but the government today stops funding. The same government says that it is sensitive to those who fall, to those affected by the economic crisis. But it doesn't do anything to strengthen them. He's trying to build parallel structures while they exist. Of course, there's still something else. Instead of strengthening these structures and taking advantage of this experience in dealing with the immigration issue, he is basically ignoring that there are and wants to build new structures from the beginning. I really don't understand that, Minister. I don't understand the hostility you're showing against local self-government. You're ignoring them functionally. You are ignoring the resolution of chronic problems. You're ignoring her successes. And today, all you want to do is reshape their electoral system, as Makis Vorides presented it a moment ago, through a sense that we don't control it, we can build something else, so that we can participate in the structures of local government, at least in power. I really have served local government and I have full respect for people from all parties who serve it. Why, in the local self-deficiency, what is more important is not the flag you are elected and it is not the flag of the party you support, but the effectiveness of the proposal and the work you do in managing citizens' problems. Do not think that citizens now vote with such party criteria in local government, to write a mortgage at some point that you may have a significant percentage of municipalities, to which mayors will come from SYRIZA. It doesn't matter to the citizens. It's indifferent. It is interesting how the successes of self-government will continue, how the property will continue to be exploited and how the potential, institutional armour and institutional functions will be provided to the municipalities. Mr Minister, I too would like to ask you why you are not doing an incision to the beaches? Indeed, for fifty years the Greek state has not been able to create an institutional framework for which the beaches belong, how they can be exploited and how they can finally be maintained, but how they can be kept publicly, but how to maintain a well-being and have revenue and service for all the million visitors, which we will have this year. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You will allow me, Mr President, to use my dentistry as well. Thirty million tourists are waiting this year. They come for our beaches, most of them. We expect thirty million tourists and yet, May, you have not arranged the way the beaches will work this year. Make a cut at last! Surrender the beaches to the municipalities, stop the control of the Ministry of Finance, where he exists and be with you. Set right rules, which apply to international law, do what previous people have failed to do. You, not only do not do the incision, you have not even succeeded in the failed old model to do it in time, that the beaches in January, February, so that today the businessmen are installed, that they have put their umbrellas, their sunbeds, their snack bars, what everyone is putting on. Why don't you do it? That is why I say to you that I feel that you have an allergy which the Left traditionally did not have against the institutions of local government. It is not the municipal councils, Minister, to draw up resolutions of support to the Nicaraguan people, as was the case in the 1980s. After all, today they should draw up resolutions of support to the Venezuelan people, who are affected by Maduro's authoritarian policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u82	For Maduro?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u83	Responding to the people. The people are oppressed by Mr. Madour, Mr. Javarra. The people are oppressed. These protesters, of the people, are who murders the streets.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u84	Oh, okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u85	But the essence of self-government is to support citizens. There are serious proposals in our question. We are putting forward proposals today to make better use of the staff resources of each municipal council, through the arrangements we propose. Proposals to increase funding and return due. And these proposals are called upon to put them in dialogue. And don't ignore the institutions and their representatives, because when the institutionalised dialogue in society stops, when a ministry's political leadership stops talking to each industry's institutional representatives, then you know what's going on? It does not change the institutional representatives of the industry, usually the Minister changes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u86	We are on our way to George Georgios Georganta, Member of the New Democracy of the Kilkis Prefecture. Here, Mr Georgioda, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, if you look at the legal work and the interventions of the Ministry of Interior in recent months, you will see that the big issue for the country is cleaning services, it is the question of municipal contractors, which is how, according to the government's declarations, we will have thirty thousand new civil servants. Some things are absolutely clear. And I would like to believe that this road, which the predecessor minister started, would be stopped by you. It is clear that Articles 102 and 103 of the Constitution - and this is how it happens to be next to each other - have economic and administrative self-sufficiency and, of course, the right and obligation to determine services of a reciprocity, such as cleaning services. On the basis of the current legislative framework, they may choose either fixed-term contractors or permanent staff, without any prohibition on payroll services. This is by order since May 2016, as responsibility for these services and ultimately the cost, which is to the citizens, is taken over by the municipal council and the mayor. If a mayor and a municipal council decide that he wants permanent staff somewhere - without any prohibition, for it is an exception to the bans on these recruitments - he can do so without anyone banning him. So without any need, some request, some intervention to the Government, to resolve a matter that operated by the local authorities themselves, you come and intervene with your continuous initiatives and extend the time of some contractors by the end of 2017. We have told you here many times that such an initiative is completely unconstitutional, it will create many issues, it will entangle the workers in a expectation of perseverance, but it cannot, on the basis of the constitutional framework, be served. It will create issues in municipalities, which will be invited to pay a lot of money in return services and increase municipal fees, as they did. It will create a sense of injustice to workers who, at the time of resignation, were not the contractors who provided their services. And the contradictory will be created, to have supposedly met needs in municipalities, which have never been requested and which have a seasonal, real character, and we can understand this in island municipalities or elsewhere, where other needs are in summer and other needs are in winter. The Court of Auditors' tiles are coming and say it goes without saying that these costs cannot be justified and paid. The civil courts are coming. They also say, of course, that respecting the constitutional commitments is beyond any legislative initiative of your own, any law, which, in any case, within its own content and its text is said to be by way of derogation of any general and specific provision. It's the favorite way you want to legislate. And you insist on that. The provision, which says that fixed-term contracts are forbidden to become indefinite, do you not know it? In fact, the mayors must be respected by all of us, because they are constitutionally bound up with their role, status and function and do not have the case, as now, to be called upon to disciplinary councils mayors, who observe the Constitution, the Constitution which is obliged to observe it, the Constitution which even the judges are obliged to observe under a specific provision of the Constitution, which states that when a provision of law is contrary to the Constitution, they do not have to comply with it. I really cannot understand this obsession, this obsession, but only with one answer. The answer is that, because there is no other stock of populism, no other stock of extremism, you think that this is how you split the workers to talk about good left and bad right. Finally, the workers, who cannot be paid, on your own initiatives and on your own responsibilities, are this involvement that they have. We also have municipal councils lately, to which the sums have been charged, illegally following your pressure and have decided to pay for them. Finally, because the warrants were not considered, all these amounts have been charged to the members of the municipal councils. Minister, if you really want to meet certain needs, which have a duration of not a certain period of time, but to meet standing and lasting needs, you should declare permanent positions, as foreseen by the relevant laws, from the relevant provisions through the AACC, so that everyone who is today as contractors and all our citizens would like to participate in such a tender. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Otherwise, indeed, it is time and again that this obsession with the violation of the Constitution and the relevant provisions makes you accountable, not only to society and to Greek citizens, but also to the workers themselves, whom you have captured. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr. Georganta. The floor is now held by Ms Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou, MP in Athens, New Democracy, for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Skourletis, as SYRIZA spokesman for the day of opposition of SYRIZA, you were the first voice to defend his whole communiqué "Honey comes", the "Thessaloniki Program", the promises of 12 billion euros of benefits. We all know the result of all this rhetoric. After the choice of the Greek people, who were in despair, the result is that you managed to dismantle the Greek economy. Instead of 12 billion euros, we have EUR 12.6 billion new measures, eight and a half times more than 'e-mail Hardouvel', which you have been so critical of for days of opposition, a third memorandum costing 100 billion in the country and now a fourth memorandum, which has EUR 3.6 billion new measures, pension cuts, tax cuts and no money for the Greek economy. But it seems that your role as Minister is now - you are now in charge, it is obvious - to dismantle local government, because that is what you systematically do. In fact, you've put it in your sights and hit on three things. You take her money, take her staff and take her responsibilities. So what's left of it? Nothing. I'm starting to deepen up, and I'm specific, as far as the finances are concerned. Of course, you did not start this effort, I confess. This attempt began, with the famous - and I think first or second - legislative act - which you would never do and I am talking about the days of Varoufakiada - when you wiped off the cash available to the entire Greek public and attacked the rabies. You also took the cash available to the municipalities, to prolong a negotiation, the first "heroic" negotiation, where Mr Varoufakis testified the theory of games and ended us on the edge of the cliff, before a Grexit. It led us to have closed banks and capital controls, "which would leave after two days," and I note that we have them for two years, without any prospect. So you took the money from them after you wiped out the cash. One looks at the 2017 budget and sees, of course, that it is the lowest in recent years. There is no debate about the newly retained and when these will be attributed. As the main rapporteur, Mr Vorides, has said, you have dismantled the structures, which have served exactly what you are defending, the weak, that is, those who will be affected by the reduction in pensions and the reduction in tax, which you will vote on on on. And if the municipalities could find money from somewhere else, for example from the exploitation of the beaches, you would destroy that, because in the forest map bill you have changed the way this process is being done, you have anticipated a joint ministerial decision, which wants another ministry and becomes heavier. Nothing has happened here, and I am laughing at it, because I have come here today prepared to speak on proposals, for example, for smart cities and how IT systems could help municipalities, promote democracy and many such magnificent projects. And you have announced that there will be an electronic system for the auction in relation to the beaches. Meanwhile, you've lost so much contact with reality, you don't know it's in May. When will all this and the competitions be? The electronic system of development law has not yet been established. What you announced about the extrajudicial compromise? Who's gonna fix all these systems? Can I tell you something? They're made. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll take the time of my dentistry, Mr. President. Go ahead and make these systems. Who's gonna work? Because, as I said before, you have not only dismantled the municipality's finances, you are also dismantling the staff. Who's gonna work this? I had visited recently - in winter - for party reasons, the Municipality of Mykonos. I was told by the exceptional Mayor of Mykonos that he had a man with a computer, which Mr. Pappas, the Minister responsible, decided to distract him and take him to his office. With the new scheme, therefore, mobility, which you have inaugurated, you are taking whoever you want and not even ask the mayor - since there is a specific criterion of positions that are met - for the needs he has. Why? Because, as my fellow Members have said, you completely despise the local government and the servants of it and the personal pay regime and the way in which you treat them. In local government, which I have had the great honour of serving as vice mayor of the city of Ioannina, why do you think 'the complaints to the mayor'? Because they are the closest people to serve the everyday life of the citizens. The people you see will solve your problems. And you only want to hear those of these people who believe that they agree with you ideologically, politically or come from your own party mechanism. I have said many times that the destruction and dismantling that you are causing in all areas - you are not unique in this in the government, Minister, all your ministers are doing this systematically, such as education, health, you have this area - because of your idealism and your inability. This conclusion of the committee, which saw the light of publicity created a triumph in local government and frankly, I look forward to hearing from us in particular what you are going to do in relation to it. Because your ideoscopy and inability have the same effect consistently. The result is destruction in any area you touch. And what is sincerely annoying me sometimes is the justification you are putting forward. You are now ready to vote on the fourth memorandum, the pension cuts, the tax reduction. Every red line anyone had ever shown. I have categorised the explanations you give yourself, but also publicly, that you will vote 'yes' in all of this in a few days. There are three scenarios. One is denial. "No, it's not like that. It's raw lies. It is not so." Just deny what happens, which is happening. That's the one script. The other scenario is the absolutely ridiculous one. I must say to you that I heard yesterday in a public debate, which I had with the SYRIZA Member, Mr Karakostas, who, when we told her that every red line has been broken, for example Mr Tsakalotou said about taxfree - to which you also criticised, Minister - brought the following example: 'If a child goes to school and does not take a test and goes back home and said 'I will not go back to school again, why did I not write well in the test', what will you do? Will you get it out of school?" This responded when we asked if the Minister should resign because the tax is reduced. 'No' - it says - 'Let him try again'. Who's paying for the failure account? The Greek people. That was the accusation of ridiculous. Lies, denial, ridiculous. Of course, there is the third category: you're swinging the finger. "They are the former or someone else's fault." That tactic you have used, too, Minister. It was the lenders - apologies, the institutions - who were the 'busies' of interests, but you finally agreed on everything that the institutions put on the table and all that will be voted on as a matter of fact. I am therefore looking forward to seeing whether you have changed your explanation and, in any case, give some specific answers to bring about calmness and stability and a seriousness again in this very important area of local government, which is the closest to man and which we all owe to all the parties and all the parties to respect and honor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mrs Asmakopoulou. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, thirty two students and students and four teachers from the Gymnasia Glaukis and Smintis Xanthis. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Let's tell the students that they're following a parliamentary control procedure. It's one of the two functions the House has. One is to vote for laws - after having discussed them before - and the other is to exercise control by Members of the government. Today we are discussing a topical question from the New Democracy on the question of local government. The timely question is being raised at the outset by the Members who are asking questions from the New Democracy. Mr Konstantinos Karagkounis, Member of the Eotolokarnania Parliament, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr President. I'll use my dentistry as well. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have the feeling that the topical question of the New Democracy, as well as the very good positions of all colleagues, is the most eloquent way of showing the nakedness of your policy in the field of self-government, the way you understand the function and, in particular, the deception of your institution, which you are displaying on every legislative initiative and every act of yours. Unfortunately, with your policy and your decisions, you have made the municipalities to be spectators and civics of the central government. Your aim should have been for the municipalities and regions to have an incentive to bring investments in their area and not to prevent them, as is now the case, and to attract a permanent population to their regions so that they can increase both their resources and their sustainability. Now, of course, what permanent population? I have the feeling that with the SYRIZA Government the only young man who will finally stay in the country will be Mr. Tsipras. Mr Minister, instead of seeing local government as a lever for development for the country and for the economy, you are putting so many obstacles and stumbling blocks that you have unfortunately become a brake. The honourable Members have asked you very specific questions which demonstrate what your real intentions for local government are. Because in the dialogue that you have started with the municipalities for the legislation you want to bring, you are doing what you have always done: promote only what is of interest and serves your government policy and your micro-participatory purposes and the big ones, the real problems faced by the municipalities are not of interest or concern. And that's something our rapporteur, Makis Vorides, told you earlier. The CCT has set you a number of issues. And instead of actually getting into the conversation, all you're interested in is changing the electoral law, maybe you can save everything you can in the next self-government election. You did it last year and with the electoral law. The CEDEFOP has tabled specific proposals and not only have you examined them, but you have also demonstrated that you have ignored them. And indeed, you only care if there were cell phones or not in the Chamber. You have announced the change of the 'CALL' without saying exactly what you want to do and above all without informing the relevant institutions. You walk around in your various friendly municipalities to have dialogue and show generalities. When will you inform the municipalities in particular? Call on them to inform them and, above all, tell them - because that is the very basic - how much this reform costs. Because you know, Minister, that any reform has a backwards and a cost. How much does it cost and what exactly do you want to do? Unless you think that the problems of municipalities are condensed and exhausted only on the issue of mere proportionality. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] All you do is that where it is convenient for you to transfer obligations and responsibilities to the OTAs, which, of course, you as central administration are unable to fulfil, without giving corresponding resources and staff. Where are the financial resources that you promised? Last year - if I'm not mistaken, confirm it to us - you cut EUR 214 million from local government. Of course, I am not talking about the EUR 500 million of the EDP. These have disappeared to go to the famous surplus. We are saying this clearly as a New Democracy: give back the money you have retained throughout the entire period that the municipalities deserve, but above all the market itself. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I will also use my dentistry, Madam President. We have asked you and we ask you - the rapporteur and all the previous Members have said so - about the funds that are vital to the municipalities and which have until last year been provided with a regulation. Tell us in particular: Will you return them and when? Didn't you say when the previous government - Mr. Vorides mentioned it - delayed even for a while the payment of a allowance? Didn't you cry everywhere in the House in the public debate? To understand, in one of my own municipalities of my region, which is one of the largest municipalities in the Municipality of Agrinio, you have been owed EUR 2 million since last year. These are necessary money to make the municipality viable and to cover obligations. So you will have to answer what you will do specifically with the return of resources. I will give you an example which, of course, has also seen the light of publicity, which concerns the Sikarian Foundation, concerns people with disabilities, who are a more sensitive social group. The staff, if I'm not mistaken, from Easter, are on work. You are not paying them, Minister - and it is not just about you, but also about Mrs Fotou - because you are simply collecting - as you have said - a surplus of hypocrisy and nothing else. And don't tell me that this will be covered by the region, which does make some friendly efforts, but it only concerns twenty-four people, while there are two hundred workers. So let's see what your sensitivity is. Show it. Another important issue that has been raised and the previous ones have to do with the institutional framework for the tender of projects. You went with legislation last year, within the 15th century and without any consultation, without any dialogue, you surprised everyone and especially the workers in the municipalities. You have changed the whole institutional framework, you have set up a lousy bureaucratic system, you have made the procedures difficult, and you have unfortunately made the tender of projects almost impossible. You said you'd get the electronic platform ready on May 1st. You have nothing ready and it is practically impossible for any project to proceed. The most important thing is that the studies do not go any further so that the ESDP projects can be matured, which must be absorbed by the ESRB. Otherwise there can be no maturation unless the studies go ahead. Of course, the studies don't go any further, because you have nothing ready. There is alalum and non-existence and it cannot run and no ESDP project. When we have been accusing you for so long and called on you to close the evaluation, Minister, it was precisely for that reason. Because the delays have also had negative effects in general on the economy and on the Community funds that should have been taken over, and we will now be discussing them from September to September. Let's see what happens. So, actually, what did you do? You did a hole in the water. You loaded us another memorial and everything's gone back. You've blocked the municipalities and you're taking on so-called achievements in the NRP. And what are you talking about? Since you do not have any money to fund the current projects or, of course, not to do the bridge projects, so that the previous ones will not be lost. You know that, Minister - and if you don't know it, let us tell you - that all the contractors in Greece have ceased their work, because there is no funding. And then we're talking about developing and accelerating the ESDP. You have been late three years, the programme has gone back, you have undermined - as I have told you - the procedures for the development of the studies, you have surprised the services that will be called upon to implement these new procedures and nothing is ready and nothing is happening and nothing is happening. And let us legislate such conditions for participation in the competition committees, which make their formation impossible. Go to an island, you ask there are five, six engineers to set up the competition committee and there is not one on the island. Go on, there's hardly a mechanic! And now we're saying there can be a competition. Another issue that we have raised is the issue of poverty structures - Mace Voridis said so earlier - which concerns over eight hundred unpaid workers and, of course, a right that is lost for eighteen thousand beneficiaries. We expect to see when it will be financed by the MAGP, but you did not get any benefits for the "bridge", so that these people can take, benefit, but also the workers will not lose their jobs. Of course, there is also the question of the certainty of this provision that you brought last year and you banned a heretic retired person from taking a responsibility, even if unpaid. In other words, such a hereditary may be appointed vice mayor and should cease the retirement, even if he wishes to offer the services of the unpaid person, as defined. Well, these are incomprehensible things, and I wonder why you don't solve them. Tell us when you'll solve them. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Last issue is the issue of the mobility of Ottawa officials. The previous speakers have said so. In order to serve your own people - because this is actually the case - you are allowing officials to move from the municipalities without the approval and without the consent of the municipality. And we better now talk about a municipality with five hundred employees. But, in mountain municipalities, islands, where the workers are few, to leave the workers without knowing anything about the mayor and to go out to several mayors from remote islands and say that I am alone or I am alone - the mayor - to do everyone's job, you understand that this gives the image of a third-world country. Well, finish this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u92	Finish it, Mr. Carraguni.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u93	I sum up, Madam President. I used my dentistry as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u94	Secondary time's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u95	And in the area of self-government, as everywhere, Minister, you are dealing with and legislating on the basis of your own small or large interests. You don't care about the operation of the municipalities. You don't care to support the municipalities. All you care about is how to support your party state and your own people. That's why local government does what the vast majority of citizens do, it's just turning your back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u96	Mrs Vulture now has the floor for three minutes for protology and two more for her denology. Will you use your dentistry, Mrs. Vulturis?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u97	Yes, Madam President. I'm gonna use my dentistry. Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, from the very topical question we have tabled with the backdrop that the previous speakers have mentioned, on the subject of local government, the municipalities, that is, local societies, namely Greece, there are many problems, which are identified and we are, of course, waiting for some answers. However, here, there is one issue, Minister. You have to do a five-year job! You need to see how these issues are solved. Because the fact that you were taken by the previous "game" of yours, namely PPC - and you are unhappy - does not mean that you will abandon to its fate the local government and the municipalities. If you don't like the new game, you can say it. You can do that, too. You can go to the Prime Minister and tell him "You know, I don't like the new game you gave me, you gave me before the Ministry of Labour, I said I'm going to take the basic salary of EUR 751, you didn't leave me, you took it from me. After you gave me PPC, you said you'd keep it under public control, now comes and sells 17% of TIADED, will stay 34%, and PPC goes." Well, that's not how it works. That's how all the municipalities will disappear, the whole country. And instead, you are circulating throughout Greece and traveling from Corfu the day before yesterday, you found the Anti-Population and its Leader. You're not doing anything else! In other words, instead of sitting here and solving these problems, you go there and say that we lack basic economic education. You who know good arithmetic if we sell 17% of PPC from the TIAD how much it stays in the state. Let's see how long she's staying? Is more than 34% left? So that's it. And because before you had a fight with Mr. Pitsorla, now I'll let you know that he has a new management of the TIAD. Are you gonna swear them too? We don't know we're waiting to see why there's a proclamation for PPC. You find and have called the Chief of Staff of the "Greek populist". You're not telling me: Who's a vulgar populist? Is he the one who says his views every time and they go hand in hand with reality or the one who told your own lies before the 2015 elections? You remember what you yourself said, you were a personal representative, and the colleague said: HISPIA will immediately be abolished, the salary will be EUR 751. You said on a show in 2015 that if you hadn't been intervening Easter in 2015, you would have brought the law, but it broke through the Easter desert of 2015 -- and since then there have been two more Easter - and you haven't brought the law on the wages of EUR 751 or collective agreements. How much Easter is going to pass? So you must be much more careful when you talk, because there are your things here. I would remind you that you said: "On Monday, April 20, 2015, legislation will be put in place to restore the minimum wage..." Excuse me, who's a vulgar populist? Should you not watch your words on these matters? Didn't you swear that PPC's publicity will be maintained? You signed the FEK in May 2016, when you said that these privatisations are meaningless, they are not within the planning of the government and so forth. Look, you who have said all these things seem to be no longer able and have trouble managing local government. You are in dissatisfaction with the municipalities and the CEDEFOP and, of course, with this issue - because I do not have time to do so - I have told you that the history of the future will once be dealt with as to how this death trap was set up for the Greek people with all these lies. I would ask the Secretariat to receive a "todied" with your lies. It's a reversal, we can't record it all. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Sophia Vultesis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As to how you deal with local government, do you remember what you were saying in the famous programme of Thessaloniki, which Mr. Tsipras said about self-government with responsibilities and resources and called for the money to be taken from the government, but which was abolished, so the mayors have become Mr. Fuchtel's officers? Where's Mr. Fuchelle now? Is she on the move? Do you meet him? Where is he? You said you would also build a development bank for the municipalities that you would give them low-interest loans and issue special project bonds for self-government. Look, because now on December 1, 2016, the last time you went to the CEN, you said it would be this last year with a reduction in local self-government expenditure and because all your red lines are no longer there, and because you said that in 2014 and in 2016, we all understand that in the end your only red line is that there are no red lines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u98	Thank you. Mr. Fotillas has the floor. Come on, Mr. Fotella, you have the floor for three minutes and two for your second. Are you going to use it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u99	I will compact the two positions, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the field of local government, the SYRIZA Government has also created more problems than solved. Even greater reduction in funding, even less powers in municipalities and regions, even more contractors and more provisions of an anti-constitutional nature are trying to get through to suit its own children by putting mayors in a difficult position. Of course, all this with incomplete dialogue with the institutions of local government. Especially in the case of the mayors, who are the choice of the Greek people, you have shown an unprecedented disdain to discuss with them. A climax of your policy is the provision on simple proportional to the local government that you want to vote, as you leak, as if any problems of self-government are focused on the electoral system and if we change it, the problems will be solved automatically. The point is, obviously, you know that you will not manage to elect your own mayors and mayors. And how else can it be done with the tragic policy of cutbacks that you are applying? So you thought to do simple analogues to force the mayors to cooperate with you and so control them without even having the majority. This is your so-called democracy. That's how much it cuts you, so much design range you've got! In fact, however, all you will achieve is to shorten the area of self-government even further. Legislation and rule solely on your stay in power at all costs and "land fire mixed" from there on. I would like to insist on two specific issues where your unscrupulous policy is embodied in local government. The first concerns the problems arising from the resolution of August 2016 of L.4412 on public works, supplies and services contracts. The whole of the municipalities went ahead with the procedures to implement, as they had to, the provisions that have direct effect. But you know very well that the majority of municipalities are unable to proceed with the procedures, because this law is incomprehensible with too many references. It creates confusion in the articles applicable to contracts and there are excesses, such as in the cases of direct awards, which, instead of improving and facilitating the process, creates demonstrable and time-consuming situations, thus literally paralyzing the services of the municipalities and cannot continue to be awarded in progress. The most impracticable provision of the law for small municipalities is in Article 221(8), where it stipulates that the tenders for projects with the most advantageous price, i.e. concise and open competitions of up to one million, are carried out by three technical staff of the Contracting Authority. Obviously no one has asked whether all contracting authorities have three technical staff and three substitutes for the establishment of the tendering body. Classic case of couch legit! There are municipalities that have only one engineer, one TE engineer, and in some cases even this one you want to post him to other services. And I wonder how the municipality will make the auctions: Will it ask engineers from the regions, or will it make a commitment to do so? If your intentions were to create a homogeneous legislative framework that would reduce time, documents and at the same time highlight full transparency, we would be on your side in order to achieve your best efforts. The services of the relevant ministries, however, and the services of the municipalities, do not currently have the readiness and the necessary know-how to coordinate and implement the provisions of Law 4412. What actions and what changes, then, have you made to adequately inform the services of the municipalities, but also the ministries and to implement this law to solve the problems of the Ottawas and to bring about the desired results? What is more, I would like to ask for clarifications is for municipal kindergartens. They are hosted today by thousands of preschool children who are attending pedagogical programs under the supervision of skilled scientific staff. We are aware that the Minister for Education, Mr Gavroglou, wants to have compulsory incorporation into public education, without any dialogue with either the workers, nor with local government as a whole. Because the institution of municipal school stations is generally a successful structure for local self-government focused on the child and its psychosomatic development, we would like to have the government's position on its intentions in the educational structures of the municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u100	Thank you for the time, Mr. Fofila. Minister, would you like to speak now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u101	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u102	Will you make use of all twenty minutes where the protology is?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u103	How long do I have?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u104	The protology is twenty minutes, the denology is ten minutes and then it's five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u105	My first talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u106	Mr Panos Skourletis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u107	Ladies and gentlemen, I was most moved by the report by the gentlemen from New Democracy at the time I was a representative of the press, so it reminded me of old days. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u108	"Where are you young enough to show that I would be someone else"!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u109	Ladies and gentlemen, you have referred in particular, Mr Vorides, to the new generation of detainees. This new generation of prisoners do you know that it has your name, New Democracy and PASOK? Don't be afraid, you don't all have the burden of responsibility. I don't know if you were in New Democracy at the time. You were in another party, then you went. So that is what you call a new generation of detainees is exactly 60% of the cuts made, based on your own days, on your own legislation. So you have now spoken of something that was already known, that the eighth and last dose of the first generation of detainees would be given, as was the case last year. There was no other cost cut from our Government towards the OTAs and you know it well. You also hide from this: that they have been approved precisely in order to make it easier for the municipalities to pay their dues. The sum of 326 million has been approved. And a lot of them have already begun and been absorbed. Furthermore, because these expenditures had a certain time-limit, which was at the end of April last year, we voted for it - and I think you were a parliamentary representative - in a previous bill by the Ministry of Interior on the use of the money of the AXIA programme and a small amount of 30 million, cumulatively 94 in total, again for the payment of outstanding obligations, which have arisen from final judgments at the expense of the municipalities. Aren't those amounts? Aren't the amounts of 2,2 billion launched by the NSRP for the implementation of projects in the municipalities? Are these out of material, off the agenda? In any case, you know very well that the money you have cut from self-government comes from your own memorial laws and from your own medium-term. So, I would expect, when you're out and referred, at least, to be accompanied by an elementary self-critic. But it seems that I'm naive to it. You referred to mobility issues. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, the new Mobility Act has not been implemented. It has not been implemented and you know it well. You are referring to and criticising, you are talking about examples of mobility, without applying because he has some conditions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u110	So it won't apply?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u111	He's got some conditions. First of all, the relevant electronic platform must be built and, above all, must be deposited by ministries, public bodies and municipalities with their new establishments. And it is precisely on the basis of depositing these organograms which reflect new needs, that there should be an intransigent process, which will not be based on everyone's acquaintances and will address the issue of mobility. So, through this rational way, we will be given the need, through the deposit of the new organograms, to see what new needs are and to be able to address the issue of subsidizing the municipalities as well. In this law, I would remind you that there are also safeguards provided for. If, for example, a particular service is not covered by 60% - if I am not mistaken - the organic positions...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u112	It's 65% on the little ones.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u113	Yeah, it's 65%. If the organic positions are not covered by 65%, this law will not be implemented. There's this insurance policy, too. Because you spoke about the small municipalities, I would mention and remind you that only three days ago we approved the recruitment of eighty-two permanent officials for small island municipalities. On the contrary, do you know what you were up to? At the moment we are getting the results of the 2009 SAP law and if you look where these people are intended, you will understand why today three of the MPs are from 2nd Athens. It is in the municipalities of 2nd Athens, ignoring any needs and serving purely customer relations with specific municipalities. So that was the mapping of real needs. But in this way you had learned to meet the vital needs of local government. You referred to the issues of beaches. Do you not know that on 11 April this amendment was passed, which, for three years, enables the municipalities to make the auctions and that from day to day - I hope this week - will come out? For three years, not every year, like you did. So it clears the scenery. However, criticism. Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u114	But the NSA hasn't come out until mid-May.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u115	Let go of that now! You didn't take her off the C.I.A. and she went through the end of May and then the Treasury did it. Don't give up on that. Talk to the people of local government. Let us know about these issues before you come here and make a review which is inexpensive. And it's not taxed. There's no tax free as you know. It's free.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u116	You guys taxed the lies? Did you pay for the lies?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u117	Anyway. You are talking about the new system of contracts. Are you interested in having a transparent and inconsistent way, or do you want to go to the old way of awarding public contracts, where there was a dissipation of public money and its fragmentation? Or wasn't there such phenomena in the municipalities? You're listening for the first time. Everything was well burned. And in the consciousness of the world, the municipalities acted impeccably. Are we now discovering these for the first time? Do you hear them for the first time from me? Because a question was raised about who lives and where. You also said about poverty structures. You know, very well, that four extensions have been made and funding has been guaranteed from national resources until we are in - and this has been launched at the moment - in the new period of the ESDP. Is it or isn't it? Having referred to the NRP and criticised, I would remind you that - what should we do? - during our own days Greece was first in absorption and has not been precedent. Yes or no?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u118	No, of course not.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u119	Yeah. That was the first. And you're questioning that? You pro-Europeans don't read the Commission's announcements? What's up, guys? Where are you staying? Europe is staying? Greece you're staying? Balkans are staying? Where are you staying now? Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u120	They love you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u121	I'll tell you about them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u122	They gave you the superstition, and now they love you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u123	Mrs Buddhism, since you referred to 'games' a moment ago, do you know what is deeply antisocial? Deep antisocial is with a law to break down within a day, in a bill, the minimum wage. That's what you did. You've criminalized yourself. So what you did at the expense of Greek society remembers the Greek people. The Greek people remember, 25% of this country's Gross National Product you took it from his pocket.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u124	You bring it back. Why don't you do that?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u125	You have developed unemployment, you have shut down businesses and you come to swing our fingers for PPC, because as you went bankrupt, you also charged PPC with 5 billion. Why 5 billion loans? For the goodness of whom? So that there is no connection between Crete and mainland Greece and that we can pay these amounts now to the YMOs? Why not develop on renewable energy? So Mrs. Ryku has been filed for the gas factory in Megalopolis, which was overpriced?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u126	Let go of the fairy tales!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u127	So these people don't forget them. He remembers them. But let us get back to local government.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u128	Leave the finger and keep PPC in public control.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u129	You're a fuss, as far as I can tell.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u130	Why don't you put the minimum wage and move the finger?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u131	Now are we going to have a dialogue with the Minister? How do you see that? Stop talking?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u132	Let me answer you. Will you deprive me of that right? But where do you live in North Korea now? Don't you want the Greek Parliament to have a dialogue? Where do you live now? Damn it! [[Applause]] In any case, you have referred, quite annoyed, and I understand that, in our proposal for a simple analogue. I fully understand that. You come up with a system which is deeply representative, genuinely democratic, and which unleashs the self-government establishment. So you don't want there to be a genuine representation of local connections. You want such a deforming electoral system to work, which does not exist anywhere in Europe. In the name of what governance and what democratic representation should 18%, 20%, 22% of the first Sunday take two thirds of the municipal council? I don't understand that. So since, Mr Varvitsiotis, you say that local government has no colors - quite rightly - their problems and their locality are not the most suitable ground for consensus, so that there can be compositions and partnerships? So, can local government not actually function on a mere analogue basis? How far from where? Where did you discover that thing? What traditional concept? Of course, because - and this was the only sincere and self-critical element that has been heard here today on your part - you have never, as a party, linked your name to any change. You have always defended the back lines, the conservative situation, to keep things the way they are. That's what you've always wanted in local government. That's what you want now. I would remind you, therefore, that the dialogue you mentioned has no precedent. Because since the middle of last year, both the CEDEFOP and the ELPE and scientific bodies have been involved in a process that we have, in fact, never seen before. And instead of appreciating this, you come and tell us: 'But what will happen, we will continue to have a dialogue?' Does it bother you? What do you want to stop him? And at some point, you put Mr. Patolis. To me, honestly, I am completely indifferent to his personal designs and ambitions. You'll solve them when you come and get the candidate for the Attica Region or the mayor of Athens, since he says he's interested. It's your problem. Make him, enjoy him, and be your face in self-government. Man really wants it. But why is it afflicting self-government? Why does he not stand up to the institutional role of the President of the CEDEFOP? Because dialogue in the first phase ended, a conclusion was reached which is a basis for discussion and instead of that you praise it and say that yes, here we are able to make a specific basis, a debate, you come and quit and say: 'When will we close this thing? What will happen?’ So what do you want? Do you want a controversy of this kind? Are you interested in local self-government based on the experience of implementing the "KALIKARATI" to acquire a new stepping-up? Are you interested in European experience? Are you interested in seeing in the difficult, indeed, budgetary conditions what we can do more, what can be its role in decentralised regional planning? Are you interested in the issue of competences or are you moving in this logic of the 'KALIKARAT' which, while establishing the hereditary region, gave powers to the decentralised ones, which effectively removed them from the hereditary self-government? Aren't these issues? Will we speak by categorising the various cases of the municipalities and their needs and see how we support them? Is the municipality of 2nd Athens the same as is the case of an island or mountain municipality or a rural municipality? Can everyone provide it all? How will we support the work of local government, given the subsistence that exists and the known limitations? There, then, needs to be a job. That's where they need proposals. But all of this is over and you're coming here and you're telling us that we refused to see the representatives of the CEDE, when seventy people came by singing at the Ministry, of which thirty were mayors of your space, along with their paradoxes, who each wanted to film their own reason to go to the municipality to show him. Is that how you have a dialogue? I accepted them to the office. Is that really the way you do it? This is a show.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u133	Maybe so. It's not terrible!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u134	Show is getting somewhere else. We also tabled proposals for the people who participate and show. And in any case, dialogue is continuing. We expect in-depth proposals and not general declarations, and from the association of regions, which has a different attitude. They met yesterday with the Prime Minister. The debate lasted three hours. She was constructive, honest. Problems have arisen. Nobody hid them. We didn't agree on everything. We have all understood, however, that if we want to go ahead with what we call the country's production reconstruction, we cannot keep a sterile refusal to everything or anything else, we may say in the first paragraph of the communication, change it in the second and third subparagraphs, not to understand what we say, as other institutions of government often do. And there is a difference between the regional union and the CEDEFOP. I'm telling you, because I imagine you're talking to people on one side and on the other. So if your opinion goes through, say something about them all, so that we can take advantage of this debate that has been opened in the next few days, which can indeed introduce us into a new era, a reform period which will not be closed or closed at the moment. There are no objective conditions to re-establish the map of local government. And that's why, as you have seen, we don't open up the issue of spatial planning. It would, in fact, be necessary to have a comfort of resources which we do not have. And only as an exception can we see it in some very, very few cases and at some point. However, there are other institutional issues that need to be addressed. I heard you say a long time ago about the people's democratic conception. What do you mean? You mean popular participation?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u135	Let me clarify. We mean the communist institutions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u136	Is local government not the most important place to express what we call'multi-party participation'? Does it bother you? What do you want? How do you understand the role of local government? That it's an executive strap of some decisions of a hydrocephalic model of governance? So, be the state here in Athens, the Ministerial Council and all others to perform? Is that what you want? Didn't we see that? Didn't he reach his limits? Should we not, at regional level, discover - something we never did - the concept of regional democratic planning? Won't that contribute?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u137	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u138	I believe that 'yes' means an agreement. If I've already broken one of you down, it means we're going well! It means we secure consent. Ladies and gentlemen, on these issues we must discuss and not try to create problems and play with people's agony. I'm referring to contractors. Are those mayors who will judge the constitutionality of a law? Because that sounded like it before. I'm talking about mayors. Does it not have the right, under the legislation in force, to abandon a mayor when he violates the legislation?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u139	No, of course not.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u140	He's got it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u141	Now you're revealing!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u142	Oh, no. You're a mandurist now!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u143	Don't all answer together. One, one you'll get the floor later.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u144	It is quite different to invoke a number of Commissioners' decisions. But there, I'm going to answer that there most of them have a different approach? So, as you know, this has to be judged at some point in the Court of Auditors' Plenary Session and this has to be fully respected. But not now invoke a number of people who are 'taliban' of your party and all they want to do is opposition to the government and do not, above all, honour their self-government role.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u145	He's not talimban.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u146	I see that we can get to know each other. In any case, we must be very careful in these issues concerning people and their wages and not play with the real needs of the world. And that, as you know, and we have said again, we are prepared to do all about the issue of contractors, although it is not about us today. This is an issue that you have created, and you have contributed to its creation. The size of contractors currently employed in the public sector, hospitals, OTAs, etc. is a Greek originality. Infringing what? And European legislation itself, which speaks of the abuse of the concept of the contract. So we have to have such a debate, which, first of all, is not offered in any case for cheap party impression. We're talking about workers, about needs, about human lives. Thank you for your attention, and I think we'll see you then.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, Minister. He's come to an agreement, he says, Mr. Gregorakos to start, because he has a coma. Mr. Javarra, do you agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u148	Of course, it's a coma.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u149	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the upper Western theory forty-three students and students and a professor from the Law School of Athens. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] To tell children only, because it is from the Athens School of Law, in which many of us have studied, that this is a parliamentary procedure. A party has submitted a topical question on the issue of local government, fourteen MPs from the New Democracy Party to the Minister of the Interior Mr. Skourletis, and so speak the fourteen questions, then the Minister, and now parliamentary representatives are starting. Mr Gregorakos is a parliamentary representative of the Democratic Independence. You have the floor, Mr Gregorako, for exactly six minutes, because you are in a hurry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u150	Because I've asked for a facilitation, I'll take all the time. I don't have any dentistry. Of course I'm in a hurry and I'm not breaking him, Madam President. Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, let us turn to the point directly. Mr. Skourletis, we have made our self-criticism and made our self-criticism. And we've been very trying to get you two years to do your self-criticism, but when we go to say something "correct it, we don't like it, we don't like it, it's not good, we don't talk about it" right behind this proposal, politically motivated. That's the difference. That you do not accept that there are trustworthy interlocutors who want to help in the right direction. So when I saw the question of New Democracy colleagues, I said it is painful enough, because I have also served in your Ministry of the Interior, for PASOK in particular, which has really brought major sectors to the public administration, but also to the local government and regional government, to come here today to discuss with you in the Greek Parliament at a time when there is no specific strategy for what you are going to do in local government. You have said a great deal today of what you said here, and I agree with a great deal. From that point on, though, you keep it to say it here. In practice, Minister, you are doing more. Indeed, you say that these days, and you have put it on the Internet, you will bring in what we will do with the new institutions of the decentralised state. You know, I'm in favour of decentralisation. And when I was in the Ministry of Interior in the New Democracy - PASOK government, of these invisible Samarovenes, you know that we have fought very great battles for transparency, we have done very great areas for you to come today and to find a very easy job and to govern more easily than us. We were obliged at that time to make areas, reforms, which have long wanted to be done. But we did, and we paid for what we did. Of course, you're talking about growth. We have been listening to growth for a long time, hopefully it will come to Greece at some point. Mr Skourletis, you have taken on board with the New Democracy colleagues for the thirty thousand recruitments you have announced. Do you think it's right that people, without getting into an APA procedure, hired without anything, without any criterion, and leave everyone else outside? There is no objection that we should declare thirty thousand posts with a specific plan, with specific criteria, qualified and through the AACC to take them. You know, when we were at the Ministry of Interior with Yannis Michalakis, we had searched - I don't know if you've been looking for it yet, tell us if you can in your second language, I'll be here of course - how many local authorities have. Tell us if you know them. Because I have to admit and make my self-criticism that we have tried very hard to find all these agencies in local government, but unfortunately we have found your reaction and we have not been able to move quickly on to local government reforms. I therefore believe, Minister, that you have said before, and you have moved your hand for the thirty thousand contractors - that you will not get into this process that the New Democracy did in 2004-2009 and charged the public with eight hundred and seventy-five thousand employees with Mr Pavlopoulou. Yeah, eight hundred seventy-five thousand recruits took place in five years. That's what the Ministry of Interior said on Michalaki - Gregoraku. But now, Minister, here, you are trying to get the OTAs into crisis, because you bet - and what you're doing - on a raw client state, because you don't like it. You're a prisoner, you want to raise the state. But the state - and I know you are an ideologist Marxist - that the state is counterproductive. In a Europe that is shaken by the economic crisis, we are trying to get others into the state, namely, to give some who do not produce and to reduce the sources from which the state can obtain revenue so that they can combat unemployment and the insurance system. But you, at the moment, are following a policy of heavy declarations that you will bring legislative initiatives, which we have not yet seen. We in PASOK and Democratic Association have fought as much as anyone else for decentralised self-government, first and second grades. We want self-government that is not the big hand of the central state and intervenes in local communities. Because local communities have accepted the role of local government as being in the positive direction. Yes, further steps need to be taken, and we need to give more powers to local government and regional government. But at this time when we are in local government, we cannot deprive each mayor and all directly elected representatives of the people. We therefore want to see a better, more democratic local government. Because it will escape the anxiety of the client state and maintenance state, which will never leave local structures and local communities free to develop. I therefore believe that, contrary to what you say, you are opposed to what is going on and you have not taken the slightest step in the past two years in the positive direction and we have seen a reform programme for municipalities and regions. We gave life and breath to a deceased institution of local government, when we received it and made two major areas, two major reforms, the "Kappistria" and the "Kalikrat". And because, Minister, there are some discussions that there is a chance that you might make a new mapping, possibly change the geographical boundaries of municipalities at the "Kalikrati", you should know that this could be done, Minister, but it could be done with very great consent. It's certain it didn't all happen right. It was a program that was implemented, it is very young, it is very fresh for Greece. Yes, we must discuss this with all the political forces and, if we agree, we must make these necessary changes to the 'KALIKARAT', which must be in the positive direction. To conclude, I would like to say that in the "Laws" of Plato there is an excellent saying, Minister, which says that in any city the law is subjected to and cancelled by the rulers, I see the destruction of the city very quickly. So don't be one of them, who'll have his hand destroy what was in local government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u151	We're coming back to the series of parties. Mr Javarras, the Parliamentary Representative of the New Republic, has the floor. Mr. Javarra, you have 12 minutes and six minutes. Will you use your dentistry too?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u152	I guess.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u153	I'll put eighteen minutes. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u154	Thank you very much, Madam President. You will allow me to congratulate the Bureau on the reasons it has devoted to the beginning of today's sitting, because this day is indeed an honour, when it comes to the great victory of the powers of light, the powers of the Republic, the forces of truth against the forces of fascism and Nazism, which, of course, represent lies and deep darkness. But, Minister, the big question, which is being asked today, is this: are we over with fascism? Today, can we say so many years later, in the course of history, which she was even told yesterday to celebrate another victory against the extreme political positions, a victory of the Enlightenment values against that very margin of political life, fuelled by lies and fraud? But have we here in Greece too finished with fascism? Or should all of us step up our efforts to see and realize that history, as the wise say, is nothing but an endless return of itself in another form? So who can deny today that today's face of fascism is populism? This populism, therefore, those who serve him do not provide useful service to the Republic, nor to society, nor to the truth, nor to the advance of this place. Those who try lies to create situations that are attractive to save votes and to give the impression that they have come to save this place, do not serve the Republic. After all, it is well known that the fundamental position of the ancient Romans "salus Patriae suprema lex esto", the suprema lex esto, is distorted by the suprema law to be the salvation of the country. This very motto Mussolini, of left-wing origin, turned it and said "salus populi suprema lex esto". So fascism and populism and their roots, as well as their function and message, which they give, and especially the way in which they erod democratic institutions, have an absolute identity and a subcutaneous relationship. That is why - you will now allow me to come to you - when I heard you say that you were moved to remind you of your position as a spokesman for your party at the time when it was opposition, I sincerely want to tell you that I felt this thrill. Do you know why? Because I had thought of the poet's lyrics "Where are you, young man, who you would show me I would become someone else". Why don't you tell me that you, the current Minister of the SYRIZA Government, are feeling comfortable in the Minister's costume when you try to remember what you said to the Greek people at those beautiful, racing times that your party experienced, trying to get the power and which, in the end, succeeded by the deceiving of the Greek people, because everyone today at least 90%, from what the polls show, has condemned you and everyone is saying that you have cheated on them. How, then, do you come here in response to our question and tell us in this sense that 'Masters I do not understand what local government you are addressing, what municipalities are you talking about'? And you are referring to us who are doing nothing but reminding you of what the Prime Minister said from this step, by addressing us as Chief of Officerial Response in Parliament. "We," he said, "Every word from this country's Constitution." We have done nothing today but to tell you - you will of course have forgotten or at least you will have noticed it before the very great completeness and self-sufficiency that you feel as holders of power - that you have at least ignored the value - I would say more clearly - of the provision of Article 102 of the Constitution. This is what we are talking about, namely that local government, which has the presumption of the administration of local affairs, is entitled to administrative and financial autonomy. This is the local government we are talking about today and we are addressing this question rather than the question, as the previous President-in-Office said, in your government. It is precisely because you are obliged under the Constitution to secure the resources, but also the legislative, regulatory and budgetary means necessary, to fulfil local self-government, that is, the municipalities of the country, its mission and the powers provided for by the law and the Constitution. And now you tell us, are you proud in the two and a half years that your government is running this place, exercising legality, as you told us before in the municipalities? Are you satisfied with the work you have done in this direction? So, have you assured the municipalities all the resources necessary to enable the mayors to do their job today, to fulfil their duties, to carry out their duties? Uh, no, you can't claim that. This is where our criticism is good and decent, because we are talking about a common place that everyone knows about. These people know about it, the helpless and the quarrels who are waiting for vain at the door of their home to come to the city clerk to fulfil the program "Help at home". They were not the ones who joined a bridge to have the funding required. And, of course, those other people who expect missions and responsibilities of local government to be fulfilled, such as water, such as waste collection. There are huge problems with Corfu, huge problems with the Ionian islands, huge problems with us at the Tower of Ilias, and unfortunately we have not seen a decisive intervention to date. On the contrary, what we see is that you come here to the Step of the House and to any other step you can take and ask for suggestions. But, to God, from which Constitution - of which every word you were saying - does it appear that the government is compiling proposals and then comparing them to the best? The government does not accept the proposals of others. The government has been instructed - and this is the content of the mandate you have given from the Greek people - to implement the programme with which you were elected and with which you took the authority. So talk to us. The suggestions of our own, let them go. That's another job. This concerns us and the relationship we have with the people, it is not about the relationship we have with Parliament with you and the government. That is the point of parliamentary democracy. And that is why I insist and I will insist on telling you, between the New Democracy and you, either as SYRIZA or as a government, there can be no understanding, because we do not give the same content to the same words. The worst thing, however, is that we do not feel as democratic, with the same sensitivity as the 1975 Constitution. Why do you consider this Constitution and deal with it as a declaration of principle, a declaration of decency, a declaration of rights, which we have seen in other reports since the American Revolution so far? What escapes you, however, is that these declarations were made by a Constitution, so that the government in question is obliged to apply them, protect rights, defend individual freedoms. But above all, as I say and repeat, on the basis of Article 102 of the Constitution, you are obliged to protect the municipalities. That's not what you're doing. If we really did move here to ask this question today, and we did not ask it a simple question, it is because CENE itself, the people who represent our municipalities have complained not only once, but also here that they are represented in the debates when bodies are being heard in the committees of the bills. Here again, then, there are the same complaints. Let me tell you something very serious, which you have tried to pass in a very skinful way. You said that No 4440/2016 on mobility within the public sector has not been implemented and since it has not been implemented, it is premature to ask you about the lack of mountain or island municipalities by the staff. However, what you will obviously have no reason to say is that Article 6 of this legislation provides that the secondment and transfer are carried out by the sole and sole decision of the host institution, without having any power to object to this movement between the municipality and any other public body of the public, or any other body of origin, which in this case is the municipality. So, do not blame us for bringing this particular question before us early, because whenever you decide - and that is why you do not do so, because you have other problems - to apply this piece of legislation to which we have strongly criticised, this provision of Article 6 will be applied and that is exactly what we have previously criticised you. In conclusion, Minister, I would like to tell you this. There are no two Greeks in this country, there are no two peoples in this country. In this country, there is a sovereign people, who each time elections are held, distributes roles and responsibilities and gave you the privilege of governance. And, as I said before, governance means making decisions. To date, however, for the only thing you have been convinced of is that you are completely incompetent, totally unprepared, completely inadequate to make good decisions, decisions that will make the people out of the difficulty that they are living, the intent people from the difficulty of living, and decisions that will make this Republic work, will give a new breath, as you have promised, to the municipalities. That is what we want from you to see, and that is what we require. Otherwise, in conclusion, I will agree with the professor, who wrote a very interesting article two days ago, Manos Stefanidis, left, who in the interview he gave the most characteristic truth I have heard in recent times: "If it is once the left has ruled this place, it was when there was opposition. For now it is fully, but completely incompetent and weak to rule the country." You must take this into account, because I fear that there will be a cause for both you and the place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u155	Thank you. Now, for six minutes, Mr Ballis, SYRIZA MP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u156	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I unfortunately do not know Latin. So, I'm just going to speak Greek and say my views.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u157	It doesn't hurt. It's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u158	Maybe it's good sometimes. So I will simply say to Greek that now that it seems that the right and left fascism can no longer sell and move, we have discovered a new candy: everything that does not agree with us to baptize it populism, no matter what it includes as populism and from where it comes. Lacism is the defence of social rights, populism is to want to try for the best destiny of the poorest social strata, populism is, as I have said before, anything that does not agree with our own policy thinking and opinion. But it's not like that. Because there have also been references to whether we can say that we have come to an end with fascism, let me also have a simple thought. I would like to say that with fascism we can say that we will come to an end when those in their hands have the responsibility for moving the societies will understand that what we need to promote is social needs and not the needs of established interests. But let us go to the subject of today's debate. I heard seven speakers from the New Democracy. Strangely enough, no speaker has heard that the permanent request 'Make an election and leave' is repeated. Perhaps because you have realised that by closing the second assessment your request does not make any sense. The country will return to normality in all areas and, of course, in the area we are discussing today, in the organisation and functioning of local government. I have also heard from the spokesmen of the New Democracy - most of whom, not all - say that the electoral system is no longer a major one in local government, which you want to bring with your reform. While it says that it is not major, it insists that it raises this issue and only stays on it, setting up a setting of such a scene that it can convince us that this debate on local government - and if I am not mistaken for the second time in about a month and a half on your own initiative - is something like a friendly node to your own friendly forces of self-government for their own and your own reasons. It's not a big election system. We've said that too. There are many other issues that have to do with the reform that we want to promote in local government, and that is especially what you want to avoid. That is why you choose to discuss the electoral system. Perhaps it is disturbing to discuss the institutions and procedures that will bring democracy into the way that self-government operates, to discuss the issues of intra-democratic decentralisation, to discuss in particular the institutions that will bring the citizen closer to the process and the decision-making process. The New Democracy also focused on the speeches of its MPs and local government finances. I also heard the statement 'Give self-government powers to go well'. You forget that in the period 2010-2013, two hundred new powers were transferred to the municipalities, three hundred fifty new responsibilities, but without the transfer of the corresponding resources. So who is responsible for the economic suffocation to which it has been driven - not by accident - local self-government? Your choices, your governments, I mean, your policy. I would also remind you in detail - and the Minister told you in detail - that in this year alone, there are several millions that have been granted additionally to local government: EUR 6 246 000, in the region for the transport of pupils EUR 38 million, for school expenses, for the repayment of commitments of EUR 12.5 million and more, for fire protection operations, for the payment of CIFs, for Roma centres, for Centres, for the support of mountain and island municipalities of EUR 20 million, EUR 240,000 for the treatment of natural disasters and a lot of other things. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will finish soon, Madam President. There has also been a mention that we are not allowed to offer any self-government officials unpaid for their services. Of course they mean the pensioners who offer unpaid pay. Obviously, the CEDEFOP would not inform you that since 4 March it has been assured by the relevant Minister, Mr Petropoulos, that the provisions of the law exclude self-government officials who serve unpaidly in positions of responsibility. The Minister's assurance is clear. You probably wouldn't have been informed. On the issue of tendering, it is obviously annoying for you that we want and we have set up a system to ensure transparency in the tender of works. The results will not come out in the hallways of the rooms where the works are auctioned. It will ensure their continuation and completion without the rest of the transgressions. If you mean increasing transparency in tenders, please put forward proposals to talk about them. Because from the whole of your question today, there is no proposal. There is an attempt to control without content and without object. But we'll come back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u159	Thank you. Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panagiotaros has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, Madam President. Let us also say for 9 May, a day of victory against fascism - quite rightly - to experience today, not the German germans, as some of the current rulers of former opposition to the ex-government today, but to please all of us together, and you and all of Greece, the young Mercedes with different questioning and appetite for everything that is going on in our homeland. For this timely question of the New Democracy about self-government, the expression of the anger of the Greek people "two donkeys fought in a foreign barn". I can remember a Latin line 'Zurario':'mezeus parlapipus politicus'. That is the situation that has escaped from every limit. It is here that the now Dedicated Opposition, which is haunting, accuses the current government of the tragic situation in which the municipalities, the communes, have arrived. We've heard this sort of bridging thing. The district managers are good because they speak with the Prime Minister, the CEDC is not good because it does not speak with the Prime Minister, depending on the colouring that each mayor or any regional mayor has. The main cause of the collapse of self-government is the three Memorandums, which you all voted together on constitutional arch in doses. Others voted for the first, others for the second. The third memorandum, you all voted together. Now, as the fourth Memorandum comes next week, where we will see various nice things, such as the vote by SYRIZA - ANEL, those who said they will never vote for memorials and other barbaric statements, and the Civic Opposition to say 'I will never vote'. We will, of course, see until the last minute what will happen, because the background is very intense. But Mr. Mitsotakis states: "We will not vote for it, but the state keeps on doing so, and when we come to the government, in 2018, in 2019, as it is, we will have to implement it." This was also an official confirmation from the Chief of Officerial Response to our lenders, the Troikas, the institutions - tell them as you wish - that "we will be good children and that, for internal consumption purposes, we will probably not vote for the fourth memorandum". We have heard from the PASOK Parliamentary spokesman - Democratic Incorporation of the report he made on 'Kapopestiria' and 'Kalikara' on the areas. We as Golden Dawn have to say that these two reforms that took place, the "KOLIKRATS" and the "KALIKRATS", were and are a key cause of the malicious government at all levels and levels. Instead of driving towards a better way, it led to worse. The reason for the constantly reduced funding is the Memorandum. It's nothing else. The decisions are not taken either by the central government, by the municipalities, by the regions or by anyone else. Everything goes through the control of the troika, even for the last remote village if it should have some extra municipal officials or not. Another reason for the declining and negative direction of government, too - and here we do not see anything essential - is the mismanagement and general impunity in municipalities and regions. Because I happen to be a elected regional consultant and to watch what is happening in the region, we see signs of democracy and monsters happening, humiliate the institution in front of the eyes of the whole world and say that this is the right thing to do. It seems to me that the present government's actions are customer relations. It's how you get a computer and count: We have so many hostages, so they need us for what we'll promise them about the election. So many of us will appoint in various ways, and in particular the infinite nominations made to the municipalities for so-called'refugee and migrant housing structures'. There, of course, if there is any control, there will be no one to be found because they are probably or are locked in their homes and are not going anywhere or working and working for other obligations of the municipalities. The national harmful deforestation of personnel continuing to be made from remote, remote, island regions also has a very significant impact on the country's national security. If you really would like to create customer relations and do a good thing, you could do them, but not by taking them from the remote areas and bringing them to the large urban centers or somewhere else that suits them all. You should fill the remote areas, we have said this before, the island regions, the precise points of our country with officials in local government, so that there is an indirect stimulus for the ever-growing Greek population in these areas. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me one more minute, Madam President. Thank you. Together with the so-called mobility, but in the way you voted, no one will move anywhere, because in order to make a mobility, it must be done with the approval of a public or other official, if it wants to go somewhere, the rationalisation of expenditure, which would be a strong bet that you could win if you wanted it, could help greatly to save money. We are constantly listening to talk about the NSRF. "We have absorbed more." 'No, we absorbed more'. But the point is, where do you absorb these? In actions and actions that are a front, whether they are spent to cover some holes or to create new infrastructure, so jobs? It is what many people have been talking about, which, I think, is one or two municipalities throughout Greece, that is to say, composting within the municipalities and a very large proportion of the waste which has to do with branches and that kind of waste is used for the benefit of the municipalities and also of the municipalities. And another thing, something you were saying quite unlike what you are doing now, waste management. There is the new big game of all kinds contractors. Unfortunately, you too, while in the 2014 elections, the self-government, you had other things on your agenda and others said, we see that you regularly continue the actions and practices of the previous ones and see this gold called "a waste", instead of being for the benefit of the municipalities, so that they also have revenues and can cover jobs on their own and also have revenues for the citizens, be dismantled and, indeed, on very colonial terms to the known co-operatives. For contractors, who have heard a great deal, and some laws had been passed a while ago here in Ethiopia, or they need and you hire them or they don't need and you don't need anything else. But keeping them hostage with practices, which, from what they all show, are unconstitutional and you will find it before you, unfortunately, with what this means, you will do nothing. What we have to say and repeat by closing down - and I thank you, Madam President, for your tolerance - is that if there was a will and a willingness from you to do good in local societies, you could do much, but all you care about, like the previous ones and the next ones, is customer relations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u161	Mr. Synthrakis has the floor from the JRC for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Madam President. I too would like to say that, tomorrow, 9 May, seventy-two years ago, the people of Europe, the Red Army, the Soviet Socialist Union, the people of our country gave us the decisive victorious blow to fascism - Nazism. So we pay tribute to all those who fought and gave their lives with the gun in their hand. We are proud of our party, the JRC, which was the soul and blood donor of the heroic struggle of EAM, ELAS, EPAON and other EAMA organisations. We draw lessons and, when necessary, we will again give our struggle even our lives so that fascism does not resurrect to stop the imperialist wars in which land is to redeem the working class and peoples from the sufferings and slavery for socialism - communism. Ladies and gentlemen, the questions that New Democracy put in its question under the heading "State administration in the face of the government" are, in our opinion, misleading and hypocritical. Why? Firstly, they strengthen the false-printed confrontation of the New Democracy - SYRIZA and in the field of so-called self-government changes, which makes it convenient for both to maintain rapidly separate lines between them, to aggregate their powers in the field of local administration, where, moreover, New Democracy and PASOK remain a majority in the CEDEFOP and the EIC. Secondly, all the reactionary overthrows that have been launched by KALIKARAT in the medium and the memorandums have been sealed by New Democracy and PASOK before, SYRIZA - ANEL today, while the remaining Euro-mono street parties together with the leaderships of the CEDEFOP and the ENP are consenting. Thirdly, they give a grip on this new task of social democracy, which is heard in the name of SYRIZA, to present the same reactionary changes that bring to local administration by reviewing the 'KALIKARAT' as radical reforms, to present my local administration as a people's institution of power and social control, which, however, has changed to a micrography of the central state - so they say - as a result of six years of New Democracy and PASOK's Memorandum Policies. For the JRC it is quite clear that local administration is not a popular institution. As an integral part of the urban state, it acts and serves the interests of a handful of rich states. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy does not care about the return of the deprived resources of self-government, when it itself as a government, like PASOK, in the name of achieving the objectives of economic and monetary union was illegally withholding the institutionalised resources. Today, the SYRIZA - ANEL coup d'état does the same on the pretext of budgetary commitments, in order to achieve fair growth, as it says, for the few of us are saying. Both of them, SYRIZA and New Democracy, have created generations of depraved resources, not only on the institutionalised, but also on the budgets. All state budgets - including New Democracy and SYRIZA - are targeted at the objectives of permanent Euro-Union budgetary discipline. In the same binding spirit, they align the budgets of the municipalities, the first of which is the escalating reduction in their funding from the budget. Indeed, New Democracy and PASOK had established the Economic Observatory for the control of the anti-population fiscal process in the municipalities. Today, the SYRIZA - ANEL coexistence is doing the same, simply trying to change its form, bringing the OTA Reconstruction Committee in its place, with the same anti-population target. A common denominator is the dramatic reduction in taxes, the dramatic reduction in expenditure, the increase in own revenue, which by at least 70% come from taxes, fees and fines, the shrinking of social infrastructure, the privatisation of services and projects, the replacement of staff with stable insurance and labour rights, with staff of various flexible labour relations. Also, it is debatable for thousands of workers that New Democracy speaks of deforestation of small mountain and island municipalities by staff, when it itself through the Mobility and Availability Structure Assessment Program led to a horizontal cut in organic positions for all the services and functions of municipalities and regions and redundancies, breaking the permanent and stable job. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me a minute, Madam President. What really concerns the New Democracy is not deforestation of the staff of the mountain and island municipalities, but the veto of the mayors, not to lose the privileged relationship with them. The same policy is committed to implementing the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, by assessing structures, mobility and staff reduction. With various pretexts such as unconstitutionalism in the renewal of the contracts and negative decisions of the Court of Auditors leads to the dismissal of the contractors and this reveals this whole anti-Syriza-ANEL anti-government face. It guides objectively critical areas in full privatization, such as cleanliness, the conversion of municipal social structures for the poor, children's stations, the "Help at Home", the Centres for Creative Employment of Children in Occupational Social Economys, granting them to the mainstreams of NGOs and KYSPAs. This anti-popular course in the municipalities is now consolidated with the ideological cover of so-called economic self-reliance and self-sufficiency in local self-government, the so-called new governance, with which the New Democracy and SYRIZA agree. It is an orientation that has the agreement of all participants in the Committee of the Interior Ministry for the revision of the 'CALICRATES', the CEDEFOP, the WTO - OTA, except the Government. It is reflected in the basic body of the unanimous findings which have been made public, regardless of whether the CSCE has left the CSCE on a point and then for purely opposition, namely the New Democracy here, which is what we call PASOK, with secondary issues, such as the issue of the Secretary-General in the municipalities and regions, and the mere analogy. That is why the questions of the New Democracy to the Government are both unresolved and disorientated. They are strategically conscientious to both parties, and this strategic approach is related to attracting investment and pooling resources to projects and infrastructures that will serve business groups and not people's needs, such as earthquake and flooding armour, schools, daycare stations and others. It is also related to the robbery use by business groups of the entire municipal real estate. And here is the timid desire, the anguish of the New Democracy about what will happen with the sea, what will happen with the beaches in the municipalities, so that they can be transferred in turn to great-minded owners, in exactly the same spirit. And finally, it relates to the implementation of the so-called social economy, with the assistance of the local administration, which will provide the opportunity for NGOs and the various networks, which are basically controlled by people from your own parties and exploiting unemployed, public infrastructure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u163	Finish it, Mr. Synergy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u164	The JRC - and I close, Madam President - rejects all these versions of the 'Kallikarat', the old one, the revised one. He will do everything he can, whatever goes through his hand, in order to claim what the workers themselves require, which the citizens need, in order to satisfy basic modern folk needs. However, this means that no one should be misled and believe that regional policy can improve or become prologue within the framework of the general policy that remains anti-popular. There is a need for ruptures, twists, a different social and economic system, in which people's participation, social control will be the main support. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u165	Mr Katsikis of the Independent Greeks has the floor. Please make sure you all kind of respect the time. It's not the end of the world today.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask if the New Democracy and the Members who have tabled the topical question were invited to answer the questions which they make up, what would they say? And I am convinced that these questions are being expelled through knowledge available to Members of the New Democracy. After having ruled in the past and handled local self-government issues, today they are well aware that what is a question is nothing but their own fault or their own lack of ability they have created on the background of pathogens. Such pathogens also occur in the field of local government. And I honestly ask: Now the issue of economic and financial difficulties in the field of economic self-sufficiency of the municipalities has been raised, when this government in 2016 paid the last dose of 214 million as the last instalment of the remaining funds for self-government since 2009? When in 2002, where I also served local government and in 2003, in 2005, in 2006, in 2007 and 2008, was the only issue for discussion mainly of the mayors, Mr. Minister of the Interior - whoever the Minister of Interior was then - 'will you give us part of the tax withheld?', have the New Republic colleagues now remembered that they should raise a question of the responsibility of the elected representatives who offer their services to a degree of responsibility when in 2013, as well as a municipal councillor, head of a municipality in my municipality, in the Municipality of Painian, they did not - because they cut 50 euros as representation expenses which the PASOK - New Democracy government cut us back? I do not honestly understand why, instead of putting forward proposals in a fertile political and constructive dialogue, we can see how we can overcome such sufferings that really affect local government, raise issues and put into operation the whole system of Members' presence in Parliament. I also see that there is also a subject on the beaches. You know, with regard to the beaches and their use to tell you - as far as I have been received and received, social issues and problems were concerned - that people came to complain to me years ago that, in August, when the tourist season ended, they had not yet received the necessary permission so that they could get the electricity, which is necessary to enable them to operate, and operate illegally. Suddenly, when some improvements are going to be made in this respect, the current government is saying that it is slashing and that it is not beinghaves in order to promote solutions to such issues. Ladies and gentlemen, if something really characterises the process of local government as a whole after the transformation, it is the continued and constant strengthening of its institutional, economic and political framework and role. This is a development linked mainly to the fact that it gradually prevailed both in the political world and in the Greek people that the conviction that local government, despite its weaknesses, is an institution that is deeply democratic, because of its direct popular legitimacy, and at the same time particularly effective, because of the proximity with which it sees, faces and examines the problems of local communities. The co-setting of an opinion between the local authorities and the central government is the fountain of its operation. Individual actions and imposed procedures lead to a catalyst of the core of the structure of a favoured state. The current SYRIZA - ANEL government could perhaps blame her for some things, but not for a lack of democratic dialogue. Public consultation on legislation, dialogue with bodies, meetings with all stakeholders, and any other non-debt of democracy, demonstrates. Is it possible for a government to be accused, because it does not appear to decide in the absence of all, but is making use of the findings of committees resulting from study, research and exchange of views? Can it be invoked for democratic dysfunction? The central self-resources - the CFP for short-term - of the municipalities come from state-owned, state-owned revenue sources. As you know, 20% comes from annual receipts of personal income tax, 12% of annual VAT receipts and 50% of total annual income from real estate tax. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Madam President, to me, if you're kind. These taxes have been chosen because they are the most dynamic taxes of our tax system and in this respect ensure that the resources of local government are adequate not only today, but also in the future. The image of the lack of efficiency, as I said and repeat, is not today. It started with the start of the crisis, mainly and peaked in 2009. However, the current government has the courage to face up to reality and to launch actions and procedures for the benefit of local government. The implementation of the 2016 Municipalities Budget as regards their financing from the central own resources was normally carried out and, as I said, a instalment of EUR 214 million withheld funds was made. With regard to mobility - and I am ending this - this provision was established in order to make use of human resources, to ensure the rationalisation of services and to ensure their smooth operation. Also, as the Minister said, as far as the legal gaps which may have been identified in its implementation are concerned, I do not think there will be any objections to their elimination, which will be done. The problem of deforestation of mountain and island municipalities because of mobility I believe that the Minister and his services will deal with it with the utmost seriousness so that no municipality can be found without staff. And I close, saying I look forward to alleviating the contradictions that their maintenance causes so much harm to local government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u167	Mr Georgiadis has the floor from the Centron Association for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u168	Thank you, Madam President. I will start with a little comment on what was said by Mr Vorides and Mr Varvitsiotis, on the beaches, which I find absolutely in agreement with. I think that this issue with the auctions needs to be brought to an end, to become clearer and finally, to end the issue of excuse with the CFD. In the Central Association, it is also our belief that self-government is not only at the forefront of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, but it has been taking its fire on the ground for two years already. Unfortunately, the government sees self-government as a party plunder and in no way employs it the marginal situation in which it finds itself or the tragic lack of resources which is, of course, its most important problem. Because it is known that the ultimate aim of a hundred and fifty-three in Parliament - the minority, of course, to the people, which is under 20% - is to control all municipalities and all neighbourhoods. There are many ideas. They started with the proposal to change the method of selecting executive stamps to the municipalities so that they imposed the mayors. And they went more scientifically, with the announcement or I could say, the threat of filing before the summer of a multi-brand plan that they're setting up. It is a project with countless supposedly necessary changes of "CALIKARATI" and many other nebulous changes, which was baptized: "Reforming to self-government". While the Minister negotiates this reform throughout the territory with all the willing mayors and officials of SYRIZA, we consider it unacceptable to reject dialogue with the eminent government, the so-called CEDEFOP, the Central Association of Municipalities of Greece. Beyond what they invent for supposedly necessities upon all scientists, they get rid of some truths. Clearly they say they do not like "KALIKRATIS", because it has been built from the outset in the lesser-state logic. And we all understand what that means: more states in municipalities and regions, more services, more officials, more heads of government, thousands of recruits, so that all of them together - and compassionately, of course, are executives of SYRIZA - can control all activities of local communities. And it is reasonable to ask how all the above is to be financed, which you yourself have cost in 2015 about 3 billion, and at the moment it will be doubled, because the replies to the participatory budget are all we see so far and it needs many clarifications. For a substantial upgrading of the role of self-government (a) and (b) degrees, for the possible metropolitan development of the major municipalities, such as Athens and Thessaloniki, for substantial strengthening of central independent resources, only serious discussion is not possible. In practice, even institutionalised resources for the municipalities have been retained for months or years, intensified by suffocation. I would remind you that the regional authorities - the former prefectures, that is - from 96 million in 2016 to just 32 million in 2017, have fallen by about 65%. In addition, it is known that grade one self-government has been completely excluded from the ESRB, even for the functioning of social poverty structures. In this regard, the Commission considers that the measures in question constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty and Article 107(3)(c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 107(3)(c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The result was to stop for an undetermined period the provision of these services and the two hundred and fifty - six structures with the eighteen thousand benefiting fellow citizens who really need a dish of food, of clothing or of their medicine, not finding comfort. Unfortunately, this is the famous 'first time left'. The government chooses the central state's model of concentration on self-government, and this draft law is the result of the relevant directives that it has given the so-called Committee on the revision of the institutional framework of local government, a committee which is a miracle. For while Article 5 of the original law, of Law No.4368/2016, provided that it was made up of twenty-seven people, of course, by using the provisions for formation and some working groups, it managed to hold a total of thirty-four people together with the secretarial support, i.e. five times more than the original provision. All these persons, of course, were entitled to a reward. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In order not to blame anyone, we have sought to see whether there is a letter, a statement, which will be exempted or waived by these members, but which we do not see. Since we did not see them, we would ask the Minister to present us today with the detailed information so that the Greek people, too, can also learn what the SYRIZA - ANEL government boasts of the pensions of the elderly and the disability and unemployment benefits. With the exception of some fifteen people who participated as members of exofficio who, from what we have understood, did not want them too much by the government on its feet, there are no members who are lost to the government. Finally, all we expect to hear is "the money is there" and by you. Of course, we've got a three-member...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u169	Where did you see that and say it? What do you call it? You're reading from inside...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u170	Minister, you will be speaking on time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u171	You don't know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u172	Minister, we invite you to testify.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u173	But there are testified. You don't know that. It's not justified by the young man of age to say inaccurate. Where did you see these?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u174	Whether they're called inaccurate...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u175	You will answer, Minister. Finish, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u176	We invite you to testify. The three-member committee of five to six people has been heard too many times, but the twenty-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven committee I personally hear it!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u177	There was in the past.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u178	In any case, we do not doubt that for seven months all these officials have been working on the four hundred five pages they have tabled and that, in fact, all of them contain interesting information and all of us will have to study them and read carefully, because this bahtese has a lot of goodies. For example: establishing a simple proportional system as a electoral system, reducing the age limit for the election in seventeen years, introducing local referendums, reducing the term of office for the hereditaries, formalising various popular initiatives. This is in a positive sign and we are in agreement with the Centro Association, but, when we see the recruitment of tens of scientific associates in each municipality, who will help and serve the region, and not only the work of mayors, anti-governments, counties, and so on, based on page 106 of the finding - you will disprove me, if not mentioned - we are talking about further enlargement of the party army. It is, of course, easy to load all of them, ladies and gentlemen, in SYRIZA, because you have given us the right to do so. But we, as a Centro Association, are not looking to find someone like a riot victim. There have been decades of local government's problems. You, gentlemen of the New Democracy, are right to complain about SYRIZA's long hand in self-government, but we want you to tell us what you have done all these years to clean up this entire landscape of self-government that you consider dirty. Even today you are against the removal of the pathogens, the slow payrolls and, more generally, the crackdown on the state money.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u179	Mr. Georgiadis, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u180	Just a minute, Madam President, and I'll be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u181	Just a minute and we got to nine like this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u182	There was a vacation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u183	They weren't scheduled!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u184	That's why? Because very simply the client states have no color red, pink or only green. It's blue, and, if we hurt it, you'll be hurt yourself. In conclusion, we do not act zero and recognise both the errors and the positive interventions. In this regard, what we want is transparency and social accountability. Without the clearance in local government, the place will not be cleared and no government will clean him up. I close with a comment made by Mrs Asmakopoulou because I happened to be present at yesterday's panel. It is unacceptable to hear from a member of the Government at the moment, perhaps the most important bill you bring about, in order to further drown the wages and pensions of Greek taxpayers, by fighting a child who has not gone well in the examinations. In short, do you admit that Mr. Chakalotos had a failed policy? I mean, we should know. Do you like the government's politics and decisions with a lesson in a test that no one wrote well and has the opportunity to rewrite? Honestly, I want to believe that it was a word-on, like all the previous ones you have said as government. I would ask you to be serious. Otherwise, you have to resign because I'm not saying that they're better those who might come, but you're the ones who prove to be dangerous. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u185	The Parliamentary spokesman from Potami Mr Amyras has been given the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am one of those who have had the pleasure, honour and great experience of having nursed in local government. I had the great honour, of course, as head of independent - and I stress it - of municipality order to nurse in the Municipality of Athenians and not as a 'ordinary star'. You may not remember the tweet you wrote to me, but it doesn't matter. So here we are, to discuss local government, its problems and the way it goes forward. So, ladies and gentlemen, from my little experience in the Municipality of Athens, I have now come to an end: two are the main factors for local government to succeed. First, it's the mayor's personality. If the mayor has in his mind a determination and knows from the experience of real life to deal with problems and overcome them, then the municipality of which he leads is in a good way, in my view. The second success factor is the disfellowshipping of any connection with the parties. The more independent a municipality is run, the greater the chance of success it has. That is why I am sorry when I hear politicians from different parties accusing each other of matters of local government, saying "you have your own" and others answering "and you have twenty others."
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u187	Simple proportional, therefore!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u188	Of course, there must be a simple analogue for local government! A culture of cooperation must be created and we must leave this political labyrinth of the big heads that decide on the daily life of the citizen. So, ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of the timely question by the Members of the New Democracy, I call on the Government to take bold action on the issues of Ottawa. Is it so old that you're running it? I got it. I'll send it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u189	What date was it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u190	I'll tell you later. It's been more than two years. Dear Mr Skourletis, the start has been made by the law on the 'Kappistria'. Alekos Papadopoulos was then the author of the law. He took a big step to gather that chaotic landscape with thousands of municipalities and communities. The second step - which I would say was the most comprehensive - was, of course, the 'CALL' law. Ragus was the author of the law as Minister at the time. These two reforms - and quite rightly so - have brought together the fifty-seven prefectures in thirteen regions, in a decentralised way of administration. That's important. It also changed the method of funding local government bodies. Self-government has increased from four to five years. From where we had nine hundred ten municipalities by 2010 - if I am not mistaken - and a hundred and twenty-four communities, i.e. almost every village and a mayor or a colonel, we reached the three hundred twenty-five municipalities. These steps are important. I, therefore, expect the government - so as not to impersonate it - to really see its own reform. What's the next step? How are you going to build on what's already there and right? How will you change and demolish - to say so - the negative, which is too much, not a little? However, I still have not heard the basic elements of a reform that will actually go hand in hand with the 21st century. However, in order to achieve any move, the condition of communication and dialogue with local government in terms of respect will be very clear. If the CEDEFOP does not want to participate in the dialogue, you must insist, again and again, because that is how it is exposed, and I think that perhaps some mayors within it may receive a message of real interaction with the government on a matter that is so serious. Of course, there are also the good mayors, there are also the bad mayors, and there are the moderate mayors. Similarly, there are good citizens and irresponsible citizens and bad citizens. Whatever we are discussing, I will tell you that the efficiency index of a reform will be seen by a small element - which you may not even have taken into account, not to know, and I will not blame you on it - which would bring the title: "The stray dogs at the University of Ioannina". Two months ago, ladies and gentlemen, a letter from a hundred foreign students - not Greeks - who are studying at the University of Ioannina fell in my hands. They're doing some seminars and some teaching programs there. Among these students are some students from China. I'm telling you this to see the geographical distance. These hundred students said to the dean, to the municipality, to the police: "Save us from the stray dogs, they bite us all the time." So I contacted the municipality, with the authorities there and some of the students, and I learned that there is a big problem, because the municipal shelter of stray animals in Ioannina has been "tigais". You'll tell me this can happen elsewhere! See, then, Minister, and from your answer, I will understand a lot of things, I think - how the central administration blocks the resolution of such a small - perhaps for someone who sees it from a distance - or a great - for the Chinese student who bites it. The Municipality of Ioannis has asked the Decentralised Administration of Epirus and Western Macedonia for the recruitment of a veterinarian, to sterile the strays, to take care of them, to put their chips and so on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u191	There's no need for intake.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u192	I need to. It was then sent to the decentralised administration and the request was accepted. The decentralised administration sent to the Ministry of Interior the positive request and the positive suggestion for the recruitment of a veterinarian to the Ioannina municipal shelter. Since then, there has been a 'fish-whisper'. The "then" when is it? It is February 17, 2016. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Why am I telling you this? I say this because the central administration to some extent, possibly because of ignorance or has nothing to do with what to do with it, lets a small problem grow. I have therefore sent a letter to the students, and I say to them that we will certainly see the matter to your benefit, but to the stray animals - and do not even send a protest to your embassies. Because they were going to send a protest to their embassies and move legally against the authorities, even the university. So, ladies and gentlemen, in order not to bore you any more, because I am over my time, I end up with a little comment. Mr. Skourletis, I heard you tell the New Democracy that your memorials are to blame for the lack and interruption of funding. Is that how we're gonna get it now? Our memorials and memorials, as used to be the blues and green cafes? Memorandums are either good or not necessary or not necessary. That is where I want your position and not 'our memos and your memos.' I will not say now about the new measures and the new'memorandum of cavaja' which is coming. I'll tell the committee on Monday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u193	The circle of parliamentary representatives is over. So now we're going to the questioners. There will only be two seconds left, Mr. Voridis and Mr. Georgantas. As far as I can see, my colleague says you only have three minutes, Mr. Voridis. I'll give you five. Keep it! Mr. Georgades has three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u194	Would you give me five minutes, too?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u195	You normally had two and a half.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u196	I want five minutes, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u197	No, you've got three minutes. You are a parliamentary representative. Now we're in the questioners. Mr. Vorides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u198	Thank you, Madam President. But now, Mr Skourletis, let us say where we disagree and say what was agreed in the procedure. We have called on you because you have not adopted the joint ministerial decision, which is necessary, to move on with the issue of beaches. You agreed that you hadn't published it. Now why are you complaining about this criticism? We have called on you because you have opened a debate on the cyberdynamicity of the municipalities. You have come here again, clearly, to strike us, because we disagree with a simple analogy. All right, you know them the reasons for our disagreement, not because we echo the black, dark, conservative past, I know, and all these nice bluffs, but because in fact this electoral system, described as simple and inappropriate, does not guarantee rulership in the municipalities. You are now saying 'consensuals will be built'. "Consensuals will be built" is in the best option for everyone. And discrimination that creates deep divisions, as you know, is not always ideological. There are harsh disagreements and divisions for reasons far less than ideological, personal ambitions or anything else that does not allow compositions. Practicability, how will you guarantee it? Thirdly, we have called on you on the issue of the detainees. What's your deal? That yes, I don't give them and I won't give them. Saying what? That, you know, there were cutbacks. But, of course, but also when given and given, these cuts existed. And they were issued so far after the cut-off period. So the big question is why what was given...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u199	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u200	Listen, why did you take a leap? You took us to 2009 and you say, you know, these are shaped as debts for 2009. Indeed, that's true. Only then did the governments regulate these debts. You said in eight instalments. Yeah, but then the governments of ours, which you forsake today...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u201	Did you regulate them in 2011, 2012, in 2013?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u202	I repeat, but since the previous ones were paid. Anyone who knows a lot about how payback is done knows you're paying the old ones first, then you're adjusting the new ones. Your hands came the new ones and you stopped paying, what you had to pay for. The question is why. Because, beware, these were written in the budget, in the budgets. Therefore, as they were to be given, they could continue to be given. It is your political choice that you do not give them. To be informed and clear in this. I'll go to the next one. We have raised you, listen, the issue of contractors. I will not have this debate again, nor will I recapitulate it, because it is clear to me. We asked: Will the mayor decide on constitutionality? Oh, no. Does the court decide? Uh, yeah. The Court of Auditors' steps to decide? Yeah. Question now: In view of the issue that has been raised, you are now saying that it is right that the mayors be persecuted and disciplinaryly persecuted, why do they think, firstly, that these workers are unjustified, secondly, that they are being blamed on the municipalities and, thirdly, that I can say so in the most diplomatic way that I can say so? - there's a legal unfinished matter. You're going to send this mayor to be disciplinaryly audited? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Why is this leading member of ours, which is also "taliban" of ours, who is not - I'm talking about Mayor Cassandra - you know what he says? He says something very important: "Will Scurlet come and tell me who I need and who I don't?" Just answer that. Because here we are in the self-government core. Will you, by law, decide who the workers they need in self-government are and will you come and tell them and how they will commit their resources? Here we are in the nucleus. I have not heard you repeat the statement here about thirty thousand permanentizations. You said it at some point and then, now, here, you didn't say it, you left it a little more open. Would you clarify that?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u203	I'll make it clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u204	You'll explain it to us. But here's to make things clear. Excuse me. Here there are accusations that can indeed be considered as covering permanent, permanent and permanent needs. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] With your permission, I can't violate your license.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u205	Finally, I see you talking the language of reason with the last one. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u206	For the license?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u207	And not just.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u208	Wait. But you've been slapping all the charges in this particular area. It's not like that. So, if one wants to make this debate seriously, one should sit down and see it by category.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u209	You have uncontrollable.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u210	Wait now. But you have also revealed something else that I consider to be extremely important. You spoke absolutely deceptively. I am telling you, your right to express yourself as you wish, you are calling the government, but you have spoken completely deceptively about the CEDEFOP. What are you telling them, anyway? That they are in agreement with us and they come and raise the issues they raise, because they want to make you opposition. Can I ask you a simple question? Two minutes. Is it not ours? Why did we give the EIA another line? Another line in the HSPE and another line in the CEDEFOP? Ours aren't the ones from there, are they not the ones from here? So we can go to Paul's decaying crime now. These issues that I have raised to you, namely the issue of beaches, the issue of contractors, the issue of simple proportionality and governance, the question of self-government that must provide unpaid services, the issue of bureaucracy, the big, high-speed, which its reduction does not mean lack of control, on the subject of contracts, does not the CED raise you? So, if Patolis puts them on you, why is he a party seat and that's not what needs to be discussed? On the substance, do you, as a government, not have answers and dialogue? When these issues are raised, what will you be? "You're a neo-democrat, aren't you? I'm saying this because you gave this motive to Patolis. You said he's doing this because he's in consultation with us. I say: has Patolis done more than to put these issues to you and ask for a dialogue with you? So what's most of it? It's the same thing, isn't it? Aren't these the questions? So these are not legitimate questions which the government must answer as having the responsibility of regulating relations with local government? So here we go to the timeline. These are the issues to which you are invited to reply. You do not respond to this and show an authoritarianism, which does not fit. All right, now, what I'm saying on the left: 'austerism'. I mean, I could put an equation here: Left equals authoritarianism.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u211	So don't put it, because it's time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u212	But anyway...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u213	Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u214	...to get out of this...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u215	That's better. Tajsta.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u216	I therefore believe that you have a duty to discuss and resolve the problems. You don't. On the contrary, you have targeted local self-government. As long as we are talking about what is happening in the regions, we will discuss this at a next question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u217	Mr. Georgios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u218	Mr Voridis, in your question why the Minister treats mayors in this way, the answer is one: according to the Minister, at least to what I understand, the mayors are officials of the Minister of the Interior. We are telling them - in the payroll services - how many employees take, for how long to get them, how to pay them themselves. When they do not comply with what we say to them, we send them a letter from the decentralised administration to go through disciplinary control and, at the same time, we leave insinuating what the Court of Auditors will say against, obviously, what the tiles have already said in relation to the unconstitutionality of the provisions and the non-legality of the expenditure. Things are very simple. I, in fact, would like to see a state official of a decentralised administration who imposes a disciplinary sentence on a mayor, because he does not apply the Constitution to his decree that does not require any interpretation. Articles 103 and 102 of the Constitution are a first-year student of law perfectly clear. No interpretation is necessary. I would really like to see it if a state-owned disciplinary officer can justify disciplinary action against hereditaries who apply the Constitution. Of course, I would remind you that when SYRIZA was in Anti-Policy and there was a directive to mayors, to hand over the employees' files to make it self-evident - control of the authenticity of his diplomas and documents - that is where SYRIZA came out and covered some mayors and said "do not send the files, this is not legal to happen, do not cooperate with the Ministry to make the check." What check? The verification of the authenticity of the documents. And we can compare these two cases, of course, to see how each individual's mentality is different, the feasibility of each and, of course, to assess, at the end of the day, how they all see self-government. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] There are indeed categories of contractors, in the sense that they offer services without a permanent relationship to the public, such as assistant teachers, such as subsidiary doctors, to whom we would of course like to call permanent posts. Not to automatically transform fixed-term contracts into indefinite, as you have not only implied, but you have clearly said earlier. We agree that the public should decide what really needs to be prioritised and declared. Do not make any automatic conversion, which is, in any case, forbidden. Invite them to participate all those who are already working and those who are not working, but who are well qualified and are currently out of fixed-time contracts. So, in teachers and doctors, we fully agree to create permanent positions. You just keep announcing them, you've never done it. In all the other services of a return, let the mayors do what the Constitution demands them to do and they know very well to do so and at the bottom - their citizens pay for it. It is a reward service and the public will be judged after two years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u219	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, how much time do you want? Ten minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u220	And less, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u221	Thank you. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u222	I think that the debate has given us the opportunity and highlighted all the dimensions, the enormous responsibilities of the previous governments, in relation to the resources of self-government. There was no clear answer for 60% or more of the resources you deprived of PASOK and New Democracy from self-government. And you come now, in fact with a completely "adjudicative" to say, "alchemia" to say it, try to tell us "we had made the doses, but for the years that we cut we had not made the adjustment, so that you could find the dose, and so you have responsibilities", and other words to be loved.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u223	That's easy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u224	That is, it's never heard of. Listen to it first. What do you say, anyway, now? What do you propose in relation to resources? You didn't tell us clearly. I saw something I liked. When you talked about contractors, for the first time I saw a little move. Of course, your last colleague was on another line. He corrected you. Is there a matter for those who, for ten, eleven, twelve, thirteen, fourteen, fifteen years, cover through constantly renewed contracts, lasting and constant needs? You said 'yes, we see it'. Your colleague said other things a moment ago. But I, even so, take it as a first mood for discussion on an existing subject. The 'thirty thousand' you haven't heard from me. You read the titles of the publications. It is another thing to speak of a tank and another to call on you - and that is what we need to do at some point - to look at the criteria of these cases, which you yourself said a moment ago. And to see, through the ADP, how we will try to provide a sustainable and lasting solution. Do we agree on that? If we agree on this, it means we're on the right track. If we don't agree, we disagree. No one imposed on alpha or the beta mayor if he would get ten, twenty or thirty people in cleanliness. All requests are made under the responsibility of the municipalities for the eight months.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u225	The extensions?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u226	I'll tell you about the extensions. Since, however, we are talking about the core of administrative selfishness, you have violated him as a government. Municipal Police didn't dismantle it. So go and catch all the mayors who have been supported in one way or another by the New Democracy. I was with one of the Ionian ones the other day.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u227	What's his name?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u228	I won't tell you! [[Laughers in the Chamber]] I won't tell you! It's easy to see. If you see the connection, you'll understand. Ask them: "Do you think there was an unprecedented damage to the city's issues, to the issues of traffic surveillance, to this dissolution that you did?" Because we have restored these people in terms of jobs, but the service has been dismantled, and now we are being asked for new recruitments, and some say that we should set them up on a new reward basis. It was a huge damage you did. Ask one who's not yours, the mayor of Thessaloniki, not to mention yours and the man is in trouble. From there on, there is a subsidization and I mentioned a problem - which we need to manage right now - for a thousand five hundred people who have passed through the last competition for the self-government of the AACC, who are directed at very specific municipalities and, of course, after so many years, people do not even come. In these difficult conditions of subsistence, have you heard of the effort we have made with the ICU, the Land Office, engineers and the EBRD in an effort to support the possibility of submitting studies to enable municipalities to take programs from the NRC? It's done this. Do you know of the extraordinary aid that has been made to island and mountain towns with which your friend CEDEFOP disagreed? I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the work he has put into it. For a law in which you at first agreed, but not the way it went, the permanent financing of the Tritsi Park - you know it - the Tritsi Park, I imagine, is in the west of Athens, where your Chief was playing small when he was in the pants - there so he went and appealed against this regulation in the Council of State. Take note, then, that the KEEA, the people of self-government, in a permanent solution for a large park of super-local value, has appealed against. I'm telling you now: How do you characterize it? You'll tell me next time we meet, because I don't know if you have the right now to talk. In the difficult circumstances again, have you heard for the first time that there has been a national plan for waste management and that regional authorities have also been approved, adopting a completely different logic, introducing recycling at source and reducing the final balance? That is what you have not mentioned at all. Isn't that about self-government?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u229	We have another question. Tell us when we'll talk about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u230	Sure. Because all mayors are not the same, and there are people who are householders regardless of what they have been supported or what they believe, there have been considerable efforts in which they have been successful in recent years and have improved the collection of their own resources, and that is why there has been a different ratio between the CAP and the own resources. It is an encouraging sign on the part of the municipalities, which should be strengthened through the changes. Since the old exaggeration of full immunity and of developmental and municipal enterprises that were "vehicles" to carry out client policies, we have fallen into another excess: We have banned anything. However, we believe that the change that we are going to be able to rethink in some cases to set up special-purpose enterprises. One of these possibilities is now coming in the new bill for the energy cooperatives brought by the Ministry of Energy and the Environment, which will enable the municipalities to participate in energy partnerships. We also need to think about other such ideas if we want to go to a logic now of a particular role that can be played for local things and in economic terms by municipalities and the first and second degrees of self-government. You ask us about how we deal with the debate on the reform. Do you keep in mind how the previous reforms took place? Didn't they become a reprieve of all the heretics? Didn't they happen in closed rooms? The fact that we have already announced, said about titles, about scorpions, about content, we want to exacerbate this debate, about confrontation, about dialogue, is wrong? So why are you giving up on us right now? Because for the first time we have shown what an open democratic process means? Because we also want you to adopt a democratic dialogue culture on the issues of institutional change? And we're telling you, we don't intend to surprise anyone. We have said that, if we are in a position, in June - July, we will bring in a more concrete context. Right now we want to focus on this debate. We put on the stimuli. I would also like to refer to Mr Amyras' position in a positive way, which said some interesting things, and to Mr Gregorakus' position. You had your own opposition pattern. But the most funny of all is talking about authoritarianism. Because the concept of democracy, you know, has an autism. I disagree with those who say 'civil democracy'. It's a conquest of the peoples, their struggles, of movements. Honestly, it can become a reality, get greater dimensions when it gives the opportunity to participate in the world and especially at the level of local societies. This is all about your own centralized concept of the state, obviously, is foreign.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u231	People's assemblies in the neighborhoods, then.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u232	Yeah. People's assemblies in neighborhoods are not a bad thing. And the participatory budget is not a bad thing. Why is he scaring you? Why do these thoughts scare you, these suggestions? In any case, ladies and gentlemen, I think that dialogue is open anyway. I have never refused to meet the CEDEFOP and I have never ceased to communicate with it. However, I refused to have a specific debate under the specific circumstances that had more features of a performance I referred to before and I have no intention of commenting on it again. I think that with this and the others the debate will continue. And it will continue whether they want to be involved or not. And you know why? Because it's not a blind symphony. It's a conversation that runs into real needs. There is the material that is needed at the moment, there is experience, there are things that have matured and we need to try them out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u233	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u234	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u235	Mr. Javarra, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u236	Minister, I note that you tend to be elsewhere at all times. You are not systematically the subject of the debate. You may follow this beautiful phrase of Lakan that says that "I am not where the game of my thought is. " In democracy, and especially here in this Chamber, you are obliged to answer the questions you are asking. It is very beautiful and very easy to go where it pleases you. But in this way you are not helping parliamentary control. You have an obligation, it is your institutional obligation to answer questions and questions. Because that right does not belong to the government. It belongs to the Opposition. And every time in this Chamber, what is being tested is your sensitivity to democratic parliamentary procedures. That is why you are always elsewhere, because for these democratic conquests you feel completely indifferent. So it is very interesting to hear from your mouth to dream about planning what you will do tomorrow, after two months, after five months. But today we have been waiting for an answer to these specific questions, which you are asking and which you do not ask about. In other words, there is a well-determined downward tension in the position of Officerial Opposition through this process in the government. That is why we ask you, firstly, to separate what you may not want to do, but you are obliged to do so. And what's that? You told us, and you ask us as a New Democracy, why we have delayed, if we have delayed, money, resources in local government at the time when we were government. This is a nice and interesting subject, but it is not the subject on which debate is taking place today. And avoiding responding to the issues that are indeed the subject of the dialogue that is taking place in this parliamentary procedure, you show that you are not really convinced of the value, importance and effectiveness of parliamentary democratic institutions. I will recall another very beautiful expression that he once told the French when he was incarcerated, Marquis de Sant: "It still takes an effort to become democrats you on the radical left". And don't treat us with the damage. There are issues for which you have not convinced anyone that you have found basic values of democracy, and that is here every day in Parliament, when you do not come to answer questions when you are not coming to answer any such forms of parliamentary control. What kind of offer are you doing? At the conventions in the neighborhood? That's a very interesting case. I'm with you, too. It is very beautiful in a neighborhood for people to come together and talk and talk about their problems. It is here, however, that popular sovereignty is exercised in a real, real and symbolic way. And that is what you have to do and serve and respect it. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u237	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u238	Mr President, I ask for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u239	Staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u240	Give me a few seconds to explain the staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u241	I'll give you the floor, but I don't think there was any staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u242	There was. During my speech I was accused of being inaccurate and lying. I have to clarify this a little, because I did not have the draft law at the time...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u243	Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u244	Thank you, Mr President. You referred to the Minister, because I referred to Law No4368 on the setting-up of a committee - and you said that all officials are unpaid. I'll read the article. In the committee, beyond the original document, which is twenty-seven people, and we understand that they are paid, the rest of you say that they work unpaid and I would ask you to bring us the relevant document, which says that they work unpaid. For in paragraph 6, it states: ‘In the framework of the Committee and by decision of the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, up to four groups may be formed. In each working group, which is responsible for the members, there will also be experts and so on..." And we shall go to paragraph 7 in which it states: "The committee and working groups shall meet within and outside the working hours of the Ministry's departments and their members, as well as to the rapporteurs and officials appointed to provide secretarial support, compensation shall be paid for their participation in their meetings in accordance with Article 21 of Law No.4354/2015, whichever is the case." If it is mentioned somewhere that they work unpaid, please testify and I will recall, and I will say that I have been wrong and have not read it. As also, I presupposed during that we overthrowded and didn't find anything, but based on L.4368...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u245	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u246	All right, you made it clear, Mr. Georgiadis. Minister, would you like a comment?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u247	I have to make it clear. But please, from now on, withdraw the designation...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u248	Mr. Georgiade, all right. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u249	You referred to a possibility that exists. So I assure you - and please ask you a question to submit these documents - that no one has taken anything. Neither did the employees who worked in the service, beyond their hours and worked in infinitely. That's what I'm telling you. I would ask you very much to go officially through the official parliamentary procedure and to put a question to you to produce the relevant documents.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u250	I'm looking forward to it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u251	Thank you, Minister. The debate is adjourned on No. 18/15/54-2017 of the topical and urgent debate on "State administration in the target of the government". Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-08-S1-commons.u252	With the consent of the House at 21.15 p.m., the meeting for the next Wednesday, May 10, 2017, on the subject of the Parliament's legislative work: only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of National Defence: "Following the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway on cooperation in the field of defence equipment, systems and services", according to the agenda distributed.
