ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to the Parliament's approval from 7-2-2017, its minutes of Tuesday, 7 February 2017, with regard to the vote in the entire draft law: ‘Amendment of the Code of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and other provisions’.]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Today, six questions will be discussed. There will also not be a debate on six, namely: The second question, under number 436/3-2-2017, is the first question of the Member of Parliament, Heraklion, New Democracy, Eleftherios Aegaki, to the Minister for Migration Policy, Mr Ioannis Mousal, concerning refugee - immigration, the number of NGOs involved, the amounts managed and the staff employed, will not be discussed due to the absence of the relevant Minister abroad. Nor will the following three topical questions be discussed and redefined for discussion, addressed to the Minister of the Interior, Mr Toska, who is absent because of unreserved obligations, be discussed and redefined for discussion: The first under number 438/6-2-2017, the first question of the first cycle of SYRIZA MP Mr. Christos Karagiannides, concerning the immediate resolution of the problems faced by firefighters five years of obligation. The third, with number 434/2-2-2017, the top-circuit question of the Athens MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panagiotarou, on the "anothermal action of Turkish agents and their representatives in Thrace" and the fourth with number 430/31-1-2017, the first question of the Thessaloniki Parliamentary II of the Democratic Association of the PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Georgiou Arvanitides, on the significant reduction of the firepower in the Regional Unit of Thessaloniki. The second question, under number 435/2-2-2017, is the second question of the Athens Parliamentary of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Helen Zaroulias to the Minister of Finance, concerning the appointment of a judge in the administration of the Supreme Council, will not be discussed because of the impediment of the Minister of State Mr. Tsakalotos. Cause: workload. For the same reason, the sixth question under number 439/6.2.2017 will not be discussed for the first time in the Parliamentary II cycle of Piraeus, the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance, regarding the transfer of PPC's users to companies of alternative electricity providers. We are now moving on to the third with number 432/2/2017, a topical question from the Parliamentary Attica of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Paraskevi, on the non-participation of representatives of the members of the Single Social Security Agency. The timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr Anastasios Petropoulos. Mrs Christophilopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the insurance counter-reform has become Golgothas for insured and retired people. A bunch of cuts for pensioners, a lot of contributions for the insured, if one adds taxes to them and taxes, especially indirect taxes, then becomes a fruitful result. But that's not all. It is also an incredible administrative salt that has arisen with EVA, which starts with the blocks and the regulation that you have brought, with which, unfortunately, everyone is losing, both the state and business and those with blocks, resulting in more black work and unemployment, while at the same time closing down activities and redundancies. But that's not all, Minister. We also have huge administrative insecurity, because there has been chaos with the FBI. Just one example, I'll get you. I will confine myself to this because I don't have much time. The engineers who had settled old debts saw them suddenly, Mr President, until 31 January, a double dose. You'll tell me: Systems problem. I will tell you: they had to be predicted. What has the government done to protect itself? He brought a law, the law of Katrugalu. The insured and the retired, Mr. Minister, will also sleep in their sleep they will have nightmares with you and Mr. Katrugalo, who has, of course, retired to a quieter ministry now, after he has done the dirty work for Mr. Shoeble and for Mr. Tsipras. But that's not the purpose of my question. That's what people know, the market knows, the market is bogging. What are you doing? By law Katrugalos you limit the representation of the insured, and then you also do a wicked manipulation. How do you do it? So far, Mr President, since 1946, the representatives of the insured in IKA have had a majority of them. We've got the FBI, who doesn't just have the IKA, he's got all the funds. He has farmers, he has professionals, he has dealers, he has engineers, he has lawyers. He's got everything. And we have two members in the entourage. After the Katorugalos law passes a SYRIZA provision in 2016, which says that the entrepreneur can also function as nemie without even representing these two positions. And today, Minister, you have put the opinions where everyone is involved, and farmers, etc. Yes, but what am I supposed to do when the opinion is doing what the word says? There are still no representatives of the Board of Directors. You're gonna tell me, is that the problem? That is also the problem, because everything I said before, which you do, cannot control, cannot be involved. Over the past decades in IKA from the seventeen, only seven were of the state. Now the eleven, the six are of the state, that is, the absolute majority. This is not the case, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u4	Here, Mr. Petersburg, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. One I'll answer the questions. I would first like to make it clear what is confusing, when they are heard in Parliament's Chamber. The notice he went to the insured is two instalments. It's not one. In order to avoid unnecessary costs, they shall be informed of the contribution they have to make in February and of the amount they have to pay in March. These contributions are not required as a whole. So it's not double in the sense you said it. It's an update on two contributions for two different months. In January what the insured pays is the December levy. So don't cause any more confusion. As long as there is confusion in the world. There is also other misinformation about what is going on with the contributions. The contributions were posted and posted for both farmers and freelance professionals. 90% of farmers are invited to pay just 85 euros. Overall, 90% of farmers pay a smaller sum - up to EUR 300 - than they paid last year. And we will not go back on what we have decided, giving farmers the same right as on other Greeks, that is to say, to take a national pension. She was deprived of all the previous years for decades. And in 1959 the Ministry of Coordination in his report said that it is the part of society that is at the lowest level of protection. Sixty years later we give this part of the population - which is very important to the economy - the right that other Greeks enjoy. As far as free professionals are concerned, 80% pay the minimum category, namely, EUR 158 a month. Professionals know, here we are. One can no longer say what goes down on his head. I know that very well. I used to walk the streets of Athens, walk away and discuss with the world. Professionals leave the stores and tell me: 'We have been saved, we will finally pay contributions'. They did not pay contributions, because the amount was unthinkable. It was 700 euros and 800 euros. They did not pay contributions because they were impossible to pay them. I would also call on the Step once again for all the wings of the House, along with the professional associations of employers, GSE and GSE, to co-exist and convince, to call on those who did not pay because they were unable to pay, to go back to the social security system and to pay the contributions they did not pay. That is how we will support social security, so we will be able to keep the contributions low, so we will be able to obtain revenue so that we can alleviate those real few who are, however, charged with amounts that were not before.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u6	Close for the question, please, because I have no time at all for today, because there is a bill then.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u7	I'm always noble when I hear extensions I can't answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u8	Okay, I left you and you'll have a minute. In dentistry, you'll say the rest. Answer the main question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u9	Mr President, I am sure you will know that no one of courtesy should be defeated. And I can't politically answer here, in such unscrupulous and completely wrong report...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u10	I left you and I'm just making a request...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u11	Yeah, but don't cut me. Let's not have it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u12	Answer and have three more minutes later, in dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u13	I'm going to the question. Just three in the eleven-member board of EFKA is a government choice - only three! - the commander and the two lieutenants. And already on the board of EFKA, he is a representative of the pensioners - Mr. Kubouris, who is not a SYRIZA - he is a representative of the ESDP, of the people with disabilities - and is not a SYRIZA - he is a representative of the workers at the Single Social Security Agency with his deputy, who have been designated by the two federations by intervention of our own in order to be able to represent them because they have not been able to hold elections. If we wanted to avoid them being involved, we would not make this legislation so that it would not be here to be appointed by choice of the federations. What are we avoiding? But because I want to think that you are asking good faith, and because we are the ones fighting for everyone in the public and we want it, we need it, because society needs it, I will tell you that the last side of the working party, the Pan-Hellenic Navy, our sailors, a proposal for representatives on 20 January. And because we all have to send representatives to make a choice between all the advisory committees for those who represent the insured, the workers and the employers, that is why there is a delay. What were we supposed to do? Adopting an invalid decision without the participation of seafarers and suffering the composition? So, whoever doesn't have time to send out? We have not chosen this solution. Because I pay it out to you that you did not know the reason, I would like to think that you are asking good faith and therefore you will not insist because what we are doing is soon to elect their representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u14	First of all, for reasons of order, I should like to mention that the Secretary of Government has sent a letter confirming the reasons for the absence of the Ministers, for there will be no six questions. I would like to ask both colleagues and ministers a very warm request. Because we have to start the bill quickly, because a large number of colleagues will be enrolled, today I will not be tolerant of time, as I do sometimes, when there is no bill, I leave twice as much time to the ministers and especially to my colleagues as I do not have the opportunity. That is why I would ask you to be on the question. Mrs Christophilopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u15	Mr President, I will be lacquer, but different explanations are needed, because not only are we not unscrupulously, but we are also listening to the world, we are not just studying. Minister, first of all what you said about the national pension on the farmer is a very big mistake because the basic pension of the Loverd-Koutromanis law was the same thing for farmers too. So you're lying. You're wrong. Secondly, if you are told by the self-employed "happily, you saved us" I have examples of people who have an OIE, a small-medium, an EU - is listening to Mr Stathakis, who was at the Ministry of Development - and he is a cowardly partner. Do you know that these people until yesterday paid the sums of EUR 250 to the OAU and are today called for 1,300, Minister? How will this man survive? That's what you're doing. Yes, but for some young people you slightly reduce contributions - at the same time you are cutting their taxes - on the other hand, these small and medium-sized people are kicking their ass. And because you said about the FBI, I would like to say to you: where are the provisions on pensioners who work, who are still waiting for them, and who are taking over pensions without having taken out the circular? Where is the circular for parallel voluntary insurance? Where's the circular for forced parallel insurance? I'm so sorry, what have you been doing all these months? You chose to build the FBI and within seven months to operate it, you legislated him. So you have the knife and melon. And on this point: everything you have said is like this for the Board, but I have two counter-problems, which are hard and political and fundamental, Minister, because we are making this criticism. First of all, I didn't say about parties on the board. You've got three parties. The other three, however, are the state. And you know, as a lawman, that the tripartite nature of social security to date, Mr President, had the tripartite representation when in IKA it was one of the seventeen only seven states - I am not talking to SYRIZA or New Democracy or PASOK at that time, but to the state. So where's the tripartite character of social security within the ECA Board of Directors? First of all, your law suffers and change it. He suffers the law himself and suffers the way you apply it. And because I am not making a zero opposition, I understand the delays of the representatives. But I am telling you again that your law is suffering, because when these consultative bodies send you representatives, it will still be distorted, even for pensioners. I honor both the JRC and the FAME and everything. He's the representative of the JRC inside. Yeah, it could be S.H.I.E.L.D., too. But that's not the point. The point is that there must be full tripartite representation in the Board. Will you change the law? How will you ensure that? Employers, employees, self-employed, merchants, farmers. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u16	I would like to ask the following: The names, which are mentioned, represent bodies, do not represent parties. Can any Mr. Kubouris ideologically belong to a party...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u17	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u18	Yeah, I don't answer you. As a general principle, Mrs Christophilopoulou, I say that. I know. Don't make such descriptions, because it's not right. Now if ideologically the representatives of operators belong somewhere, that is not to the detriment of any. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u19	Of course, Mr President, I agree with your comment. I said it's not SYRIZA. Indeed, Mr Kubouris, as an old Member of the Communist Party, and I wanted to hide what he is, I could not. I have therefore violated open doors to Mr Kubouris. You're not a summing up right, Mrs. Christophilopoulou. Make it. I have already said that, of those who have been placed, it is already three of the nine, who are representatives of disabled people, of pensioners throughout the country, of workers in the single social security institution, who are a special scientist - I do not want to say anything more - who is a person chosen for his knowledge of social security, are two members of the Ministry, officials who have emerged in high positions not from us. And we wait. Unless you want to tell us directly not to participate until we go to the next phase. Say it. So, what do we do? Shouldn't the sailors be involved? If your position is that seafarers should not participate and proceed with those who said...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u20	Did I say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u21	All right, let's get this over with. I said: On 20 January in particular, the seamen sent us their representatives. So we could not be a representative of the seven advisory committees earlier. And the advisory committees - read it well in the law - have extensive responsibilities. They participate substantially and not formally. And what is our purpose and we have proclaimed it is social security to be a matter of the insured themselves.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u22	Yeah. How!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u23	It is precisely because it is a matter of the insured themselves, with their effective involvement in the functioning of the Advisory Committees, that they will highlight those issues that need to be resolved and put the policy frameworks that are called upon to be implemented by the governors in the Single Social Security Agency justifiablely. It shall not be arbitrary to operate the board of directors and administration of the EPC. It is also within the framework of the proposals and policies drawn up by all the advisory committees. So that is good, and it is about everyone's genuine involvement and we are not making any impressions now, because the seafarers, because of the specific nature of their professions, are not going to be followed up in an office, they have been delayed sending their representatives. They sent on January 20th. Now that they have all been sent, they will be gathered, since we choose from the farmers, who are unfortunately not represented. Unfortunately, they don't have an organization.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u24	I asked you another question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u25	Finally, reread the Law of Loverde. There is no basic pension for farmers. There was never a basic pension for farmers. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u26	We move to the fifth, with number 444/6-2-2017, a timely question for the first cycle of the MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the interruption of electricity in Heraklion, due to weather phenomena due to the lack of personnel in the TEN. Mr Georgios Stathakis will answer. Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the extensive blackouts in all the prefectures of Crete and in many areas of the country because of the severe weather phenomena were not a limited phenomenon. We had a long-range power cut. It is certain that they will be repeated in the possible case of new acute weather events. What's going on? Is it just weather phenomena? We say no. We don't limit it there. Of course, weather phenomena exacerbate the problem. There are, Minister, deeper causes that will exacerbate the problems of electricity in the future, while cosmopolitan gold pays the wonderful tariffs of PPC. What are these reasons? Firstly, there are significant staff shortages, 50% below what the regulation provides for. Those left work under overworking conditions, circumventing working time, with exhausting hours on shifts twenty-four hours a day, with heat, cold, strong winds, etc. The workshops are obscured with a worker or employer and the necessary craftsmen. Secondly, we have significant deficiencies in essential materials and personal protective equipment: helmets, gloves, columns, meters, screwdrivers, pliers. Even in the zones, which keep the aeronautics tied to columns in most cases, the expiry date has passed. We have a macabre list of fatal accidents. We have hundreds of accidents in Samos, Nea Macris, Amyntino, Ptolemais, Megalopolis, Gaza Heraklion, Woodmara Chania. Thirdly, there are no payrolls, while we have continuous wage reductions, which are 40% to 50% in contractors. There's an old, unconscious network. From a rough estimate of PPC's wooden pillars that exist throughout the country and are a million are rotten. So we ask you, Minister: what measures will you take so that there will be no recurring effects on electricity? Secondly, hire the necessary staff on the basis of needs with permanent and stable work. To stop the miserable and dangerous working conditions. To stop the contractors' status. To stop the cuts and shrinking down of the necessary agencies and sub-optimals and tolls that you have moved forward. Finally, to stop the privatisation and liberalisation of energy, which brings energy poverty to the people and tragic consequences of labour and security problems in the country. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u28	Now, you've asked so many questions that the Minister can answer. That was not a timely question, but a timely question! Anyway, there's going to be a tolerance for the minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u29	It's all dialectically.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u30	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u31	Mr President, you will be flexible in time, I suppose.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u32	Of course, just don't pull it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u33	Thank you. I'll start with the last one. You know that the energy sector is in a transitional phase between the past, which was a state monopoly covering all areas of energy and a new field of operation of the market, which is firstly determined by the climate change agreements that the country has made, namely the need to change the environmental footprint of the energy sector, which is seen in the opening up of new sectors of energy, such as renewables, natural gas, etc. Secondly, the European framework within which an energy policy exists, which provides for a separation of the various activities of the energy sector and the creation of a differentiated participation of a different category of producers and, of course, of public undertakings - PPC will remain the pillar of our system - as well as of private participation. We are ambitious by the bill with the energy cooperatives that there will be much more profound changes in the decentralised system of energy production from various forms, whether consumers or small producers. So the model is changing in this direction too, and I think that the government's thinking, but also everyone, must be that it should be adjusted by maintaining a high level of basic expectations: firstly, with regard to the environmental phenomena, where energy sector has to be reduced; secondly, that there is cheaper energy for the large majority of citizens and businesses and, thirdly, that it is essential to tackle energy poverty effectively. Against this, I think the government has done several things in cooperation with PPC over the last two years. I shall now refer to the questions you have raised about the effects of Crete. Allow me to say that, despite the intensity of bad weather, I think that the whole network - and the TEDEFE played a decisive role, of course, in this - the problems we had were limited in scope. In Heraklion, you are talking about peaking, between 8 and 10 January, there were three holidays in the medium-voltage network, which affected consumers. All three, however, were due to the drop of trees on the network. We had a low trend, that is, in households, two hundred and sixty-eight vacations. The maximum recovery time was five hours and the average recovery time of these two classes was about three hours. I therefore think that even where we had the exacerbation of the problems - in the rest of Crete we had much more limited phenomena - the network responded relatively well and, of course, with the participation of the TEN. With regard to the problems of the TEN itself, please list a large list. I think we should exclude security issues. There are very high safety standards, and so the TEN will continue to work. There are issues relating to staff adequacy. I would remind you, however, that fifteen young workers have been recruited in Crete and a large part of the gaps have been covered, which had been set at the organisation level to cover these gaps. Thirdly, there are a number of requests from the technicians, which we are aware of. But we all recognise that the TEN and PPC, etc. They are trying to adapt to a very pressing economic situation. I think there is an exaggeration element in either material shortages or the encouragement of the company to work in terms and conditions that are incompatible. We know that so far, because there are issues within the company which need to be resolved in a framework of dialogue, we are aware of this dialogue, as it is developing within the company, and we believe that solutions can be found to one or more of the issues you have raised today.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u34	The rest of you say it in your dentistry. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-seven students and students and three educational sessions since the 1st General High School in New Ionia. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I would like to inform you that the process you are monitoring is not a legislative process - then it will follow and, indeed, a bill concerning you, the Ministry of Education - but parliamentary control. In other words, Members from all the wings are asking for topical questions or urgent questions and the ministers of the government in question are answering. This process is being monitored, and that is why you can only see the Members having questions in the Chamber. Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u35	Minister, I fully understand how difficult it is to justify unjustified. The reality is completely different. I don't work in PPC, nor do I get it out of my head. These are problems for workers, they have been denounced, they are requests from the workers themselves, which we very much adopt. Why can’t you talk about high safety standards when there is no staff, when the existing staff are old, when they don’t have belts, to climb up when the network is not maintained for many years. Because the rhetorical ducts until today were with porcelains. Now it's got to be with insulators. I don't know, they call it the workers themselves. How, then, will you ensure high safety standards? And after all, what does the DEDDA want to ensure? The reduction of a medium-term profit, i.e., for its benefit. So there will also be a circumvention of the daily time and much more. In relation to power breaks, it's not what you call them. After all, these have also been said by the workers, they have seen the light of publicity, but we have also seen them on tours we have made in these areas. For example in Heraklion, the whole town of Heraklion stayed free of electricity for too many hours in many districts. In Agia Varvara Gortyna, in Archanes, in Krona, in Kokkini Hanni, in Kaminia, in Yofufro, in Panoneo, in the area of Agios Minas. In Rethymnon, thirty-six villages were left without power. Also in the province of Sfakion, in East Celino, in your area, in the Lefkada, in Krapi, in Thessaloniki, in Ptolemaida, in Western Greece, in Zakynthos, in Kefalonia, in Lefkada. Didn't you see that? Do you fully agree with the announcement in the press release issued by PPC, which says 'all goes well, are we fully prepared'? However, at the same time, workers were running twenty-four hours a day under these conditions. The recent power cuts, therefore, have highlighted the serious risks to domestic energy security and the service of people's needs by the gradual liberalisation of the market, Minister. At the same time as the electricity system reached its limits, the electricity generation and supply groups benefited from the opportunities offered by the opening up of markets, reaping the days of bad weather an incalculable number of profits. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The European Energy Union, which creates a pan-European energy stock exchange, where profits will come from the deficit or excess electricity at European level, show the way to complete liberalisation of the energy market, for energy poverty that our people will have, the high tariffs that they will not be able to meet and which, of course, jeopardise the security of our country. For the JRC it is clear that your policy and your overall policy are a policy that will lead to energy poverty and additional problems. We have clearly stressed that we need a single state energy body, but under social ownership conditions with central economic planning. You can't be with monopolies and people at the same time. And let workers understand that they must immediately organize their struggle to claim both the immediate demands and problems they face, but also reject these policies that are expressed either with you or with the previous governments, or with those who are working to power in the form of the new political system being prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u36	Mr Minister, you have the floor to answer the substance of the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u37	We should, however, agree on the data: whether this questioned three-day network lasted for the country and we had problems marginally or did not last. Because you are telling me here examples where our claim is that the system has endured, operated and that any damage and inevitably had problems in the prefecture of Chania, Sfakia and some very mountainous areas with problems and in all the list of areas you mentioned have been corrected. Whether it is borderline cases, but where the valuation is different or we have had great problems, as you suggest, which, in my opinion, is a misleading picture. Secondly, with regard to our energy policy, we defended the public character and defended it both in the IPTO and in the networks and in many other sectors, in the PPC itself at 51%. All this is well known. So let me say, however, that we need to move - and here we will agree - in a very different context. I repeat that the markets must obviously be opened. There's a time when we'd have a state monopoly. There will also be a functioning market in energy production and the smooth functioning of renewable sources. We need to go to a different energy mix for climate change reasons, and that is where we agree with the most high targets set by the international conventions signed by the country. We must, obviously, change the operation and open up the space for much more participatory forms of energy production. I return to the idea that the government will bring energy cooperatives. The data are well known. The large part of the photovoltaics is a small activity of small producers, be they farmers, households or other micro-enterprises. So away from us the idea that we're going to a model like what you implied, a complete market liberalisation with scary side effects. On the contrary. We will go together and coordinate in a much more balanced model of energy production and distribution - and I repeat again - ensuring full energy poverty. And I repeat, we have taken too many steps in this area over the last two years, with the social invoice and with many other initiatives that we have taken. Finally, I would like to say this. We are aware of problems that exist in the operation, I repeat, of the TEDEN. We are in dialogue and that is the nature of the discussions. The issues of dialogue are in place and resolved within the data, in the company's opinion, as it stands today.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u38	Let's go to the next two questions, which will be answered by the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Christos Spirtzis, who is present. The first question with number 2112/19-12-2016 will be discussed by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on the speeding up of the necessary interventions at the airport "N. Kazantzakis’ in Heraklion Crete. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. Tourism now contributes about a quarter to gross national product and close to 20% of employment directly and indirectly. Crete is the flagship of tourism in our country. That's all the evidence. Of course, this does not seem to be recognized by the government, since in today's draft law of the Ministry of Education two sections of tourism are being established, but none in Crete. But I come to the question. The entrance and exit gates must be operational and serve the needs of tourism perfectly. Ports and airports must constantly modernise. The airport "Nikos Kazantzakis" of Heraklion is the second to visit and needs operational upgrades. Complementary projects which have long been studied and discussed, however, have not been launched. In particular, the Ministry of Infrastructure in the autumn of 2014, following a term of Michali Chrysochoidis, studied the necessary interventions at the airport and proceeded to a plan and pre-selects, in order to become operational for all the years it takes until Kastellio Airport operates. The studies continued to be prepared, it passed and in 2015, and nothing happened. In the summer of 2016, a conference was held with regional intervention, the municipality of employees and, of course, the people of tourism. All actions are called for to be speeded up in order to implement the projects. In particular, on the question of the east extension of the airport to connect with the port for the needs of the cruise, there are loose ends and, above all, according to the answer given to me by the Ministry, expenditure is pending. For the northern expansion and restructuring - internal reform in terms of what we were asking for from duty-free shops, their final proposal, shops claim that they have given it for approval and have the funding to make this reform, which will serve the maximum. And thirdly, we have the concession of forty acres from the Air Force in order to make the necessary improvements to the environment, parking and service areas. What we want you to know today is what action you have taken so far and what action you intend to take so that another year is not lost, at least for some of the interventions that can be completed until the start of the tourist season. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u40	Mr. Spirjis has the floor. Come on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. My dear colleague, you are right that Crete is the flagship of tourism, as you are also right that the infrastructure that had been on the island for many years had remained behind. Particular infrastructure such as airports must be upgraded. Heraklion does not need a simple upgrade of the existing airport. He needs a new airport. You know that for the new airport in Kastelli, the competition runs. The first phase is completed and we will therefore reasonably have a majority in time and in a five-year period we will have a new airport. For these five years, however, Heraklion and Crete cannot wait. Nikos Kazantzakis Airport has been operating marginally for years. What we have tried - and this year it seemed the difference, although we have had a great deal of increase in tourism and visitors - is not to collapse the airport because it has too much problems. In this context, a number of small projects were carried out. If you want me to give you the list from the Department and the Civil Aviation Department.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u42	You should testify to it in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u43	Sure. The evidence is in the service response. For example, I tell you that there have been deteriorations that have been restored, such as the electric pair, the air conditioners - if I recall correctly, one summer we also had fainting before we as a government - have completed the studies, and in time projects have been planned both to upgrade the track and the existing airport facilities of about 1.5 million euros. I also present the document that shows that we have integrated the Ministry's budget a project of EUR 2 million with a specific number entitled 'Expansion and addition of building complex and the environment of 'Nikos Kazantzakis' in order to be able to go to the upgrade. On the two very important issues you have raised, I have to tell you - from what I have to say - that, for the eastern expansion of the airport, the study has been carried out by the Port Authority of Heraklion. We are in very close cooperation, the final study by the Port Agency has been completed and we are waiting for the corrected submission of the overall study. Once the studies have been completed and submitted, it will be followed by the approval of credit by the competent body which is the EEAS - NSA. For the northern expansion and the reform of the institutions, indeed the CEECs are saying - and they are committed - that they will go ahead with the final study, but also with the funding. [[At this point, Minister Christos Spirtzis presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] The last contact we had was at the end of October 2016. They submitted a general plan and since then their commitment to submit a complete study and construction dossier for this new proposal. In fact, even tomorrow morning if the OEMs want to come to my office, let us move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u44	The rest you can tell in your dentistry, Minister. I think you were specific. Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u45	Mr President, we have heard today why fainting has stopped.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u46	As a doctor, I have to say that's good.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u47	If it were true, it would be good. Obviously, the Minister did not want to say - even though he said - that since we started counting tourists in our country forty-five years ago, we started with a million and a half million for our country and today we are at twenty-five million. This means that this number has gradually evolved. The infrastructure of private individuals and public authorities has gradually evolved, although it should be noted that the public has always come behind the private initiative in this area, which is indeed the heavy industry in our country today. This is also apparent from the contribution to GDP and employment, as I said at the outset. So we need improved gates of entry and exit. It's over! We need to turn the whole thing over there. The last impression left in the tourist is the airport. If he is troubled if someone faints and debates all over the airport, etc. .....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u48	First and last.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u49	And the first impression, but the first impression changes if it's not bad, because it comes to Crete, enjoys the natural beauty, hospitality and all the good things we offer and so this first bad impression is dealt with. That's why I'm talking about the last one. The last impression, then, is that he will move home. And these are called "good customs" for the tourism of Crete and our country. So that means that the Ministry must speed up the action because it had said the same thing to me two months ago, it had said the same to me six months ago. The Prime Minister went to Crete as well and pledged. Mr. Dess and others had gone ahead. Look, with regard to the projects in relation to the linking of the port for the cruise, you can immediately authorise credit to auction. The studies are ready. There is nothing to be done but the approval of credit on your part. That is the point at which the Ministry has not yet made progress, and it is obviously not the auction for that reason. The second point I would like to raise is that I see a blockade. He says that on 7 November - you spoke for October - they sent a letter confirming their intention to finance and implement this work, which is studied and we only need the final timetable. Today, the answer you give me is a little behind the written one. Written is better, I'd say. So please contact Mr Lingerakos and the PSC directly - this is my request - to proceed with cooperation with the OEMs and with the relevant departments, so that you do not make direct contact with contractors and companies, because that is bad and you are not protected. I'm telling you for other reasons. Contact with the services must be made with documents and in accordance with the rules applicable to the Greek State. This reform at the new airport is very necessary and I hope that it will take place in four years and not in the five that you have said. After all, we are all in favour of this perspective. But over the seven years before us, these upgrades really have to be made. Press the Minister of Defense too to make the concession of the site out. Mr. Kammenos abolished 126 Battle Colonel. He abolished it. There's no 126 Battle Colonel anymore. So since there is no 126 Battle Brigade, there can be a redecoration of spaces to serve the great need for Heraklion airport. Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in the question pending for Panormo - Exante, you can come to me whenever you can and do not send me the State Secretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u50	That's not elegant.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u51	It's a request. It's been postponed seven times.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u52	It's a request, but it's okay! Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u53	Thank you very much. As long as I'm in Athens, Mr. Kegeroglu. Tomorrow I won't be in Athens, which is why I'm saying it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u54	The solution is that where your State Secretary must be, you'll give him a mandate to be. And not just to be you, to come to the State Secretary's foot. You'll give him a mandate to be in the House. That's the answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u55	Sure. This has been given. But I have a special weakness Mr. Kegeroglu wants to see me. First of all, let me say that I undertake to approve credit, but if the final studies are submitted by the Port Authority of Heraklion. They have not been deposited and have not been approved. I cannot commit and approve credit without having specific studies. In the document sent to you by Mr. Lingerakos, the Civil Aviation Service mentions it elegantly. It goes on to say that on 7 November: however, prior to the drafting by the OEM of the final and implementation studies - that is, they have not yet been submitted - the award of which has already been made, but have not been submitted, there has been no final timetable for their implementation by the OEM. So from the OEM, we have two gaps. Evidently, the OEMs will first come to an agreement with the OSH and will finalise it. We don't have any business with this. This is the work of the Civil Aviation Service. Last night we were with Mr. Lingeraco. Be sure to communicate very often. And that's why we're committed. Now, the Minister of National Defence has made this concession since May 2016.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u56	It's two hundred sixty square blocks. That's another one. I'm talking about forty acres.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u57	Forty acres, all right! That is what I believe it will be, Mr Kegeroglu, with the completion of the studies by the Port Agency. There's no problem with the Department of Defense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u58	Me too, Minister. Let's go to the seventh with 440/6-2-2017 a top-level question for the first-round question of the Athens MP Mr.Georgios Amyras to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport on the abuse of money by metro employees. Here, Mr. Amyras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u60	Don't bother the Minister. My colleague's talking. Mr. Tasoula, excuse me, but the topical question has been interrupted. After the conversation. Here, Mr. Amyras, you have the floor. I've been fixing the time in the first place.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr President. And that's why we mainlanders are growing up, that's why it happened. Good morning, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Minister, in the rhetorical question, who wants to become a millionaire, it is certain that most, if not all, will say they want to. A few, though, will succeed. Amongst these few are a group of subway employees who found a very smart trick to abuse the money from tickets and unlimited routes that people pay. What did these employees do? They defectively withdrew a large number of tickets and unrestricted travel cards, and then reinstated them, these supposedly damaged tickets, at points of sale, and they received the money themselves. This does not mean that the accounting records of these sales on the day-to-day metro fund list did not appear as receipts, it is understood in the minutes of the Committee on the Counting of Sacred Receipts. In simple terms, therefore, only in 2015 these employees were abused EUR 1,156,000. I would like to ask the Minister, then, what stage is the case? Has she been investigated as a whole? I ask whether there may be more money that has been abused by other years and by other ticket traffic. What's the control done? In particular, I, my dear Minister, am concerned about this and I am concerned about it. How does a team of employees get under the nose of the control addresses making these kinds of smilings, say it like that, and forgive me for the expression. I will come back to change the system and the procedure for checking tickets in my dentistry. But the basic thing is if it is just this damage, 1,150,000 euros, or if we have more money that has been abused by these officials. Also, how many are in, what addresses, but what are the stages of preventive control? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u62	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Amyras, unfortunately, it wasn't just the metro stuff. As you know very well, this was the one trick and it wasn't just for the year 2015 that was found. It was several years ago. The second was what was revealed during the summer and caught factory that typed and fake tickets, as well as regular fake tickets with double numbers. In fact, it was from the company that had taken over the ticket contest in collaboration with a factory abroad. I would like to thank you for the question you have asked, because at last a few things have to be done and not only by press releases or by press releases. For about a year now, there has been an investigation by the general inspector, who has come to an end and the finding has recently come out. This conclusion includes only in 2015 and only the money that was from the metro funds, compared to the return tickets. It does not include automatic ticket vendors, it does not include all metro stations, as you can see, and does not include in the previous years. In the note sent for answer and information to your question, the inspector-general says that he will continue and continue research in these fields. It has been sent to the competent prosecutors, to the financial services making the checks. Money can't be determined. The specific money from these stations is $1,150,000. But here there are very specific responsibilities and agencies, as well as administrations. And there are specific responsibilities, because there has been some time since the procedures that had to be in existence were not in terms of collecting money, but also in terms of checks and matching the data coming from the stations, so that we have such phenomena by 2015. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] And I believe that the implementation of the electronic ticket will be a very great breath for economic and social policies that we need to do and move from urban transport. There's too much money lost through such circuits or through the fake tickets and the rings of counterfeit tickets. We have not yet detected - and that is why research is being carried out - whether these circuits had a relationship with each other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u64	Before I give the floor to Mr Amyras, and if there is time, Minister, remember answering me - although what I asked was not due to fraud, such as now denounced by my colleague Mr Amyras - what is going on in the general tax evasion of public transport, because of the lack of staff there and not because of fraud. Here, Mr. Amyras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President. Part of my second-guessing and questions I think they are also part of what the President has just said. It is truly sad, sad and worrying to see that on a great project that helped Athens, like the Airport "Eleftherios Venizelos", the International Airport of Spatas, which changed attitudes in the way that citizens and users manage and perceive the public space, they bloom the well-known "buds" that devoured public money. I am therefore waiting, Mr Minister, for you to give us an overall account of the findings of the General Public Administration Inspectorate, so that we can finally see how big this phenomenon was. And let me ask this: are these employees and these directorates, who have not done their job properly, going to suffer the consequences? Or will it simply, through the well-known'strong' procedure with the engagement, with the service councils that never meet and never meet, come after two, three, five, ten years to be unaware of their positions? This is a matter that concerns us all. We need to know if these employees, who were hand-held in the honey jar, would cut their hand. And what about the money that's been abused? Will there ever be the possibility and the way to get the Greek public back? But I would like to ask something more specific, dear Minister: in the spring of 2015 it changed from the counting area of SAS SA. the metro controls the movement and sale of tickets. Did the roads open for more transparency or did the roads open for more fraud? That is a crucial question. I would like you, Minister, to tell us why the control procedure has changed and if it has been shown that it was a move that was wicked and if we were to come back into a system better, so that we do not have the same problems. In conclusion, I would like to say that as a journalist and I must recognise the sources. So I think some journalists have done a very good job. They are journalists of the newspaper "KATHMERINI" and journalists of the newpost.gr, such as Thanos Paschalis, a well-known journalist, who constantly raises issues of this quality, which are unfortunately confirmed by reality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, too, Mr. Amyras, for being consistent in your time. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr President. I will try to be brief because it is a very serious matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u68	...which he might not have come. Not to have existed, I mean, and not to have come.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u69	It would have been better if there hadn't been any such phenomena. But that is to be done, we must also ensure procedures and serious reliable control mechanisms. Mr President, I think that ticket escapes is a big issue with regard to our fellow citizens who do not have the social conscience to ring the ticket. After the inclusion of the category of citizens who are unemployed to move free of charge plus the previous groups that were joined, it is indeed a matter of social awareness from there and beyond about who does not ring a ticket. I think this can't be fought by putting two auditors on every bus or subway. I believe that this is about the education that we need to have as a society or with systems, such as what we are going to implement in February and to complete it in April. In full application will be in June, because we will have a period of dual application of the online ticket with existing tickets.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u70	Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u71	Yeah, I'll tell you. There is no question of personal data. He did a very good job and the OSCE and the Personal Data Authority. It cannot be repeated by a public body what has been done by private bodies, to sell the elements of the citizens right and left, or to have any access to which each one of us is moving. It is therefore ensured that those elements which must be located on different bases are not crossed. And that's the most important thing. With regard to the ticket evasion of those citizens who do not beat their ticket, they do not cancel it, to say that the circuits unfortunately have cost a lot more than ticket evasion. I say that with full awareness of what is going on. We have taken the necessary steps and in consultation to exclude them from one to four, to take staff and not to pay for overtime and overtime, which costs much more. But here, we also have a few issues. And I'm not saying this to plunge the climate: you asked who is responsible and why the procedures - if they changed - in the spring of 2015. First of all, the officials who have been found - there are three to me - seem to me to be the ones to whom specific responsibilities have been attributed - have already been fired and the investigation is continuing for the rest. But there are two reports, Mr Amyras. One is the 2012 Internal Audit Report, which, if necessary, I will submit.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u72	I need to. You should testify.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u73	Sure. The other report is 2014 - on the mandate of the President and CEO, Mr Papathanassis - which says about these things, notes the shortcomings in the procedure. Nothing. Absolutely nothing. And if nothing else here exists...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u74	What's the second date?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u75	I'll testify to her, too. It is March 2014, Mr President. I am tabling them both, because these two reports seem to have started from 2012, but perhaps even beforehand. And from the internal audit report and then 2014, where the counting order was given, there were other problems of this kind. [[At this point, Minister Christos Spirtzis presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] I also have the report of the general inspector. It is at the disposal of any Member of Parliament who wants it. As the research is under way, I will give it to the Bureau and anyone who wants it to be informed. I'll give it to Mr. Kaklamani. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u76	Thank you very much, Minister. We're going to the last two questions, which incidentally belongs to the Ministry of Education. And I say coincidence in the sense that it follows after a draft law of the Ministry of Education. The first question will be discussed under number 437/3-2-2017 in the second cycle of the New Democracy MP, Savvas Anastasiades, Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the completion of the Greek school complex Munich. The question will be answered by the State Secretary for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr Zouraris. Mr Anastasiades, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr President. The Munich School case is well known. In summary, however, we can say that the Greek state, as part of the support and support for the Greeks of Munich, agreed in 2001 with the Municipality of Munich, and bought, instead of a symbolic price, a five-acre property in order to build a school complex for the needs of the Greeks of Munich, with a clause to reverse the sale and return the land to Munich if the work had not been completed within this timeframe. The delays in the mid-term, Minister, led to the project not being completed and in April 2015 to sign a supplementary decision, an additional agreement, an amending contract with the Greek Government - Mr Pelogrinis had managed it then as the Minister of Finance - with the absolute commitment that the project would have been completed by the end of 2012. It was then requested and given by the German side and an extension of six months if there was a problem and it had not gone well. In July 2016, the German side noted that no progress had been made and by decision the plot was returned to the German State to the Municipality of Munich. And while this aim of the Greek school of Munich originally was to tighten the relationships and mutual understanding of the two peoples, as the subject is evolving, it can eventually further exacerbate the relations of the two peoples. This issue is a dominant and primary problem for the Greeks of Munich, who follow it closely. He has also dealt with the approved magazine 'Der Spiegel' and 'Deutsche Welle'. I say this to give the dimension that has taken this issue. So the risk of losing today the possibility of having a Greek private school in Munich, with the responsibility of the current government, is now visible. And in such a case, you realise, Minister, that damage will also be caused to the Greek State, but above all, the authority of the Greek Government abroad will be affected, and we will be exposed to our relatives, who are following the matter with great anxiety. So you ask, Mr Minister, following the decision of the Municipality of Munich, what action has the Greek Government taken or intends to take to enable the school of Munich to be completed and to be delivered to the needs of the Greeks of Munich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-three students and students and two educational attendants from the 1st Petroupoli High School (first section). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u79	My respects, Mr. President. My colleague's question has accurate information. We also know because of this time, that we cannot go back to the whole. Observe, beard. Seven years there was the frugality of the Germans, for the perpetrators objected to objections. After, in 2007 to 2012 and with Greece's involvement in these Memorandum commitments and filtrations, the triarchy prevented the execution of the projects, i.e. the payment of the money, of our own rate. The 1901 clause, perhaps, of reversal, was unfortunate law. I asked legal judges - and I am a former legal officer - and the reversal clause should be of an indicative nature and not imperative, as it is now. The question is: From the 20-7-2016, validated by the Munich City Council, the Federal Government intervened. So at the moment everything has been suspended, because there is an internal discussion between the Federal Government and the Bavaria. The proposal is compromise, because the Federal Government has told them that there is a question of immunity, because if there is any dispute between us, the Greek Government and the municipal council, the Munich municipality, it must be tried in Greece and it has proposed that there should be a federal plot and leave us calm. It's about there. At the last session, together again, there was a tripartite perception among each other, and this is essentially a matter of hovering concern. We now as the Ministry of Education expect the Germans' decision, which will have a tendency to leave the plot to us - so we do not have the problems that we had until August 2016 - or to grant us another plot that our Munich community agrees with. Absolute rejection version appears to be not to exist. We are now waiting for the intra-German decision to tell us about the fate - because it hovers - of the situation and we will do so. We are therefore waiting, because at the moment we have no choice, because there is an internal German debate, with an agreement of our own. We are therefore waiting for the Germans' decision, for each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u80	The Germans, of course, are accused of bureaucracy, but from what I understand they are not going back too. Since August 2016, they haven't given a reply. And we're in February 2017. Mr Anastasiades, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u81	The prehistoric story is well known, as you mentioned, Minister. What you said, of course, is all theoretical, because we have nothing in practice. The information tells us that the mayor of Munich is angry with the Greek side and accepts no talk and no debate. Efforts have also been made to bring about closer together from our side, from my fellow Members, Mr Prussakis and Mr Charakopoulos. Somewhere there is the point, but we haven't had any real and official responses since then. The essence of the matter, however, is that despite all the delays you have mentioned - and that is how it is - the government's responsibility is enormous, because in April 2015 we actually had a new convention. In fact, we have also made an absolute commitment at that time by Mr Peglerin. I would ask - and I formally ask you here - for the contract to be awarded to us, so that we can see what Mr Pelogrinis had signed, what the Greek Government had signed at the time, about what the commitment was, to see where we should pay tribute. You, of course, are very recent Minister and you were not involved in this process. The government then, and Mr Pelogrinis, instead of resurrecting and completing the project, asked for an extra extension. She got one, but the second she couldn't make it. So on July 20th, the municipality decided to return the school. It is clear, therefore, that there are the government's responsibilities, because the Minister for Infrastructure, Mr Spirtzis, who was here earlier, but also Mr Peglerin, in this Chamber, confirmed that the money has been committed to the budget and has been disbursed to the relevant bank to complete the projects, which, it seems, had not happened. It is characteristic and the statement by Mr.Pelogrin here, in this Chamber, that: "We have opened a special account with the Munich Munich Munich municipality to confirm the municipality's firm and uninterrupted financing of the project." Money has never been disbursed to this account. It is now clear that there are responsibilities and must be attributed, so that these phenomena are not repeated. We in the direction of strengthening Greece's position and negotiating, to close with this issue, namely to lift the Munich municipality's decision and allow us to complete the project, we will also be allies. It is a question of Hellenism and we are not party to it. But the government in this particular process is exposed to its commitments to the Germans and, of course, to the homosexuals, because it was not consistent with what it had undertaken to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u82	Here, Mr. Zurari, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u83	Mr Colleague, there is this. It was also noted by the President of the sitting. There is at the moment a lack of room for manoeuvre because of the Germans' internal debate. Very recently, a little less than ten days ago, there was again consultation. The Pegliny story is pretty old now. We had contacts again, and at the moment there is an endo-German outstanding. Their tendency is to have a favourable situation for us, but there is the following thing that we may have to consider. By its decision of 13 August 2015, the Ministry of Education and the possibility of financing our own, with ADD: 7TZP465VTH - 2X5, the funding and the involvement, which Pelogrinis mentioned, and the money entered the Ministry of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism. It is therefore not the responsibility of the Ministry of Education. As of 13 August 2015, the possibility of using the amount has been suspended from the triarchy, by the so-called troika, because it did not grant permission to release part of the money. Meanwhile, we've paid the law firm. Therefore, we are ready to relaunch the debate. We need to know, however, that even if the Germans accept the solution proposed by their Federal Government, the Bavarians may be involved in the tririarchy based in the Ministry of Finance and the Troika. It's not automatic. We do not have, ladies and gentlemen, as a Greek government, the same authority since 2010 as the Swiss Government, for example. I think we all understand that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u84	Mr Peglinis and the government should have known this when they signed the convention.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u85	The worst part of all is that in order to make repairs or to make schools its Greek foreign must be approved by the Troika. That's the worst, not all the rest.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u86	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u87	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the educational program "Workery Democracy" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-eight students and students and two educational attendants from the 40th Piraeus Municipal School. The House welcomes them. We are reaching the last timely question to which the Minister for Education, Mr Constantine Gavroglou, will reply. It is the fourth with number 445/6-2-2017 a topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education for Research and Religious Affairs regarding the exceptional acceptance of applications for students who are registered for the Technical Education Institutions (TEI). Mr. Delia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u88	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, this is a well-known matter for you. There was also a relative mobilisation in your Ministry a few days ago. We are talking about two hundred and seventy children, students of the TEIs, whose applications for relocation were accepted exceptionally, are not accepted by the TEI of Athens. Of course, the reason why these children and thousands of others - over 12 thousand this year were applications for relocation to the higher education institutions in our country - is well known. Most families find it difficult or unable to study their children away from home. In any case, we think that you should take initiatives in this respect, without wanting to dismiss the responsibilities which the institutions themselves have, namely the Athens TEI which refuses to accept these applications. To say here that exceptional applications have not been accepted - again - as has not been accepted and all applications for relocations. Even half of them were not accepted. Even so, however, calmness and smoothness in the lives of these children, who are at risk of losing their first six months of study, should be restored so that they can continue their career without problems. We think the problem is hot and we expect your answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u89	Minister, since this is a relevant matter, and because there is an outstanding question you have asked your SYRIZA colleagues to Mr Baltas, if there is time to discuss the problem with the student pass, which, after enrolmental examinations, goes for a second degree. These students don't deserve a pass. It's not new. It's timeless. I think it is an injustice that we all have to see together and above all for students who have spent in provincial schools and have no possibility of a discount. If you've seen the matter. Let's look at it. Here, you have the floor. You'll have a tolerance to answer that, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u90	I am pleased, Mr President, because I see you today in a radical and agonist mood, as always, so that we make it public. Mr President, you are right about what you have said. It has to be solved. We're investigating it. Just know these kids weren't entitled to books, writings...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u91	This issue has been resolved.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u92	The subject is solved. Now for Mr Delis' question, I would like to say: I am glad that for the first time we are in agreement with Mr Delis. What do we mean? Refills are a very problematic process. You know, it's a Greek phenomenon. But the government has seen it - especially in the last two years - with very great esteem, because there is a real problem. When the state cannot secure residence conditions for students away from home and obviously any possibilities are very limited, then it really has to go to use this measure of relocations. We did everything we could and I think no one has any complaints this year, after all, these are not commissioned by the computer, they are made by programs where all the data are taken into account and they are completely objective. Now, in order to understand what is happening, I will say: there are translations. They go to sections that are not the ones they have achieved, but because they want to be close to their home or near their brothers, if they are from multiple families, they go to new divisions. Some of the new departments refuse to register them. The law says they have to register them, regardless of whether they want to appeal to the Council of State or not. We, therefore, - especially for the TEI, because the problem is the Athens TEI, all the other sections have shown a tolerance to this social reality - we said that we will support them financially according to the number of students enrolled, that we will give them additional positions from the barren elections that will take place due to the many seats that exist, whatever positions are left, we will give them to these departments. We also said that at the Athens TEI we will also resolve an issue that had practical experience. And we'll solve it in consultation with the Department of Health. We promised the children who came to the Ministry, who had very reasonable demands, that they should be registered in the departments, that the law says that. The Athens TEI promised us that regardless of whether they are going to resort or not they will write it down. And I'm hearing today that they didn't do it. The services this morning were instructed to proceed to all disciplinary and administrative measures against the administration in order to oblige the administration to follow - I insist - the law. Games on the back of these children, and any student, we will not tolerate in the framework of the laws and ministerial decisions that exist. I am also calling on the Presidents, the conventions of these chambers, etc., not to create a tension when they do not follow the law. So I would ask them to register these students. If they want to appeal to the Council of State, let us do so and see what the Council of State will decide. I would ask, however, very much, as part of our commitments - and both economic and institutional - to proceed with the registration of these students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u93	Mr. Delis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr President. I will only say a word, a phrase, on the criteria for transfer, because you have presented them, Minister, as a technical issue that emerged on its own. The criteria set for the relocations are, of course, the choice of governments - the former and yours - which are mobilising them, respectively. It is therefore human work and is not alone there. And for that reason students, children who have succeeded in a university who want to be translated, because they don't get the necessary number of these molecules from the criteria, they're excluded. But that doesn't mean they don't need it. We also said in our prototype that over 12 thousand are the children who made applications for relocation this year. Now, by yourself a moment ago, you have described the approach, in a more general way, to this issue, namely that education institutions should be strengthened with the relevant staff. They should be financed accordingly. But what should have been done yesterday, while you added the molecule 'will', before what you said, which sounds like a simple promise and which we do not know and when it is implemented. In any case, because this is a matter of urgency, and because four months are afflicted by these children, we tell all the children to get their relocation, because everything has a reason to do so. And the reason, as we said, is well known. Therefore, you must press even more for these promises - and not for them to remain as usual - so that, if you wish, the last excuse put forward by these institutions or any institutions will be removed, however, so that they do not accept the relocations, the student's requests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u95	The Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr. Konstantinos Gavroglou, has the floor. I think we're going in the right direction, so you don't need much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, despite your silence on this matter, I understand that you agree with the way in which we are going to resolve the issue at the Athens TEI. I say this to solve one - one - because that is your question, and that is what we have to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u97	It's not a silence. We're saying you have responsibilities too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u98	No, no. Look, we said about this particular problem. You are now saying that we should have translated all applications, that is to say, that the numbers are more than threefold and that the whole system should be broken down.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u99	This is the second leg.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u100	Let the Minister answer. Besides, it's the bill after all and you can come back.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u101	So we agree on the Athens TEI. And you must also take a position on this issue and say that especially on this very narrow subject, we agree with the government that they should be registered and that the Ministry should proceed to all legal actions for students to be registered. Yes or no? I think you're saying yes to that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u102	I told you to press and take your responsibilities.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u103	That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u104	You say so.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u105	So we agree. We're saying the same thing. It's not bad to agree, even to small things, with the government. Little ones. With regard to the rest of you, the subject of the relocations I insist that it is a matter which applies exclusively - and I am almost sure - in our country. This has to do with how the distribution of our population is structured and on this basis, how higher education is structured and where universities exist. Moreover, for decades there has been no projection for homes, for student care, etc. We, as I have said here, will bring a five-year plan on the subject of restaurants by June. Fountains are not done by pressing a button. So the subject of student care and welfare is a matter that we are studying and committing before the end of the academic year to bring. I insist. In five years' depth, because these things are not solved by direct moves. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u107	We enter the supplementary agenda of LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs of the State Certificate of Language, the National Library of Greece and other provisions. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 3 February 2017 to discuss the draft law at a meeting. I therefore propose that the debate should become uniform in principle, articles and amendments. I am not a member of this debate, since I would like to see how many colleagues will be registered. At the same time, the inclusion of colleagues as usual will be as soon as the system is opened, i.e. once SYRIZA's colleague Mr Michalis has come up, and the new Republic's rapporteur Mr Kerameos will be shut down as soon as the Step is taken. So far, and as far as we have been informed, only parliamentary amendments have been tabled. We don't have ministers. So there won't be any rubes. Let's hope that's how it works. When he comes up, the Minister will answer - I will ask him if he is ready - for the parliamentary amendments so that the Members will know in advance what is being accepted and what is not. Is there any objection to the basic recommendation of the procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u108	So the House unanimously agreed. The rapporteur for SYRIZA, Mr Athanasios Michalis, has the floor for 15 minutes. Depending on how many colleagues there will be a relative tolerance, so as not to arrive at midnight. Mr. Michalis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u109	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I refer specifically to this draft law, I consider it necessary to address the issues that have been raised in the Committee on Morphic Affairs, which may be discussed today in plenary. First issue. The urgency of the draft law is necessarily the result of the urgency of at least two abstract dates. One is the beginning of the transfer process and the second is the date of statements of the selection of schools of the Third High School of Applicants. Second matter. The common characteristics of a draft "broom", unconnected, which has no beginning, middle and end, obviously ignore or intentionally ignore the complexity of the legislation and the multi-teaching of the public administration, a situation in which others, beyond the current government, are also creators and responsible. Third matter. Any views expressed in the Committee on Education, Youth, Education and the Media, which may be expressed today, can be considered as sound and usable if they are based on current concrete data. I'm setting an example. It cannot be argued that special treatment is degraded, when, at the Government of SYRIZA, the special education establishments in the schools increased by hundreds, six hundred more, and the appointments of special education courses exceeded ten thousand compared with about five thousand in the previous years. This has happened without any particular changes in the country's total school population over the last two years. Of course, one will object to how quantitative indicators have been improved, but what is being done with quality? I'd say we'd see that, too. I note, however, that, as a general rule, the requests - unfortunately - concern quantitative indicators (number of pupils, number of appointments of teachers, etc.). I am referring to the opinions expressed, because since the debate so far, I have led to the assessment that most of the articles have a conglomerate of opinions. It is understandable, of course, that the opposition's attempt to diversify itself and seek ways of criticising. However, more useful are the substantiated proposals. Today's debate will show the final outcome. Let's see the bill now. This is structured in five chapters. With the articles of Chapter I, the successful institution of examinations by the public education system is improved to obtain a state certificate of language, i.e. the possibility for all students to be examined by a public body for a state and evaluable language certificate. It extends electronically, in addition to additional electronic assistance to students beyond the school programme. Infrastructure and know-how for electronic examination and assistance already exists from three public bodies, the ERCF, the ERCF and the ERCF - Diophane of the Ministry. It is obvious that this measure, as it improves, mainly supports the economically weak and, of course, harms the interests of all kinds of private foreign language education institutions. For that very reason, social benefit to the economically weak students was not heard by the opposition. Instead, the owners of private educational institutions were asked to express their views. Good. We didn't expect them to tell us anything. With the articles of the 2nd Capital, the issues of the orderly functioning of the National Library of Greece are regulated by the relocation to the new infrastructure under the name of the Cultural Centre - "Stavros Niarchos". In detail, its legal form is defined as a legal person governed by public law and its name. The National Library, as well as all its services, is to be established. It extends its purpose. It is planned to maintain the system of command at two levels. A collective body which is the Board of Directors and a single body which is its Director-General. A strategic and operational plan shall be established. With the articles of Chapter III, issues of primary and secondary education are dealt with. In particular, the Single Number of Students is established in primary and secondary and public and private education. It is obvious that it will help to better organize the student’s course. Of course we must and will ensure confidentiality of personal data. I would point out that any objections, particularly those of private schools, which seem to me to be diligently seeking to avoid the registration of either pupils or teachers, have been removed. Let's ask ourselves why. There are school tours and all kinds of travel of pupils and teachers from school units. In particular, the approval of movements is transferred by the regional director of each region to the regional training director. And it is worth wondering how this was translated as a limitation of the selflessness of school units. It is obvious that the regional director of education and the best knowledge of the subject is more competent in any case. And I do not wish to expand any further since all of us will have heard of school excursions. The contracts of the school cleaners are extended. It is a chronic problem that needs to be tackled radically and lastingly. The pre-service of teachers, who have worked for years as matures from the end to the end of the country, is fully recognized. Special education issues are regulated. I referred more specifically to my predecessor about this. They are favourably regulated for PES students on the issues of their learning development. It is a first step, an incentive to support vocational education. Imports to higher education are regulated. The article refers to special classes of pupils and is favourable to them. Minority education issues are regulated. The responsibilities of the Ministry of Education's services are streamlined. In particular, it is set up as a separate private education department from the already existing sections of other addresses dealing with this subject. I note this in order to make comments on the need for new appointments, etc. They deal with matters of responsibility of the Secretariat-General for Lifelong Learning and New Generation, the new composition of the GSP, the Recognition of Professional Qualifications, and of course the need for more rapid examination and recognition of qualifications. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a very serious problem of the recognition of qualifications and, above all, of professional rights. There is an incredible Cylon, and this council will have a very difficult task to do. The National Council for Human Resources Education and Development is set up, which is a special consultative body to the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs. It should be noted that this replaces, therefore, the National EIS Board of Education, as well as its individual councils. With the articles of Chapter IV, issues of higher education are dealt with. I am briefly referring to the following three years: the term of the assistant professors of HII and the upper limit per school of the students who are part-time teachers of HIIs is three years old. Redefined the occupational status of assistant teachers and the potential of their academic development and regulated themes of the selection of teachers. Participation in the selective bodies is given by teleconferencing those teachers of the same HEI are located in more than one city. It is defined as the year of retirement of school teachers at the IOIs at the end of the academic year in which the sixty-seventh year of their age is completed. Graduate students of HEIs are given the opportunity to study in lessons of both six months of study, in spring and winter, then, of course, by a decision of the branch or school assembly. Appropriate re-election is provided for a term of office of the EDPS, EDPS and the EIB representatives, in the Senate of the EDDs. This arrangement is deemed necessary due to the small number of above-mentioned staff categories in several HR. Students' health and safety issues are regulated. They deal with issues of the integration of the staff of the EIB category of staff in the EDPS category, as well as the post-transition of teachers into the categories of EDPS, EDPS. They complement and improve the existing provisions for the National School of Public Health by regulating the service status of the staff member at this school of academic staff. Issues related to the development and proper functioning of the Greek Open University are regulated. The Board of Directors of the State Scholarship Foundation shall be set up with a view to the effective functioning of the Foundation. IATAP issues are regulated. A Department of Tourism Studies at the University of Piraeus and Department of Economic and Management at the University of the Aegean is hereby established. It is established, in fact, from the already existing departments, a multi-technical school at the University of Ioannina, regulated organizational issues of the school and renamed the School of Social, Economic and Political Sciences of the University of Crete to a School of Social Sciences of the University of Crete. Research issues are regulated. Chapter E contains an article of the repealed provisions. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say briefly: when we legislate we cannot take into account the specific data, data in general on the country's economic potential, data on this particular area, which we are talking about in this regard in education, historical data on how we have reached the current problems of education. I believe that every good observer finds the same data regardless of his political and ideological viewpoint. Our diversity lies in what we want to change, because and for the benefit of whom. A serious political debate is how it appreciates things, and so it is evolving. It avoids general complaints and personal reports. That is what we have sought, and that is what we will continue to do. We are voting in favour of this draft law because it solves problems, whether small or large, for the benefit of everyday life, rationality, but also socially weak pupils and working teachers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u110	Me too, Mr. Comrade. We did well to keep time. If we go like this, based on the number of Members registered - it will be about thirty - I think about 20.00, plus half an hour, we can be done. Before giving the floor to Mrs Kerameou, I would like to read the letter from Mr Hatzidakis. "Mr President, because of my absence abroad, I request permission from the Greek Parliament to abstain from 9 February to 10 February. Kostis Hatzidakis". Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u111	The House therefore approved the requested permission. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mrs Kerameo, has the floor. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, education is not a micro-party controversy and controversy area. It is a place of shock and collective work for the highest goal, which is no more than the improvement of the future of our children. And the New Democracy has proved to support broad consensus when they move in the right direction. So, Minister, we have come with sincere intentions in the dialogue on education on the upgrading of the High School, which began a few weeks ago, so we consented to the recommendation from you of the committee to study its educational finances by proposing experts of unknown prestige. But today, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot consent to a broom bill, which has been introduced into this House by means of express procedures, which reach the limits - let me - of parliamentary embezzlement. And I am talking about ridicule because, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you cannot, on the one hand, organize an open dialogue on the upgrading of high school and, on the other, bring a bill with urgency, a bill on primary education, secondary education, higher education, lifelong learning, special education and training, non-formal learning, research. In short, it is a bill that touches almost all the fields of education, allowing Members to study the individual provisions for just forty-eight hours. All of this, once you yourself, Minister, have agreed with your document to the President of Parliament that there is only urgent procedure for two of the seventy regulations contained in the bill. Mr. Michalis, for two the Minister said in his document. And we have proposed to you, Minister, that you bring these two arrangements in urgent procedure, but the remaining sixty-eight bring them in by normal procedure. You didn't, and you didn't explain why you didn't. The citizens who are watching us can draw their own conclusions. They can draw their conclusions because you did not want to enter into a normal dialogue for all these very serious arrangements, which touch almost all the range of education. And, ladies and gentlemen, what am I talking about? Why you cannot simply propose the setting-up of a committee, which will study its education finances, so that policies can be planned on the basis of real costs from now on. And to be honest, you did this, and that is why we supported it, but you cannot, on the one hand, do this, recommend this committee for the study of education finances and on the other hand, present a bill, a large part of which is obsolete, because you have not given the General Accounting Office of the State the information, so that it can assess the costs incurred in the state budget. I am talking about ridicule, because there was no public consultation before, except for two of the thirty-five provisions of the bill. And what two? Those who gather the broadest consensus of this House on the state certificate of language. No consultation! The relevant bodies appear to have been pre-considered. People from all over Greece were invited, who had to study the extensive and complex bill of fifty-six pages, to meet together to illustrate their positions and to go to Athens in order to expose these views. All this, within 12 hours. Unfortunately, some bodies were unable to do this and therefore failed to come to the committee and to interact with the members of the Committee on Forums. I am talking about mockery, because you have circumvented the right of Members to vote in writing. The draft law was introduced by thirty-two articles. Most of these included completely different settings, culminating in an article that included seventeen different settings. After our own intense pressure, the Minister agreed to break down some of them. But I ask, Minister, have we finally given you a solution to the problems of understanding with your government partner? I say this because you have gladly moved on to the division of paragraph 5 by Article 7. What did paragraph 5 say? For the acquisition of Greek citizenship by students in Greek schools. And why did you break it? Because the ANELs were to vote against. Oper and done. So where you were concerned, according to what you were doing, you broke the article so that your government partner could vote against and where we asked you to split, so that we could vote in favour of provisions to which we were positive, such as the Single Student Number - we are positive - the possibility of transferring pupils who have excellent performance in fine arts in artistic events, the possibility of adjusting pupils to a different type of high school, you did not break them. So you deprive us of the right to vote on positive provisions. Because all these provisions which I told you we would vote on. We cannot vote on them, however, because there is also a provision in which you are predicting that as far as school excursions are concerned, it will be decided by you. You said to the committee, when we proposed that this should be the responsibility of the school units and that we should at last show confidence in teachers, that is, teachers, school managers, be responsible for the school units, that you do not agree with this position. You don't agree that school units decide. That is why you are leading us to vote against this article, which contains important elements. But you do not allow us to vote for it, because you put it all in an article. Ladies and gentlemen, the procedural issues prove the real intentions of the political leadership. Proceedings are also fundamental issues. We regret to note, Minister, that you do not want dialogue. The draft law, however, is not just a point of order, it is a matter of content as well. I now come to the contents. This is a piece of legislation which finds fragmentary arrangements, which demonstrates that the policy pursued in the field of education, as well as in the whole of government policy, is progressing without a plan, without a long-term aiming, without an impact study, without an impact study, without a conditionality and conditions of implementation, with carelessness and carelessness. It is a bill that could be termed ‘tricks and bricks and horns in vain’. It contains emblematic-type arrangements with a clear aim of satisfying micro-participatory needs, which we are very sorry to see reach the point in the photographic arrangements. We have regulations that are dispersed throughout the legislation, which are unfair to those regulations positively, such as the regulations on the State Certificate of Language, which we consider to be moving in a positive direction, as the introduction of the electronic way of examination will, on the one hand, make the systems for certification of language learning competitive and, on the other, facilitate the process in regions of the region. In the same positive direction, we believe that the arrangements for the relocation of the National Library of Greece to the new infrastructure of the Cultural Centre "Stavros Niarchos". We also consider that Article 9 and the grading recognition of the service of teachers and specialist educational and assistant staff, as well as Article 19 on the establishment of the academic scholar, despite the fact that, Minister, we are concerned with the fact that there is no funding provided and that the operation of this important institution is ultimately dependent on the existence of cash reserves of the institutions. As I said, however, in the bill, unfortunately, regulations are also included without an impact study, such as paragraph 4a of Article 20, which allows permanent teachers of primary and secondary education to be transferred to posts of Special Educational Personnel of the Universities and TEs. So there are two issues: first issue is the legalisation without an impact study. An impact study has not been prior to the other levels of education. What about the gaps that will be created by these teachers who will go to higher education? How will these gaps be covered? Second consequence: the unregulated legislature. In order to implement this arrangement, new positions should be set up, which we do not know how much they are or how much they cost, in line with what the General Accounting Office of the State tells us. The draft law also provides for arrangements to be introduced without prior investigation of needs, as referred to in Article 20(1), in which the possibility of transferring SNE staff to positions of Special Technical Personnel is granted. Minister, this will drastically reduce administrative staff at universities and will increase the already very great subsistence problem faced by regional institutions in particular. I have talked about arrangements without long-term targeting, about solving the problems within a holistic framework. A characteristic example is Article 11(1)(b), which demonstrates that the Ministry's leadership follows a leniency policy - let me say - instead of a policy of real care. Children with diagnosed learning difficulties are treated not with the aim of learning letters, developing appropriate methods and training teachers properly, but in order not to be troubled. Minister, we have so far been wondering why the establishment of the National Human Resources Education and Development Council, as provided for in Article 18 of this draft law. This is a new structure, a new advisory body for the Minister of Education, with acknowledgedly noble aims, but it raises questions about the PSUR to be abolished. You're saying the new instrument was set up because the NSA has remained inactive. Why has it remained, Minister, inactive for the last two years? Why is the Ministry, that is, the Government, not responding to calls for representation? You're saying the NSA was a multi-voltage shape. You consider that the independent voices of some forty-five members who, apart from the fewest four or five members, had nothing to do with the government, contrary to the new body of the twenty-five members of which almost ten are directly related to the Government. Of course, it seems that you do not have a burden on the discrimination that the ERC receives following evaluations into a European fora. What is, Minister, the real purpose behind the establishment of this new instrument? I also talked about emblematic-type arrangements reaching photographic imaging limits. Cradle, but not only is Article 20(2). What does this article say? It says that the members of the Special Technical Technical Staff of the IOIs, who have been specifically elected to the relevant IOIs in the year 2008 and for which the nomination act has specifically taken place in the year 2016, are therefore included in the special teaching staff category under conditions. Shall I say it again, Minister? EIF members, elected specifically in 2008 and whose appointment act is specifically in 2016, therefore members - in particular and exclusively for them - are given the opportunity to join the SSP category. It is in Article 8, which amends a law which you yourself voted on a few months ago. But also in Article 19, we have arrangements - listen, honourable Members - that were passed in August 2016 by SYRIZA, were abolished in October 2016 by SYRIZA and are now returning to SYRIZA! This is a slap in the legacy, fragmentation in the policy followed. On the basis of what institutional framework will universities' administrations operate when the laws change every quarter? But in research things are not better. Article 28 extends for the fourth time the deadline for drawing up the internal regulations and bodies of the research centres, which were six months from their entry into force. Paragraph 10 of the same article comes to confirm what we say. Three months ago, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you set up a new research and innovation institution, the so-called ELIDEK. We told you then that this new structure does not need to be established, given the existence of the General Secretariat for Research and Technology. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like your tolerance, Mr President. We told you these two structures would be overlapping. You refused. But today you come and legislate that this General Secretariat is responsible for organising the ELIDEK, for the functioning of the ELIKE, for monitoring and implementing its institutional framework and for any other relevant issue. In short, in just three months' time after an institution you so insisted on, you are actually going to abolish its autonomy and confirm our quarrel. However, there, where you have really overcome yourself in a sloppy way, where you have not sought nor the minimum conditions for implementing the arrangement are in the case of the new Article 32 on the management of the Phoebe Anogianakis collection. You have made laws, ladies and gentlemen of the government, without the hotelier or - in order to be clear - without taking into account the will of the owner and anticipating the transfer of ownership of this historical collection of popular musical instruments to the EKP, in breach of the will of the owner and therefore in breach of Article 109 of the Constitution, which explicitly prohibits the change in the contents of donation left for a public purpose. These are serious uncertainties, Minister. I shall close with Article 20(6), an article which reflects the Government's ideas and strengthens the modest effort. Appointment of tertiary education teachers on the basis of an application. Where else in the world is this happening? This regulation, ladies and gentlemen of the government, is an insult to the members of the educational staff of the TEI, who are scientists with increased academic qualifications, with doctoral dissertations, scientific publications, participation in research centres, and now you are able to become teachers of the institutions, many of whom do not have doctors, do not even have a postgraduate degree, do not have academic qualifications, become teachers. We believe that this is an important step backwards and I would ask the Minister, even at this late hour, to see her again. I'm hanging up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u113	But please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u114	Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law contains a number of provisions which almost all touch on the range of education, but unfortunately only on the skin. Most settings, which are in the wrong direction, disguise any arrangements with a positive figure. We are voting against this draft law in principle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u115	Members who have not been registered and want, for one or two more minutes, can do so. Then please close the electronic record system. I call on the special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Mr Antonio Gregos, to take his speech to Stepma and to say that I hope that Mrs. Konordos, the Minister of Culture, will come to explain to us by 8 o'clock why this museum will take it from where it is and take it to the EMCDDA. You have the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Mr President. I will begin with a more general comment, but it has an indirect bearing on the bill. First of all, Minister, I would like to say something very important: you should, in consultation with the Ministry responsible, arrange for the staff of the Centre for the Rehabilitation and Rehabilitation of Children with Disabilities at the Foundation of Agios Dimitrios Thessaloniki. I have tabled a relevant question and I and Mr Panagiotaros. A few years ago some lefters considered school aprons anachronistic. They don't seem to be troubled by the bourgeoisie or the handkerchiefs like something anachronistic. We want to denounce, as long as it has not been withdrawn, the tabling of the Halkidiki Government's amendment of the Halkidiki Act for the service of economic interests. Nor can I comment on the action of a candidate student who is going to take Greek citizenship at some point. I'm talking about the minor apparently young man who repeatedly attacked a police officer in the incidents that took place at the open illegal immigrants' center in the Greek. The particular minor was never arrested, although the video broadcast by the propaganda regiment clearly shows his face and his illegal act. And unfortunately, some of the brochures presented him as a victim. The minor perpetrator has not been arrested and give rise to a terrible impression about the manifestations of racist hatred of illegal immigrants and in that incident, as is the gesture of one of them to the police, the one with the cutting of the head. A question has been tabled by competitor Elias Cassidy on the subject. According to surveys in European countries, many minors have been arrested in different countries of Europe and already the first hits in the name of Islam have been recorded by minors. Let us recall once again that the so-called 'Islamist state' is training military juveniles from a very young age in order to have proper training in the use of weapons and explosives by 18 years. These children are very likely in the context of schooling to be next to our children. Whatever happens, responsibilities must be sought and charged to both the relevant ministers and those who have supported and supported such practices that undermine the security of our children and the integrity of our children. The plan for Islamization of the country, promoted by SYRIZA, New Democracy and PASOK, is under way and therefore the Greek people must show no tolerance to these party formations. Let us remind people with a weak memory that the New Democracy has passed the law on citizenship, as well as the anti-racist law, the law on the building of mosques and many other densely populated legislation. To say here that in England the name Muhammad is more common than George and in Europe the first children born in 2017 are foreign children. The Minister told the committee that the arrangements are intended to be established. But here there is a full dimension between the Ministers in the same Ministry. Acknowledgement exists only in the catastrophic results, and this has huge consequences for students, parents and teachers. It causes enormous stress, dysfunction and ultimately a climate of insecurity. I shall begin with the point concerning the introduction of a single student number. It is no coincidence that the elements of the students recorded in the existing form of the Ministry of Education under the name "myschool", because on many points the students' personal data are being affected, have already given rise to the strong reaction of the Personal Data Protection Authority, which calls on the Ministry of Education to comply with the following suggestions: First, keep in the database of the single information system the name ‘myschool’ only the personal data of students collected under legislative provisions from school units. Secondly, delete the additional personal data not provided for in a legislative provision and for which the need for respect for the purpose to be pursued and the corresponding fields in the database of the application of the Myschool system has not been established. Third, delete any data from the Myschool system concerning the student's individual health card and the corresponding fields of the database and application. Fourthly, a ceiling should be laid down for the maintenance of students' personal data in that information system. Fifth, apply the data security measures recorded. Sixthly, submit a detailed timetable for the implementation of these measures within two months of notification of the decision. Obviously we are voting against the relevant article, when we know firsthand what happens to e-mail, even with regard to ideologies. As you know, in the democratic Greece of 2017, dissidents are persecuted, imprisoned and targeted on the Internet. With regard to Chapter III, we are again amazed and reassured that the first paragraph of Law 3244/2004, namely the Code of Greek citizenship, is amended, and is defined by the Ministry as being no longer required to grant Greek citizenship to minors who have successfully attended nine classes of ICU and ICU, primary and secondary education, or six secondary classes, but their school was not Greek but foreign. Based on the Ministry of Education in order to overcome this person, it is necessary to equate to the needs of the regulation of the Code of Nationality the Greek schools with those following the current compulsory education and teaching programme. It is clear that this anti-constitutional draft law attempts to award Greek citizenship to every illegal immigrant student and not just to the student who will spend nine years in Greek school, which will alter the Greeks' national status, which connects us with the holo-linguistic, homologue, and especially the homogeneous one. That is why it finds us firmly opposing. With regard to Article 14, the issue of minority education, which arises from our country's obligations, in accordance with the Treaty of Lausanne, must be dealt with without forgetting that minority is religious and nothing else. Consequently, references to the Turkish language and teaching curriculum as a subject of study constitute an indirect recognition of neighbor's claims. The provision of Turkish instruction in minority schools is purely racist, where the corresponding provision of Greek education in Turkey is neither a concept nor a content. At the time when the Greek state ensures the professional security of minority teachers, the relatives in Turkey - those who are left - do not enjoy any of the privileges granted to them by the Treaty, which Turkey has effectively abolished unilaterally. Focusing on educational issues, it should be recalled that Turkey has banned the admission of clergymen to the federal schools and morning prayer since 1964. He forbidden the operation of three Greek high school children and the celebration of Christmas and Easter in the federal schools since 1964. He forbidden the nomination at the federal schools of Greek professors with Greek studies since 1965. He prohibited the circulation of a children’s magazine in schools, as well as the operation of the Prince’s Orphanage since 1964. It is even forbidden to import Greek newspapers. When Turkey has, since 1935, imposed the use of Turkish language only by the expatriates, it is rather funny to deal with how we will make sure in western Thrace that we have minority teachers paid by the Greek public who teach Turkish in Greek schools. Minority education should be addressed uniformly, based on the requirements of the Constitution, the interests of the nation and on the basis of reciprocity. Otherwise, it is unsubstantiated, disguised rajadism and it is dangerous for both Thrace and our country. We have studied all the statements sent to us by the institutions and we have taken serious account of their concerns, objections and remarks. I am talking about the National Confederacy of Disabled Persons, about Articles 1, 11, 13 and 18 and the Pan-Hellenic Confederation of Parents and Gardens of Children with Disabilities and Mathematical Difficulties also - I have noted here Articles 11, 12, 14, 15, 18. In particular, Article 11 shall have a unanimous rejection. The article regulates special treatment issues, which are both difficult and complex. Clearly, the higher number of four pupils with special learning difficulties per department is somewhat mitigating. However, a constant demand for primary education is the construction of departments for integration into all schools - kindergartens and primary schools - in order to cope successfully with the difficulties of pupils, but also not to suspend the overall level of the department. The draft law does not provide for such a regulation, nor does it make provision for such an intention. Such a decision is wrong, as it is not taken in the light of the educational interest of the student or of the department, but in the light of the sound savings of resources, once again treating education as the poor relative we are forced to tolerate. The hearing of bodies on public audits and transparency issues on language certificates, questions concerning the number of examiners and the examination procedure were heard. I would like here to know if the owners of private education agree with the inclusion of refugees in their schools and what parents think. Very important - and it will have to be solved immediately - is the question of the relocations of students from multitude and three-tier families, because each of their requests for this should be met accordingly. Article 18 provides for the establishment of a National Board of Education and Development of Human Resources, a new institution which replaces the National Education Council, which has very many members, complex and not effective, issues that have made it inactive. It must be determined whether the budget is being paid here and how much it will be paid for, because we have no proposals from the accounts. Let us say here that it mentions characteristics in this article on the National Education Council that it best implements the objectives of European education policy, as formulated by the relevant European Union institutions. As you know, the objectives of the European Union are in no way in line with the national objectives of our country at no level and, of course, not even in the field of education, which must be a nationalist and multicultural direction, as the relevant institutions of the European Union have seen. In Article 19, as is the case with many other articles in various parts of the bill, there are "photographic" provisions on the order of the known "municipalities". Another provision allows students of the HEIs to be examined in the courses of both six months of study, in the spring and winter, following a decision by the branch or school assembly. It is noted that this year only for the current period of examination - the winter six months of the academic year 2016-2017- the relevant measure. Here the government's undergoing pursuit is apparent to help the 'eternal students'. For Articles 26 and 27, we have the following. In Chios they must first face the daily invasion by illegal immigrants and then dream about the island's tourist progress, the expansion of the cruise and the improvements of existing structures and much more. Finally, there can be no university in every city with all the schools of all sciences. Architecture schools have in Thessaloniki, Athens, Chania, Patras, Volos. And finally - to say something very important here - we must also end with this famous university asylum, which serves terrorists and all sorts of criminals. The infamous, resistant article 29 is the vehicle with which the invasion of foreigners will be further consolidated in Greek schools, with an obvious aim not to assimilate - never assimilate - but to completely alter another sensitive part of Greek society. The vote will take place on the position of the parties on the anti-national arch. I would like to denounce the urgency procedure once again and emphasise what I have said to the committee, that on such sensitive issues as the issues relating to the Ministry of Education, no bills can come with such a procedure, urgent or urgent. It is a direct and urgent need to withdraw the disgraceful theme about the racial identities, which causes the wrath of every healthy thinking citizen in this country. Also, the bill, as I said before, has not been costed. It's common practice and yours. The Ministry's tactics with barrages of changes that are being voted on and voted out and which are not going to be implemented because the collapse of the government is before the gates, causes, as we have said, a disturbance and stress to parents and children, unfortunately even to their health. As parents, above all, as members of the associations of parents and guardians and as representatives of the Greek people, we must monitor the teaching material and work of teachers every day when it escapes its limits, because the risk of the spread of Marxist, international and anti-Greek poison is at stake in vulnerable ages. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] The Golden Dawn and the Nationalist Front of Education have drawn up a fully implementable program on the issues of education, a truly national education, the one that Greek students deserve.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u117	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, forty-three students and students and two teachers attending from the 1st Petropolis High School (second section). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We need to inform students and students that they are following the discussion of a draft law by the Ministry of Education. We are at that point where the parties' representatives are posted, later by the MPs, and the Minister will take the floor. Then we'll vote so that the bill becomes the law of the state. We continue with the special speaker of the Democratic Association Mr Dimitrios Konstantopoulos. Here, Mr Constantopoulos, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u118	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in a climate that brings us all the nightmare scenarios in the spring of 2015, our country is going without a compass on the deadlock created by the government. Gentlemen of the Government, you have no right to enclose the country in a new agreement, in a creepy logic "Who lives, who dies until 2019". This was, of course, said by a member of your government. We are talking about an evaluation that should have ended since February 2016. We arrived in February 2017 and nothing has happened yet. Gentlemen of the government, you have no right to drive the country to Grexit or to a lasting austerity. We must avoid a new national disaster by promoting the interests of the country and not populism and statism. It is time for another policy, a policy of national understanding, with a national line of exit from the crisis and the memoranda. The Democratic Reconciliation, with positions and suggestions, gives its battle. As soon as yesterday, I would say, Mrs Christophilopoulou's proposal was accepted to set up a working group to give a solution to the alalum that has created the issue with the blocks. Yesterday, the seasonal firefighters were on the road. So renew the seasonal fire extinguishers contract and find the possibility of being permanent. Minister, you described this draft law as an urgent matter and asked us to vote through an express procedure, having only put two articles in the consultation. With the regulation on libraries, we could go to a wider consensus. We have reached a number of six articles at thirty-five, including a series of regulations - unconnected, I would say, among them - for all levels of education. You have created a multi-brand plan out of nowhere, you have brought it and you want to vote on it. I would say that we would have no objection to the issue of the process of transferring teachers and examinations by the urgency procedure. You could well put it into an amendment to the existing bills to be voted on in the House. You didn't. We participated in the committee in trying to help clarify and improve the arrangements for this puzzle, which, as we have heard from the bodies, who, without exception, have deplored the urgency process, will put a test on students, teachers and parents. Four days now we are experiencing the repetition of a surprise. We politically understand the critical issues under way and the need to settle commitments relating to the third memorandum, such as, of course, Article 12 for apprenticeship. But you cannot, Mr President-in-Office, ask for a consensus on such a procedure. We cannot keep mentioning the importance of consultation and dialogue and, in practice, you yourself cancel it. Minister, the need to strengthen public free education is essential as ever, as we have experienced the hardest economic crisis in recent years. I would say here that we are not just experiencing an austerity, we are experiencing a catastrophic austerity that has caused terrible suffering to each family. The amounts allocated to qualifying for admission to universities are unreasonable. Any regulation that reduces these costs is therefore acceptable. After all, such issues have been raised by our governments over the years, as we have said in the past, on many issues even with a delay. You're late coming to our seats. We have shown with our attitude our desire to contribute to a credible and fruitful dialogue, to a dialogue organized with respect even to diversity. Why? Because this will lead to better conclusions and better results, with the aim of improving our educational system at all levels. However, this multi-advertised communication dialogue with parallel functions of Mr Liakou's Committee of Wise Men, Mr Theotokas, Mr Kouzeli's IPP failed, I would say, with many praises. Of course, you too have seen your contradictory conclusions. Retirements with implied. Even the former Secretary General of the Ministry criticized you. All this has led, I would say, to discredit this process and has turned it into a theater of irrationality. Just a few days ago, we saw a bourgeois de brought between Mr Liakos and Mr Kuzeli on matters relating to high school and access to universities. I'd say a déjà vu! You opened schools with a reduction in teaching hours, with a reduction in their full-day function, with a deterioration of quality. You're going to make appointments, but you've even reduced the subservient recruitment. You moved hundreds of teachers and led the kindergarten business hostage. Same sloppy, Minister, and special lawsuits. For us, for the Democratic Alliance, special education is a chapter, it is a priority, it is, I would say, indeed a separate chapter on education. Hundreds of children have left without parallel support. Special schools have remained unqualified and CEDs have no staff. Even the institution of the hereditary of special lawsuits degraded him by regulation in the bill, which obliges him to be seconded to the headquarters of the services councils, otherwise he will pay the travels himself from his pocket. Of course, I think you'll withdraw it. As in Article 19, in which you made the self-evident separation. Ladies and gentlemen, in these days we have been the recipients of the agony of thousands of students who, if they become ill or for reasons of force majeure, are excluded from the pan-Hellenic exams. Until last year, of course, they were able to participate in the repeat exams. But this year, no. There is no care for these children who will not take part in the examinations, for reasons they cannot, of course, check. For the sake of equal treatment of pupils and equal opportunities, there should be provision for this. That is why, Mr Ministers, we have tabled an amendment and we invite you to accept it. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very afraid that the regulations of the bill will be confusing throughout the educational community. I come over the articles and will mention the following: Articles 1 to 6 concern the State Certificate of Language and the regulation of the National Library. We believe it is in the right direction and, of course, we will vote on it anyway, because your view is identical to ours. But I ask: is it possible to speak of a State Certificate of Language, when English teaching is reduced by one hour per class in elementary school? Is it possible, Minister, to speak of availableness when gymnastics is reduced by one hour? Article 8 ‘Study of school activities’. I have a question, Minister. Why don't you apply Law 221/90? Only then will transparency be ensured, gentlemen, in the procedures. Article 9 ‘Recognition of pre-instrumental service’. It's in the right direction. I would remind you here that we have tabled an amendment on wage recognition which you did not accept. Article 11 ‘Special education and training issues’. You continue to degrade the specific treatment with fragmentary arrangements. Article 14 'Minority schools'. We propose, Minister, and we would like you to take this seriously, to take account of the simulation of PSC graduates and the continuing training of teachers on minority education issues. This training must, of course, be undertaken by the Pedagogical Department of the Democritus University of Thrace, based in Alexandroupolis. We have tabled an amendment to this effect and we invite you to accept it. Only then will the references in the explanatory memorandum to the draft law have a real dimension and legislative dimension. As for setting up the IP 73, we call on you, Minister, to clarify the professional guarantee for minority education and the IP 70 sector. Article 15. It is planned to set up an autonomous Directorate of Private Education at the Ministry of Education. And here I ask this: should this address not be subject to a general address and with a view to the overall design of the Ministry's establishment plan, which, of course, calls for a recent document by the association of officials? Article 16. You reduce the funding of the Foundation for Medical Research of the Academy of Athens. We believe that such actions cannot be implemented without prior evaluation of the institution. So you're the ones before you assess the institution, you're actually applying reductions. Article 18. Minister, it's a wonder how you dismantle the SPS. In fact, abolish the ESS, after you have deceived it and led to the resignation of scientific prestiges that you yourself have proposed. And you recommend the ECHR, so that you can ultimately rule out what seems to be social institutions and parties. I note that it is necessary for the single body to also participate in a representative of OLAF, which you are of course forgetting. Article 20. Detectivity and full confusion. Our permanent position is to strengthen and not deforestation of primary and secondary education with teachers who naturally have increased qualifications. Article 23 ‘Greek Open University’. You bring in a regulation providing for the establishment of a private publishing house within the university. When? In the time of technology! So here you could follow the practice of the National Documentation Center for the e-book. Thus, the students would not bear any extra cost, extra financial burden. Articles 26 and 27. The redesign of the country's geographical map of the operation of the EITs and TEIs requires, ladies Ministers, dialogue, consultation, consensus and evaluation. It needs to be evaluated in the new data and market data and a new development model, because what the country needs is development. So let me remind you here that at the initiative of the Minister of Education at the time, Mr Loverdos, studies in our country's heavy industry, which is tourism, was a priority. And this was done with the establishment of a relevant section and the provision of corresponding sections decentralised in the North Aegean, Crete, where there is even a decision of the Senate. I would remind you that I have repeatedly raised the issue of the University Departments of Agrinio and I have proposed to you that a School should be set up in Agrinio, where the existing departments will be subject. At the same time, Minister, a topical question was asked by Mr Bored, but also by me - it is a constant request from the students, the institutions of Atolokarnania, the rename of the Department of Environment and Natural Resources in a Department of Environmental Engineering. Minister, I'm still waiting for your answer. This rename is in line with the department's curriculum of study and confers physical professional rights on graduates. Article 28. You are asking us to vote and vote for the provisions of 2016. Here is proof of the clandestineness with which you bring either amendments or articles many times. I mean, we vote and we vote. Article 30. We have pointed out that the regulation opens Halos' bottles to extend the retirement thresholds, as Mr Cremastino has been in detail in the committee. Ladies and gentlemen, the area of education is not offered for either big words or surprises. He needs a consensus. So there is no need for photographic regulations and interventions without broader planning, dialogue and composition. That's the point. That is what our education needs today. We hope, Minister, that this will be the last time you are confronting us with such a process. Let the dialogue evolve. Do not condemn him as a dialogue, which is pretext and ineffective. We believe in dialogue, which is why we are in dialogue and in consultation with it with proposals and views that really concern many. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u119	Thank you Mr Dimitrios Konstantopoulos, special speaker of the PASOK-DIMAR Democratic Association. Mr.Ioannis Delis, special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not intend to stand up to the discussions and vote on the bill, procedures which the government has chosen, as is customary, to be urgent again, nor to secondary or individual aspects of the bill, as the other parties in opposition are, unfortunately, in the lamentable position of mobilising various tricks or lifting them up on the important issues, in order to oppose a government with which they are strategically consistent. We want to talk about the substance of the bill, about what it seeks, about where it goes, about its direction. And from this point of view, let us say that the conclusion reached on today's bill is that it is another link in the long chain of anti-educational restructurings that have, of course, begun by the previous governments, accelerated with the memoranda and, of course, it has been fine with the budget cuts and cuts, always in the context of the European Union's educational strategy and the OECD guidelines. That conclusion, you know, is not just us. His strategic direction declaring the bill itself in his explanatory statement on page 22 on the occasion of the establishment of a special body of opinion to the Ministry of Education, the National Council for Education and Development of Human Resources, which has been replacing it up to now by the National Education Council, the ESS. In this explanatory statement, therefore, the explanatory statement states that it best implements the objectives of European educational policy, as formulated by the relevant institutions of the European Union in legally binding texts, declarations and operational programmes to link education to the labour market and employment - not 'work', but 'employment' - and the development of the country. So this draft law, despite its seemingly individual and heterogeneous arrangements, despite the obvious fragmentation of the provisions it introduces, is governed by the same internal logic. And it cannot hide that it is moving in the same direction as the restructuring of the former PASOK and New Democracy governments, whose work, of course, is continuing and enriching and which, from the point of view of the people's interests, have an anti-linguistic, anti-educational content. The aim of all these restructurings in education, which are naturally implemented under the supervision of the European Union and the guidance of the OECD, and which have begun to remind us a long time before the memorials, is the even tighter and effective binding of education and all its functions, ideological and cultural, to the chariot of the needs of capital. And that's exactly what you mean when you talk about education as a factor in growth, capitalist development, that is. At the same time, and much more now within the capitalist economic crisis, you are turning education to the maximum extent of budgetary discipline and bloody surpluses, leading it to economic suffocation, in order to save "hot" money for lenders and business groups. It is no accident at all that in the third memorandum, which you have implemented and which, of course, all of you have voted here, for the first time, there are explicit provisions on education, the well-known cuts and educational cuts. What does all this work? Our people are experiencing them. On the one hand, the expensive educational poverty of the children of the people's family, since the content of education is constantly declining to the level of a mere training, and on the other hand, the decline in the working rights of teachers who are mobilized in the most unfavourable conditions created by your policy. It is constantly confirmed in practice and in life that the policy that breaks popular rights for capital gains is served by all managers of capitalist barbarism and does not know exceptions. It goes without saying, throughout the line of social needs, it widens the class inequalities and sows poverty no matter how much crumbs it flies to the people. A number of articles in this draft law are sufficient to confirm the above conclusions. Conclusions that as long as time passes - you know - they suppress people's consciences too. Let us see, for example, Articles 7 to 18 with arrangements for primary and secondary education. Although there are some scorpically positive provisions for cleaners and school cleaners by contract, which, however, remain hostage, on your own responsibility, or for minority education, the tone in this chapter is given to it by Articles 10, 11 and 18, which substantiate the overall negative direction of the bill. Article 11, which you must withdraw, Mr Minister, is another blow, one of the many things that you have unleashed for special education, and it is no coincidence that it has met the unanimous condemnation of the relevant bodies in the Committee on Culture. Not only do you keep the provision from "Giannakou Law" which provides for private parallel support to the general school, but also extend it to special schools, enabling parents themselves to hire and pay, of course, from their pockets, the special assistant staff or the school nurse needed for their children. In fact, you also oblige them to undertake the investigation of the penal record of those who are recruited, that is to say, to make them a detective. Furthermore, in the same article you are even more strict in terms of terms and conditions to break a school section in which students with disabilities and special educational needs are studying. Until now, there was only one child to break a department. Now, with what you're entering, it's not enough. It should be more, and even if there are four children with dyslexia in the same section, the department does not break if there is a section of integration. Let us remember here that the accession departments, as they operate, in the way you have forced them to operate, certainly do not offer them. Their role and educational impact have been degraded in these children. The minimum number now of students, four for primary school, five for secondary school establishments, leads, Minister, directly to the closure of special education departments, as in many cases - and you know very well - there are several such departments throughout the country with fewer than these numbers. You know, because you like or like a lot of people in here talking with numbers, the school departments are not just students' numbers, they're much more than that. And that is even more true for children with disabilities and special educational needs, and you are, of course, dealing with them as simple numbers by setting these limits. We ask, what will these children's families do on an island or in a remote area? Where are the kids taking them? It is characteristic that even now you are continuing to provoke and triumph for your alleged achievements in special treatment, highlighting the extra recruitment of substitutes from the NRP or the establishment of new departments. But tell us here today how many children of about two thousand who need special treatment do not have access to public structures. Tell us why they spend months running special schools with their necessary scientific and auxiliary staff and in inappropriate areas. Tell us why there should be teachers who have been working for up to 15 years as substitutes and in an area where the stable educational environment is the most crucial condition. In Article 10 now, which is, we would say, the article on mobility in education, says that surplus trainers - according to the Ministry, of course, overlap with its own criteria - have, of course, been merged and closed by departments and schools, will be able to be sent to the national and municipal swimming pools, overlapping nurses at the children's stations, overlapping teachers at public IEKs and second-way schools, while teachers in the common skills of primary and secondary schools will also be moved throughout the year by school, to an unlimited number of six, seven, eight, ten schools, to meet the needs of your own policy. Look, Minister, today, when we speak, mass permanent appointments are needed. But you, we'll tell you again, you play, like the previous ministers, with the pain of thousands of vague teachers, when you promise them appointments and mock them, telling them that we need to find the right system first not to make many objections, as is the issue of technical and not the issue that arises from the essence of your economic policy that does not give money for these needs and has led thousands of teachers to undisturbedness and labour wandering. In Article 12 of the same bill, the process is accelerated to promote the so-called apprenticeship, one of the most characteristic examples of school connections to the labour market demanded by the big businessmen and satisfying your government, turning schools into employment offices and entrepreneurs rubbing their hands for the fresh and obedient - what a passionate, almost free workforce they will get into their work, since even these crumbs that will be taken by apprentices will give the state. With regard to the provisions on GIs, all they do is manage the misery of the deficiencies, after recycle the existing few staff, maintaining the shameful working relationships in the various research programmes with works contracts and blocks. And here, of course, the need is unirreversible. Recruitment of permanent staff is today the need, not the stirring-up of staff. You transfer to the institutions the poor housing allowance of students that receives only a very small percentage and given the financial suffocation of the institutions, it is certain that this will be even more engraved, while compared to the already privatised in many PPC, the Greek Open University, proceed, deepen its service, allowing it to establish a publishing house, obviously to sell the corresponding writings in its curriculum. Of course, teachers' industrial relations are being dismantled at the same time. What we have to say is that, apparently, the Greek Open University is probably the pilot of government policy to implement these regulations and to the rest of higher education. The State Certificate of Language Learning, of course, introduces digital technology into electronic exams. No one can object to that. Alas! But that is not the point. I wish that was it. The point is that your government, which so many crocodile tears as it turns out, has been shed for public free education, retains the exams that have been introduced for this State Certificate of Linguistics by previous governments. In other words, he's been examsing them and the state is responsible for them. The state itself, i.e. becoming a trader in foreign languages, claims a share of the not-so-meaning pie of the extremists. The turnover of these tests alone reaches EUR 15 million and, in fact, the government's explanatory statement makes it clear. For the first time, it says that "the phenomenon of the self-financing of a system of examinations conducted by a public body arises". Do you intend to extend this to the pan-Hellenic examinations? It's all to be expected. Otherwise, for this landscape, the landscape of foreign languages remains the same, about 700 million euros is the total family expenditure. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm going to need some tolerance, Mr. President. Thank you. Of course, if the Ministry would like to - because many times it has the words fat - to upgrade foreign languages in schools, some steps would only be to increase school hours, to change the books, to give them free of charge to all grades, to all students, to reduce students by department, to organise school exams, to hire permanent foreign language teachers. You don't do none of this. Not only are you doing nothing of this, but you're doing exactly the opposite. Let us stand a little on the issue of the National Library of Greece, for which there is a silence from the other parties. Understood. The history of the National Library of Greece is known. On how it gradually slashed from a public service to a business unit, starting in 2003 from PASOK and converting it to a legal person governed by public law, with the corresponding physical abandonment and depreciation. It was continued by the New Democracy, to bring SYRIZA to the center of Culture of Stavros Niarchos Foundation in order to make use of it. The question is: 'What is the fox going for in the bazaar?' It is no coincidence that no other party is talking about this and that those who are whispering something have only good words to say about this provision. It is true that this provision implements the colonial contract, signed in 2009 with the Minister of Culture, Mr Samaras, the contract of Stavros Niarchos Foundation with the Greek state. And, of course, who dictated the terms of this convention, better not say it because we easily understand it. Let us say, here of course, that capitalists never invest their money just for economic gains. They expect and ideologically. And they expect these and will have them, since this Cultural Centre of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation will have a decisive role in the content and direction of the activities of the National Library of Greece, which is relocated, is hosted in the well-known location of the Cultural Centre in Faliro, which was given for a hundred years by the Greek State at Stavros Niarchos Foundation. What kind of hospitality is this since the National Library as well as the National Lyceum will pay rent? You don't host a guy with a rent, I think. Also, a large part of the materials of the National Library, such as newspapers, for example, will simply not fit in this particular centre of culture. These are the questions that need to be answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u121	Complete your thoughts, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u122	I'm closing, Mr. President. I hope that the amendments will allow us to say a few words. We close the issue of the collection of Phoebe Anogiannakis. It is distracted by the provision, which came as it was, Minister. The collection of Phoebe Anogiannakis is automatically and fully owned in the EKT by the Museum of Greek Folk Art in which it existed. What we have to say is that this action, this provision, is unexplained, is unjustified and serves obvious purposes. We're waiting to hear. There are already strong reactions from the workers in this museum, a museum of great importance for the Greek people's culture by scientific, cultural bodies such as archaeologists, such as the Chamber of Art, such as the musicians who demand, claim the withdrawal of this provision. We'll only tell you. This provision openly violates the terms of the Phoebe Anogiannakis covenant. Because Fivos Anogiannakis gave his collection to the Ministry of Culture. She didn't give her to the N.R.D. to do it, we don't know what. And the Ministry of Culture must have sole responsibility for its operation. Not only for this museum, but also for all the museums in the country. We'll be placed. We are, of course, voting against the bill at first and I hope that we can say a few words about the amendments tabled by the JRC. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, too, the special speaker of the JRC.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u124	Mr President, I should like to make a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u125	The Minister wants to make a small intervention. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u126	I'm going to make an intervention for the article on the Museum of Popular Institutions Phoevos Anogiannakis. I will not respond to the dramatics and many not precise terms on which Mr Delis spoke. We, in listening to various difficulties, which exist in understanding this correct transfer, withdraw this article and table it with the new bill on copyright coming from the Ministry of Culture. What I want to say, because various colleagues call it and are exposed, is that the collection of Phoebe Anogiannakis and his will leave these instruments in the museum. The museum owns the property. The museum is part of the Ministry of Culture with this relatively recent provision of 2014, but the reason for this provision is that half the museum's events and activities were cancelled due to a suffocating framework of various issues. The Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Education agree that for the best functioning of the museum - I say again, too many of its activities have been cancelled - we can bring it back again, by consulting all of us. But let us not raise things, especially with dramatic tones that it is unconstitutional and one another. These instruments of excellent originality and value belong to the museum. In any case, we will see how we manage the problem, obviously not the property, because it is ministries, it is the public. I'm talking about knowing what this is about. But to ensure the best possible operation. I say this so that colleagues will not waste their time discussing this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u127	We thank the Minister for his intervention. I welcome the spirit, as there is a substantial dialogue and a few or many observations or proposals from the opposition are accepted and incorporated into the legislative work. To proceed with the special speaker of the Independent Greeks, Mr Konstantinos Katsikis. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, this draft law, following the legislative improvements made during its debate in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, now consists of thirty-six articles. In particular, the first chapter includes Articles 1-3 and refers to the State certificate of language. The examination system for the State certificate of Languages was established in 1999 and for the first time an examination was carried out in 2003 in the English, German, French and Italian languages. Adaptive electronic language examination is a tool which, by applying the appropriate rules and procedures, supports the assignment of tests of an appropriate level of difficulty to the competences of the person concerned in the examination process. With the changes proposed, it is expected to improve the operating conditions of the tests carried out so far with low test forms for the candidates. The establishment of electronic examinations will also help the National Language Certification System compete with the respective foreign systems that have already begun and go through the electronic format. The profits of the citizens from participating in the electronic examinations are multiple, since the preparation of pupils and students, for which the average Greek family spends about 700 million euros a year, has already been planned within the school. Chapter II, which consists of Articles 4-6, deals with matters relating to the National Library and other public libraries. With the proposed provisions, the National Library will be transferred to the new infrastructure of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation. Article 4 regulates the issues of the proper functioning of the National Library due to its relocation to the new infrastructures. In detail, its legal form is defined as a legal person governed by public law and its name provides for the seat of the National Library as well as of all its services. Two levels of administration are also provided for. A collective body, the Supervisory Board and a single body, the Director-General. A strategic and operational plan shall be established. It also updates and extends the purpose of the National Library to incorporate new trends and new technologies applied to other corresponding libraries internationally. Article 5 regulates issues of other public libraries. Provision is made for the possibility of donation as well as the procedure for donating non-specific libraries and the documents of sacred metropolitan and monasteries, municipalities, communities or other legal persons of public or private law or private individuals in a public library. Under the provisions of Chapter C, which consists of Articles 7 to 18, urgent primary and secondary education issues relating to pupils, students and the proper functioning of school units are dealt with. Article 7 establishes, on a recommendation from the Ministry of Education's competent department, a'single number of pupils' in primary and secondary public and private education. This is particularly important because this allows each student to be identified and to follow his course in school years, regardless of the areas he has studied, with respect always on personal data. In addition, this arrangement will allow foreign students to be identified when they request a change of information. Article 9 regulates issues relating to all primary and secondary education education, such as the recognition of a pre-service after the appointment of a freelance or dependent job and general matters of their service. Regulations concerning special education shall be introduced under Article 11. An existing legislative gap is cured and the minimum and maximum number of pupils per department is clearly defined at all levels of special schools' education. Article 13 deals with questions of introduction to higher education. This article refers to special categories of pupils suffering from incurable diseases, pupils in the summer high school. The right to claim a new import position is also permanently regulated at 10%. This regulation will no longer require the amendment of the rules every year. In particular, on the basis of the provisions of the bill, the right to import with 10% is finally introduced, the candidates will have up to two years after the year they gave them full-fledged. Article 17 sets out arrangements for issues of the General Secretariat for Lifelong Learning and New Generation and defines the establishment of the Recognition Council of Professional Qualifications, for the sake of abbreviation hereafter referred to as the GSP. On the recommendation of this Council, Mr Minister, during the debate on this draft law and on the committee, we objected to the exclusion of representatives on a case-by-case basis or of related professional organisations in order to participate in cases where recognitions of equivalent professional qualifications are being discussed. You have accepted the objections and thank you. We believe that their participation is necessary because it provides guarantees of expertise to ensure the proper judgement of the Council. Article 18 recommends the National Board of Education and Development of Human Resources, which is a special consultative body to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs. The fourth and final chapter of this draft law consists of Articles 19 to 35. This regulates issues relating to higher education and research. At the same time, new regulations such as these have emerged during the discussion of this draft law in the committee responsible. Article 19 resolves issues and removes interpretative problems which have arisen in the implementation of provisions concerning higher education institutions. The three-year term of the assistant teachers of the higher education establishments and the ceiling for each school to be included in the part-time school scheme shall be restored. Article 21 extends the scope of the cases of a Ministerial Act to the self-financed or financed programmes of own resources. This arrangement allows centralised bodies to sign directly and without time-consuming approval procedures. Article 23 regulates issues relating to the development and proper functioning of the Greek Open University. Articles 26 and 27 provide for the establishment of a Department of Tourism Studies at the University of Piraeus, Department of Economics and Management at the University of the Aegean, as well as the establishment of a Polytechnic School at the University of Ioannina. Article 29 amends Article 1b of the Code of Nationality of L.4332/2015. This article concerns the acquisition of Greek nationality by foreign students in Greek schools. As in the summer of 2015, ladies and gentlemen, as we had disagreed with this bill, we are now voting against this article. Article 31, where provisions are introduced for student care, allows undergraduate, postgraduate students and candidate doctors, who have no other medical and hospital care, to be entitled to full medical and hospital treatment in the National Health Service with a coverage of the relevant costs by the National Health Services Agency. Before closing, Minister, I also referred to the article that you withdrew. Therefore, my reference was as to whether this article remained. I would point out that it is not considered that I did not consider it to be in my mind, although I did not, by mistake, recall to withdraw it from my word. Finally, the Independent Greeks are positive on the whole bill, with the exception of Article 29, which we are voting against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u129	Thank you to the Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, Mr Konstantinos Katsikis. Mr Ioannis Saridis has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u130	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now witnessing - once again - the results of the government's conscious choice not to respect its parliamentary procedures and practices properly legislate. More specifically, on the pretext of how the days are approaching for the planned transfer of the National Library to the new facilities of the Niarchos Foundation and on the justification for the need for a timely finalisation of the dates of the Pan-Hellenic Examinations, you proceeded with the designation of this draft as an "urgent". These two points call for, as well as for the need to complete the transfer of primary and secondary education in the second fortnight of this month, February, to describe as "urgent" this bill, this sum, in essence, of thirty articles and of more than one multiplier articles and thus reduce the possibilities for improving initiatives and interventions by the MPs of anti-population. Every time you legislate in this process, you are essentially confirming your central political decision to legislate on your own. Whenever you talk about consultation and consensus now, you must know that you are in danger of being unreliable, as people see that on the one hand you have no hesitation to describe thirty articles as urgent - and, on the other hand, you admit that only two, three of them fulfil the conditions of the budget - and on the other, he hears you move on to supposedly well-meaning reminders, that you have made us and, thanks for allowing the thirty bodies that we have called for to speak, as Rule 38(5) of the Rules of Procedure, as you said, states that the invited bodies cannot exceed six. There is an open debate on changes in Parliament's Rules of Procedure. I propose that, on this basis, we consider Rule 38(5) precisely so that the committees of Parliament can also call on those who consider themselves to be heard, without breaking any Rules of Procedure and without you or any other government saying that they are doing so. Ladies and gentlemen, I am replacing my dear colleague, Mr Theodora Megalos. in which I wish rapid recovery and a quick return to its useful work. MEP Megalo-Economics during the discussions of the Committee on Educational Affairs had clearly argued that the legislative proposals of the Ministry contained in the first and second chapters of the draft law in question concerning the State Certificate of Languages - Articles 1 to 3 - and the National Library - Articles 4 to 6 - are indeed both necessary and correct. I regret, however, that you may force us to vote against - if we vote against, this will also be seen by the Minister - by this bill. And this decision is made by you yourself. I did not see you going to pay any attention today to what was pointed out to you by the RESEMA and also by my colleague, Mrs Megan-Chairman. Minister, no matter how well these six articles constitute the first two chapters, and no matter how much we feel about us sitting here explaining why the other twenty-four articles should be withdrawn, I cannot go ahead without saying that if you do not give us an answer, why you do not now legislate on the necessary provisions so that small and medium-sized enterprises will also have access to it and that they will also be able to obtain the certificate of language, you are bringing us into an extremely difficult position. In view of the fact that this issue will be resolved - soon I hope - I will make a few brief comments on what you are proposing for all levels of education in the third and fourth chapters, whose curiosity is indicative and characteristic of the poor quality of the government's legislation. In Article 8 of the third chapter, you propose to extend by one year what is already the case with regard to the cleaning requirements of the school units. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you must finally understand that you no longer have that excuse. You're not new anymore. Two years you've been in this government. Two years you've been in these positions. It does not matter what the ministers have changed. The government must have a follow-up. This state must have a continuity at some point. How can you be forced to legislate on an extension behind the other after two years? Any extension you bring us and ask for our vote can be seen as proof of either your inability to solve various problems or the lack of political will of the government to deal with them as a result of a central, conscious political decision. The issues regarding public cleanliness, due to the way SYRIZA managed them, find the way to infiltrate in the form of prolongations in almost all the bills you bring into this Chamber. In each bill there is also an extension for people of cleanliness. It turns out in this way that you don't want to solve the problem, but hide it under the carpet. What you achieve with repetitive extensions is to keep workers hostage. Nothing else! In Article 11 of Chapter C, you should take into account the concerns about the combination of counter-population and operators very seriously. You do not explain to us anywhere where you have reached the numbers and time limits described in Article 11. You have not succeeded - above all because you did not even pursue it - to explain to us how you have come to what you are saying in Article 11 on the issues of special education and training. There are uncertainties in practical issues and failures that will lead to the creation of unacceptable situations where children and parents will become a ball in the inhumane games of bureaucracy and state analgesia. Article 11 proves you are legislating for citizens without citizens. I am sorry, but the future is predictable for all the families who hoped you would solve problems, and today you are surprised, overthrowing family planning and creating new problems for them. In Article 12, which deals with the issues of ESDP students, you are trying to regulate a situation which, however, requires solutions instead of flagship arrangements. The future will show if your setting is enough. With regard to Article 13, where you refer to students with incurable illnesses, and Article 14, where you allegedly regulate minority education, we can only say that you are preventing us from supporting any attempt to improve when this is done without the extremely necessary public consultation, and when at the same time and deliberately you choose to get things involved with wrong things and to blackmail us, in fact, that if we do not vote on the whole of your legislation, we will appear to be indifferent and indifferent. It's not right what you do and you know it. In Article 15, you go ahead with the establishment of another structure, the Department of Private Education. Judging by the way you face private initiative in the provision of education to date, we know what we have to wait for. You will be extracted there as many as you choose to enhance bureaucracy, making it increasingly difficult to operate a private school. Private schools are persecuted on your government. Put one in the way after another. Instead of putting obstacles to the infringing effects of a small minority private educational institutions, you choose to torture all private schools by charging their operating costs and overthrowing their programming every three minutes. In any case, you strengthen the argument of those who claim that the reason you do this is to hide the misfortune of public education. In Article 18, you create another body. Of course, you're abolishing another. We find it more and more frequently in your legislative initiatives In Article 19 of Chapter IV and in particular in paragraph 1, you are essentially reintroducing provisions that you had initially introduced and voted for in August 2016, but then, in October 2016, you abolished them to relegate them today. What else can anyone do? What else can anyone say? You're doing the same thing with the investigation. We are sitting here talking about space service at the same time as the research into Article 28(10), you are being misunderstood. Three months after the establishment of the ELIDEC, you define the DGT, the Secretariat-General for Research and Technology, as responsible for the operation and supervision of the ELIDEC. So you come and dismantle its autonomy, admitting that the way you have done it results in problems of overlapping of responsibilities. You're listening to our comments after all. It was about three months late. How many were you warned of what you are now forced to do? How many were there who told you in this Chamber? In Article 20 of the last chapter, in paragraph (b), where you refer to qualifications, you require only international publications at international conferences. What logic forced you to remove two words, "and Greek"? Why would they only count foreign publications? Is this another attempt of you to deal with Brain Drain? Only those who have publications abroad can claim a place in Greek universities? Along with the abolition of "Antigone" and "Thucydides" repeat the message, "Get up and go".
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u131	Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u132	Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u133	What dismantling?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u134	Greece has no room for Greeks. That's what you do at every opportunity. That's what you do with all the issues. You're firing out the Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u135	No lies! There are answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u136	That's what you're doing. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is unrelenting. The Accounting Office of the State informs us that it is unable to calculate the costs of the law-makers. In a period of economic crisis, what reasonable person can accept undistortedly or consider your practice to legislate unconsciously? Who Greek has today made any decision within his home without costing it? Nobody! How, then, can the House legislate unconsciously without impact studies? The single number of students is being introduced and you tell us that this will be done with respect for his personal data, when in the last few days we have learned that to get a ticket on the subway, someone should know where you live, what your phone is and what you bought from the supermarket the other day. So I wonder what confidence we can show. This practice to favour enclosures does not suit left-wing governments. Your credibility has not been brought to bear such blows from your failures, which we cannot rely on. All these so-called innovations, all that will supposedly lead us to the wonderful future of technological developments in Greece, are just obstacles to the daily lives of citizens. You are bringing us a bill with predictions of electronic remote voting, with provisions for electronic examinations, and you are telling us how easy the platform of myschool will make our lives. But, just yesterday, I was just reading the atrocious comments of all those who were confronted with the ADP platform in their attempt to claim their future, but also those who have to determine how long they are left to live in order to take their medications as well as those who, in order to certify that they are sick, are in danger of dying on the streets. This is the implementation of technological innovations in the everyday life of our fellow citizens. So, in paraphrasing Arkas, I would say that you are coming here to solve problems that would not exist if you and your government did not exist. You do not have the ability to apply the good things that result from the evolution of new technologies correctly. And it'll soon look like this. Yesterday I launched a major research into the festival that has been set up with all sorts of electronic platforms. With my tabled questions, I call on every ministry separately to answer how many platforms it has been under its responsibility, how much these cost, what they have given the citizens, who is responsible for operating properly, how much it costs to maintain them and operate them, who is responsible for the suffering of their users. When we hear about this, then we will ask you - and know it from now on - who has been punished or who has to be punished under law for all this. The position of the Union of Centres will continue and the parliamentary representative will be placed, as will an amendment tabled by Mrs Megalo-Economist on the subject of the PSC. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u137	Thank you very much for Mr Saridis' special speaker in the Centroon Union. The President has the floor for a short speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u138	Mr President, it would be a good thing if they were not left out in such a provocative way in this Chamber. Differences are given, but lies are unacceptable. The subject of "Antigoni", which has been made public, is a subject that has been built by some who think they are the owners of ancient texts. I think they are very upset because the Left is trying to modernise and bring the magic of the ancient texts back to the fore. These people and their attitudes that make their troubles, their unacceptable, this constructed case, are the individuals and their attitudes that, in their meticulous and old-fashioned way of approach, have repulsed thousands of students, thousands of young people from ancient times. So they are afraid because our government wants to claim this wonderful past. So I would say that lies and manufactured news should be stopped and seen on the substance of how our children will approach the depth and - I insist - the magic of the ancient secretariat.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u139	You don't think I'm lying, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u140	Absolutely lies, because the subject of "Antignon", Mr. Comrade...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u141	What I'm saying is right and left.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u142	But you are a congressman. Do you understand that? Do you think you're an accidental citizen? What it sounds like, check it out.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u143	What it sounds like is what you do everywhere, with the leaks right and left, to see the reaction of the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u144	Interesting. I say not to comment, Mr President. It really throws the level of discussion too much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, before I give the floor to Mr Mavrota, a special speaker from Potami, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories, after he has previously participated in the educational programme 'Kappotiria' organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-four students and students and two educational attendances from the American College of PIERCE. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I would like to inform you that you are following a parliamentary procedure. We are discussing a bill from the Ministry of Education. The representatives of the parties now have the floor. Then the MPs will speak, and the Minister will speak, and the vote will be taken at the end of the day so that the bill becomes law. The special speaker from Potami, George Mavrotas, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Mr President. The lies do have to stop. On all sides, though! I'm gonna get into the bill. The bill, which we are discussing, for the State Certificate of Language, for the National Library of Greece and other provisions, was considered urgent by the Government, in many cases unjustified. Allow me, then, to say a few words about the procedure. We have said many times that legislative practice is not just a process, it is a substance. The better legislative practice, the more procedures are observed, the more time there is for consultation, the better the best solutions are integrated into the legislature, which combines the views of stakeholders. This, unfortunately, was done in this bill by express procedures, which surely leave gaps, which we will come to cover with next bills, as in this bill we come to correct errors and shortcomings of previous bills. This rolling legislation, the 'testing and error' legislation, as we are saying engineers, affects the credibility of the legislative work. This bill was termed "urgent", although only two - three of its thirty-five articles are of an urgent nature. Most of the articles are legal units in previous articles and provisions, which come to heal non-urgent matters. Although the chairman of the Committee on Morphic Affairs, Mr Sevastakis, has shown a good mood, calling for more than thirty bodies to be heard, they have not been able to express their views in three minutes. However, we have had difficulty in a day and a half, when we had a long time to read the multi-page memos they sent. If this had been done in the smooth e-consultation process, then it would certainly have been more effective to legislate. The great danger, ladies and gentlemen of the government, is not to get used to these practices, to see that a tsa-tsa-tsa-tsa-tsa-tsa-tsa-tsa-tsa-tsa-tsa-tsa-tsa-tsa-tsa-tsa-tsa-tsa-tsa-tsa-tsa-tsa-tsa-tsa-tsa-tsa-tsa-tsa-tsa-tsa-tsa-tsa-tsa-tsa-tsa-tsa-tsa-tsa-tsa-tsa-ts. Let's go to the bill. In the first chapter on the State Language Certificate, we have no objection. We would just like you to see in the regulation of economic matters, in Article 3, whether during the period of economic crisis we are experiencing, the possibility of the unemployed being involved free of charge in electronic examinations in the context of their training in foreign languages and of obtaining the certificate, which will be an additional supply in the search for work. In Chapter II, in the “Compatibility of National Library”, our main comments are: We have hardly used the Register of Officials of Public Administration that we made a few months ago. And the question is why we have made it - as long as we have done it, of course - if we do not use it in such procedures, in such positions as the Director-General's position. The three renowned figures, in our opinion, should be chosen by the Minister, but after an open process of call for interest, so that we know who has submitted nominations and who has finally been chosen. We have no objection to the selection procedure for a Director-General, which goes to an evaluation committee and makes a short list of three candidates from which the Minister chooses. It is strange, however, that the required qualifications of the Director-General do not include undergraduate or postgraduate studies. For the Digital Library - Article 4, paragraph 2j - we specifically suggested that the term 'free access' should be introduced into the law, i.e. 'consolidated free access', because even though you said that it would be free, Minister, access would be better to be formulated in the text. In Chapter C, in Article 11 on special education, we proposed that the provision in paragraph 1 may be reduced by five instead of three - provided for in the bill - the number of pupils per section, in order to help all children and general education by the educational parallel support and also the integration section in general. Moreover, the number of pupils in the membership section should not be higher than two pupils, unless the responsible school teacher considers that certain pupils can be homogenised, if they have similar characteristics, and create a similar group of four pupils. For the establishment of the Private Education Department referred to in Article 15, the question is why there should be a new self-employed address and whether this need arises after an evaluation of the Ministry's procedures and structures. In the Professional Qualifications Recognition Council, the GSC, referred to in Article 17, there are thousands of cases pending. Indeed, that is why, often, it is simply a matter of relocations made in ministries or after elections. So we need to see how the new composition of the ESA will resolve these problems and help to simplify and speed up the procedures involved. In Article 18, for the National Human Resources Education and Development Council, the ESRB, we propose that the President should also be chosen after an open invitation. Also, while in the Soviet Union you put a representative of GSEW and ADEDY, you did not, as we said, put a representative of the MEEA or representatives of the research world outside the ICES. In Chapter IV on higher education and research issues, in the new Article 30, the ambiguity that existed regarding assistant teachers and their process of permanentization or development is corrected and that is positive. In Article 31, I am going to go a little further, because it is an issue that we raised in the Committee on Educational Affairs a few days ago, because we believe that it actually affects the quality of university studies. It is, therefore, about the degree examination, which enables students to teach all courses in each examination period. I understand the need for an extra chance to finish those close to the degree or diploma. But what does that close? This is measured by the number of courses that each student owes, not by the fact that he has completed the normal semester. So such a provision could be favourable to those who owe three to five lessons, if we think that five to six lessons are in each semester, not those who owe more than twenty, but have completed four years or five years of regular school. Otherwise, with the massiveization of the measure, we will have an additional month of examinations every year and will do the universities' examination centres. So in order for this decision to be taken at the General Meetings of the Chambers - it is quite right that the Minister believes that this decision should go to the departments themselves - the provision should also leave some degrees of freedom in terms of the number of courses. We therefore propose to put an end to this provision that the General Assembly also decides on the conditions for students to participate in the degree examination so that it does not have to decide diplomatically: everyone or anyone. The provision that says: 'all subjects' should be formulated again and said 'in lessons', so that there is this flexibility in the General Assembly to decide on those conditions of participation. In Article 20, paragraph 1, for the EIF, care must be taken to ensure that the university is not dismantled from its administrative staff, that is, that all EIFs do not become managers. In paragraph 4, which concerns the transfer of teachers with a doctorate in personal positions of the EDPS to universities, we had expressed our objections and in May, because that is why we consider that schools are being disfellowshipped by high-level staff. Teachers with a doctorate are high-level staff. We first propose that the school or department define the cognitive object of the post to be filled, and then that the requests made by the interested parties for those posts should be made. No, that is to say, to see who the candidates are and to define the cognitive objects accordingly, to match them, but first to see the cognitive objects we need and then who the candidates fit in with them. Today there is a huge unequal distribution of candidate SSPs in departments and schools. There's a lot of people in someone else. The way we are proposing gives the flexibility to optimise the distribution of this staff in the field of higher education on the basis of and the planning of the departments. Paragraph 4(b) of the article in question also raises questions, because that provision effectively annuls the evaluation procedures, which have already been completed by decisions of the competent denominations so far. It seems to me, therefore, that there is an attempt to reopen a crisis of rejection of applications from certain candidates. I mean it. It should therefore be said that, where it says ‘the decision on which the Ministerial Decision has not been adopted’, it should normally say ‘the decision of the Quaestors concerned’. Furthermore, in paragraph 6, we are opposed to the issue of personal positions without open procedures in the positions of applying and teachers at the TEI. For Article 22, for the National School of Public Health, the same applies. These measures could only be accepted for a short transitional period, but clearly defined. It is also very problematic that the seven-member crisis committee, which is appointed, is essentially defined by the government by a joint ministerial decision of the Minister of Health and Minister of Education, which is a unique patent. For Article 23, for the Greek Open University, we see provisions to strengthen the role of the Senate, which is not currently in place - it is the governing committee - and weakening the jewels. Also, since the debate that took place in the committee, I understood that there is not much willingness to proceed with the procedures that will make it self-evident. At this point, I would also like the Minister's opinion when he speaks. The chairman of the board of directors has suggested that, because he has a tuition fee, he must always have the custody of the ministry. But many postgraduate students have tuition fees, but they operate in autonomous schools, in autonomous universities. We also heard from the chairman of the board of directors, to justify the authorisations of civil servants, saying that an injustice is restored, because it is the same distance education, from your home, with that of the physical presence at the normal university. On the one hand, we say that it is a normal university and the EAA and must enjoy the same rights and privileges, but on the other hand, we claim that it is not a normal university for the EAA and cannot have a normal administration, like all the universities. That is to say, we're figuring out, and we're contradicting. In the case of research, from what Mr Fotakis explained, at the end of the day, the GET - we had understood it wrong at first - is taking on only the paperwork of the ELIDEEC and not operationally. The procedures, in other words, will be from an essentially independent institution and will not be included in the General Secretariat of Research and Technology only in the piece concerning the bureaucratic burden. For Articles 26 and 27, I asked the Committee for Departments of Tourism, founded at the University of Piraeus and the University of the Aegean, as well as for the Polytechnic School of Ioannina and the rename of the School in Rethymnon. The question was whether the PPP, that is, the Quality Assurance Authority for Higher Education, has been asked about these changes. To conclude, let us say that we have tabled an amendment on the moves of the IGC members. The spirit of the legislator was that there should not be movements from regional universities to the universities of the centre. That was very reasonable, because otherwise we would actually have a deforestation of regional universities, because many would like to come to the universities in the centre. What we are proposing is, in fact, that it should not be forbidden to move teachers - members, that is - between the universities of the centre, that is to say from the University of Economics to the Polytechnics, from the University of Polytechnic to go to the EAFRD, which in the previous provision, as was formulated, was forbidden. We believe that this - let us say failure - will be overcome by this amendment. Also, we need to see again the tenth condition, which applies under the last law, before a member of the IPA moves. It is too much time, in our view, if we want to increase the mobility of PPC members between universities. In a later phase, we'll have to look at it. Let's go to article 29 for the addition to the Code of the Hellenic Nationality. We did not hide in the committees so that we could create a mini-governmental crisis, as we could easily, because this article was voted against by your fellow banks in power, the ANELs, who have well-known views of race purity, while PASOK and New Democracy have been reserved. So we have said to the committee clearly 'yes' and so we have passed the article in plenary, without haggling, without putting micro-policy above our principles and, above all, above the interests of children. Finally - and I conclude, Mr President - the well-known amendment tabled by Mrs Inglezis on the overtime of posted teachers has made us remember the question we have tabled and we urge you, at last, to answer, Minister, about how many seconded teachers are present in parties and to whom, to MPs and ministries. It is not wrong that there should be transparency in these matters. We are therefore waiting for the answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u147	Mr Mavrotas, in relation to what you mentioned about Article 29, on citizenship, I must tell you that a statement has been made by the ANELs officially that they are voting on Article 29, despite the personal position that he has taken from the former ANEL MEP.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u148	But he would not come to the House, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u149	That's right. We recognize it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u150	However, we appreciate your position, Mr Mavrota.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u151	We don't want you to appreciate us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u152	Good. However, the matter will be settled and there will be a statement after the Parliamentary Representative. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the list of speakers in principle. The first is Mr. John Stephen from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, Mr President. Recently the Enlightenment has become a central topic in public debate mainly through social networks, since the rest of the media are not particularly concerned. In any event, objective information is not as far as possible from being paid. So we learned a few months ago that the separation of powers was done by Russeus and not, as we all know, by Montesquier. At this stage we are learning about the house of Voltaire and the strangest things that took place before and after his purchase. The truth is that the New Democracy is a genuine child of Enlightenment, except that it interprets it according to the beam. Where the Enlightenment was denounced the freedom of the individual, the New Democracy understands the immunity of the ruler or where Russo proposes the faithful observance of the laws for the functioning of the democratic culture, the New Democracy understands the application of the laws only for the ordinary citizen, but not for its Chief. The proposals of the Enlightenment for equality, the freedom of the individual and democracy have little to do with the Civic Opposition, although they constitute a serious deposit for the French Revolution and the New Greek Enlightenment of the 18th century, whose written legacy enriches the shelves of the National Library. The National Library with this bill and its transfer to the premises of the "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation provides that it will provide services in line with those of the British Library. With this bill, the National Library enters the era of advanced libraries worldwide while keeping the role of depositary of all the intellectual legacy of Greekism. An important point of the bill is the provision for the delegation of actions, the promotion and operation of the national repository and a record of digital publications, data and metadata produced in the country or concerning Greek culture. In fact, in view of the rapid increase in online publications, it is clear how important it is to develop this service to maintain national, intellectual and artistic production. The National Library is the lighthouse for the development of other libraries, set up in a single network of exchanges of information, knowledge and professional communication. A very important article in the bill is Article 9. The recognition of service in the private sector, which applied to civil servants, also extends to teachers, restoring the equality and equal treatment of all civil servants. The measure restores a number of thousands of teachers who offered their teaching work in private education and continue to offer it now in public. The article on the State Language Certificate is worthy of attention, since the terms and procedures for conducting the examinations for its acquisition with multiple profits for Greek citizens are updated in accordance with the current social needs. Amongst other things, there is the arrangement for the development of an electronic training centre to support free of charge the candidates' individual preparation and for the first time for a public body the self-financing of the system only of candidates' exams, which are 50% lower than the respective systems of other countries. Another important point is Article 7 of the bill concerning school excursions. For me personally, in addition to being clearly defined and simplified procedures for who is responsible for the tour, it is important to provide for not counting the absence of pupils with excellent performances, which will need to be involved in national, European or global meetings for artistic events. Because excellence, you know, is assisted by acts and legislation at the public school and not by hollow statements that facilitate the interests of school heads. I'd like to make a reference to special lawsuits, because a lot of things have been heard. In the two years of this government, an additional six hundred disabled school support units have been set up. Appointed this year only about ten thousand alternates to meet the needs of children with disabilities, when in previous years the corresponding figure was half, i.e. five thousand. With regard to what has been heard, namely that there will not be specific sections for students with needs in mountain and island regions, things are completely different, to the present. We are not discussing, of course, that the number of three children for special kindergartens, special primary schools and special vocational training workshops for these children does not apply. To conclude, Mr President, since I have two minutes more, I would like to refer to the establishment of the University of Ioannina, which is my place of origin and where I am elected. The Polytechnic School for the University of Ioannina was absolutely necessary. It worked there for many years the Department of Science Engineering, the Department of Computer Engineering and Information Technology. It was founded in 2009, but with a brave decision by the then Minister of Education, Mr. Baltas, the Department of Architects operated. In my opinion it is absolutely essential for the University of Ioannina, which is, in fact, the University of Epirus, as distances are now being nullified, mainly for reasons of academic ethics and the protection of the professional rights of graduates from these departments who have not had any professional right at all. I am particularly pleased that this government today is legislating for the University of Ioannina Polytechnic School, which will, in my opinion, make a further contribution to the revival of a very good university, with official research data from one of the best universities in the country, as well as to further development in the coming years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Mr. Stefo. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, fifty students and students and four educational attendants from the 4th High Tower of Elias. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] To inform students and students that they are attending a meeting for the Ministry of Education bill. We are on the point where representatives of the parties have spoken and are given the floor by various Members. Then the Minister will speak, the meeting will continue to take place this afternoon - perhaps at night - and the bill will become their state law. Continue with Mr.Ioannis Kefaliannis, Member of the New Democracy, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, Mr President. Although I did not intend to make a reference, I would at least like to express my regret - not to use any heavier designations for the previous speaker - because an inappropriate attack on a particular member of the family of the President of the Police Department has been continued, and explanations have been given. I think this distortion of reality, of truth, should stop here somewhere. Of course I understand his anxiety, in order to offset possibly the impressions of the Prime Minister's secret journey to Paris and I would say...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u156	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u157	Let me go, Mr. Stephoe. You can answer. I'm not talking personally, I'm politically making the report. I personally, while I monitor the country's foreign policy at least, I think this is the first time that the Prime Minister of Greece has gone on a secret journey abroad and that he's plucking around on the back - let's call it popular - is forced and giving such explanations. He could of course make a announcement to the Maximos Mansion, saying that he was found in France without giving further details, because the other day he heard in the Chamber that there is also the so-called secret diplomacy. I'm coming to the bill now. Ladies and gentlemen, if I am not mistaken, this draft law must be the fourth or fifth of the Ministry of Education in the Government of SYRIZA and Independent Greeks. We can now safely see that after two years, after so many dialogues on dialogues, studies on studies and, of course, the government's well-known endless 'forward', with the continuing, of course deferrals and modifications, it is unfortunately clear that the government either does not want or cannot intervene in education in any other way, apart from the one we are accustomed to and unfortunately also discerned by this draft law. I will not go far enough and will certainly not dwell on the issue of the fragmentation and logic of the wig or the apparent mood of almost every article to re-paint its well-known ears of tens of potential voters and serve the micro-political purposes. I'm going to stand in another way, another dimension of government legislation. It is the absence of communication between the leadership and the service, the lack of understanding between the ministries on an important issue, which obviously has not emerged as much as it should have been. This is, Minister, the link between tourism and higher education. With Article 26, you are to set up sections of tourist studies in two universities: at the University of the Aegean, based in Chios and at the University of Piraeus. I'll tell you what you're doing. Upgrading the quality of the tourist product is directly related to education. That's what he finds us to be in agreement. And only the international experience of seeing, one will find that investment in human resources is the main priority. But you forgot, Minister, that the previous government of New Democracy - PASOK with L.4316/2014 under the Minister's office of Mr. Loverdos, who is present, had introduced two sections of tourist studies, one in the Aegean University, based in Rhodes, and the other in the University of Crete, based in Rethymnon. These sections together with the corresponding University of Thrace to promote tourist studies were specific: They were English-speaking undergraduate departments directed at foreign students outside the European Union. So they connected their operation with the payment of tuition fees. In other words, they could, to a certain extent, finance themselves, cover their operating costs without burdening the state budget and, of course, without adding additional burdens to the universities. Most importantly, however, the philosophy of their operation has had a very specific objective: to make the front or, if you want the front window of higher education to attract foreign students from the Balkans and the wider Mediterranean, which is, I think, a declared and implemented target of our neighbours. And of course, what better area to achieve this objective than tourism, the comparative advantage, the backbone of the Greek economy? In May 2015 in the first bill that the then government of SYRIZA and Independent Greeks had given a consultation was, of course, planned to abolish, as you will remember. The fact that this provision has been withdrawn is solely due to the reaction of the citizens of those societies, but also to the reaction of the Members of the Grand Representation, the New Democracy. Then we had tabled a question with twenty-eight other colleagues, number 2139/2015, which I submit in the Minutes along with the Minister's reply. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Kefaloyannis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In the answer that the Minister had given us at the time - if I remember correctly, it was on Mr Baltas's government - it was said that the responsibility for the failure to implement these sections belonged to the previous Government, namely the Government of New Democracy and PASOK, which allegedly did not proceed with the adoption of the relevant decrees, which is, of course, untrue, because this law was published in the FEK on 24-12-2014, that is, one week before the election statement, which SYRIZA had then caused because of the vote during the election of the President of the Republic. I would like, Minister, to ask you this self-evident question: if the previous government has shown - as has been answered by the question at the time - that is to say for a week that the Presidential Decrees have not been issued - you know very well that this was impossible - then how do you characterise the fact that two years after the present government has not proceeded with this procedure with regard to the Presidential Decrees? And the second self-evident question is: do you want these departments finally, Minister? I'd like an answer. Do you believe in their need to establish them? Do you believe in the need to establish foreign-language undergraduate departments, which will attract foreign students, help universities financially and upgrade their role and prestige? And if so, why don't you move on to their implementation? I would like a clear answer and put it on the subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u158	Thank you Mr. Ioannis Kefaliannis, Member of the New Democracy. Mr Dimitrios Koukoutsis, Member of the Golden Dawn, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u159	Thank you, Mr President. There is a lot of talk of the will of this government to help children with disabilities and learning difficulties. Of course, we have the example of those people who are specialists and who are involved, for example those who are therapists, for whom we know that the contract that has been made is actually declining their profession. Let us assume that in public schools the government and the Ministry really wants to help the situation so that through schools there can be every help a child needs with learning difficulties. Could the Ministry hire scholars to primary education, special education and further pediatric hospitals, CEDHs, medical centres, so that parents do not need the private sector, which has virtually been nullified. On the other hand, we see that the Greek society is in revolt with the government's decision to include refugees in schools in order not to deprive them of education. Is it only a sensitivity or an organised plan of the rulers covered by the supposed veil of solidarity? According to L.4332, with a statement and application due to birth and school in Greece, registration in the first class of Greek primary school and continued follow-up, as had been done under previous laws, enabled foreign children to acquire citizenship with nine years of schooling. Today, more room is given for the acquisition of Greek citizenship to children of refugees and migrants. The risk of altering national homogeneity is therefore present. Is the Ministry interested in education or to take citizenship because that's what the law says? The truth is that in the years of Postpopulation the spear's peak towards the Greek people, against the alteration of the Greek people's national consciousness was always the - within introductory - "Ministry of Education". It once was a'religious thing'. These times have passed too. But the question is, by faithfully following the Kishinger Doctrine, you also continue to beat the Greek people in their customs, in their education, in their language. The only resisting are Greek nationalists. Faced with these plans, you will always have us in front of you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, Mr. Koukoutsi. Mr Andreas Loverdos, Member of the Democratic Association, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u161	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to take the floor from Mr Kefaloniann who remembered something about which there are questions, because two years now he has not gone ahead. When I was the Minister of Education for a few months and in the context of the problems that this country has at the moment, I had brought to the House a draft law - and in cooperation with Mrs Kefaliannis - in order to establish two sections which would be addressed to students outside the European Union, with a teaching in English and with a tuition, on an undergraduate level. We were talking about two sections, one in Crete and the other in Rhodes. Of course, that government fell and the relevant decrees did not go ahead because there was no time to do this, as a decree takes months to complete it. I put it as a topic when I delivered it to you, Mr. Kourakis. Two years have passed, with a failed attempt to eliminate this regulation, in which as obsessive opposition you then opposed it. I had heard, in fact, that Mr. Friends in an interview with Mr. Hadinikolaou had said that it sounded good to him as an idea. He didn't know these were legal situations. We arrived today in the salvage year 2017, where the country has its problems and this issue sleeps when interest is huge. In a postgraduate section of the University of Crete, for twenty postgraduate students had then submitted ninety two applications. The interest is enormous and the government is literally sleeping, without any more having the problems that appeared in 2005, problems of ideological confusion and ambiguity about the historic time we are in. But, ladies and gentlemen, what can one expect from a government that in 2015 abolished as a lesson in the Circular of High School education the teaching of the work of Thucydides "Election of Pericles"? What about them? That is what we are talking about. Nobody expects anything. As the colleague mentioned in the past, and so he gave me the opportunity to say what I am saying, I should like to say that he made me an impression, ladies and gentlemen, of what a university professor gave me yesterday, namely that in Spetses, Anargy, a sign in a building that said that it was remodeled in my day the new governors took it down. I don't care. The point is to make works, not to have labels. But this move shows the way you think. You do not respect anything, even when I manifested myself in relation to the Greek people and their interests, such as the case of the university departments mentioned above. Now, in relation to two initiatives that we have taken at legislative level, we ask you to accept that this year will also be the case and that the possibility of a second participation in the full - time examinations of students who have not competed for reasons of force majeure, health or others. That's always the case. I believe that, for reasons of legislative care, we are today in the abolition of this possibility. I want you to know that there has been a great reaction to the students' space for this and they're right. There is no reason now to have mobilisations in what I have obviously is fair. I would ask the Government to accept our amendment. And since we are talking about our own amendments, I would like to make another reference. Rule 14, it is a provision which I had brought to the House at that time as a Minister of Education, which has something to do with teachers in minority schools and had not been supported by all sides. However, this regulation, which was then condemned, has yielded very good results. This intervention, in a country of the European Union which is the first concern of it, is - and must be - respect for the rule of law, the rights of all citizens, regardless of their individual choices in matters of religion, history, tradition - as the rule of law we are all the same, we are all equal as citizens of that state - had yielded many rich fruits and some who had criticised it, today admits its correctness. However, implementation problems have arisen and the government brings a regulation with Article 14. We shall vote 'yes' in favour of this amendment by the Government, but on condition that the amendment we have tabled, which is expressly assigned to the Democritus University of Thrace, and in particular to part thereof in Alexandroupolis, be accepted there for the training of all teachers, the Greek teachers in these schools, and the minority and others. With this logic we ensure full rule of law, equality and have the opportunity to offer all students who have participated in Greek schools, without discrimination. I would ask the government very much to see this as well. Our amendment has been tabled, incorporated and we shall vote in this sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u162	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. Mrs Kerameau has asked for the floor on a point of order. We're listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u164	Mr President, you have already made a statement on the attitude the Independent Greeks will take. And to our surprise we heard from you that the Independent Greeks will vote for the provision on citizenship. And I say 'to our surprise' because the Independent Greeks were also represented in the committee by the rapporteur and voted against the provision and, just now, again with the rapporteur, they said they voted against it. I want to understand. Let the Annell explain what they're doing. And in what capacity - with all due respect - Mr President, do you express the Independent Greeks and take a seat in order to vote for this disputed provision, which is Article 29 of the Code of Greek citizenship? We want to understand exactly how the government coalition works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u165	Let me answer you, Mrs. Kerameau. The position of the Independent Greeks as well as of each party will be expressed during the vote. But because of Mr. Katsiki's position...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u166	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u167	rapporteur, yes. The information I had in order not to create false impressions during the period until the vote took place was what I told you. Parliamentary representatives will soon begin to speak, so there will be full clarification. I'm just saying it so no false impressions are created. If I was wrong, I mean, in the end, if it seems that this isn't the case, I'll apologize. But precisely because the Greek people are watching us, I want out what is really happening. Because I had this very substantial and valid information, I had to put things in place. But the full landscape will be clear during the vote. In the meantime, we will have the parliamentary representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u168	But from the placement to the committee...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u169	We shall see during the vote. Ms. Merope Jufi, Member of SYRIZA, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u170	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, may I speak in spite of the deceptive remarks 'what does any of them expect?' And indeed the previous Minister of Education, Mr. Loverdou, because I think there is a need for a part of the Greek people to listen to our own humble thoughts and I believe that there will be interest in the House as well. So I start by saying that my opinion is that at the meetings of the committee in the last few days, but also today, it was obviously recorded and hidden in the different views we have with our opposition parties on education. I would like to say, however, that potential shocks have been recorded. Of course, the New Democracy has accused us of fragmentation, curfew, lack of planning and depositing emblematic arrangements, while the Democratic Compact with its rapporteur has denounced that the bill has included arrangements without documentation and without consultation. An answer to this section is that, at the same time, ladies and gentlemen, there is an ongoing and open national social dialogue on education, which of course aims to draw up a national action plan aimed at upgrading public education and combating social inequalities, and we hope that the quality improvement of the Greek educational reality will be achieved, taking into account, of course, the existing suffocating Memorandum of Understanding, as well as the OECD guidelines, conditions which have contributed at least in recent years to the criticalness of the Greek education system. So we have been discussing for some time now and recently with educational bodies, trade unions and experts, but also among us Members of Parliament, in an attempt to formulate a realistic and socially-needed plan with a depth of six years which may include a detailed timetable for short-, medium- and long-term measures and aims, in particular, at finding common sites for the benefit of the educational community and the education system itself. At the same time, however, it aims to testify to our position, with the protection of some of our basic principles, despite the adverse circumstances and the difficult landscape. For us education is part of the country's future development strategy. We invest in education for all and show due respect in previous education bills, since whatever useful we include in our plans, but on the other hand we are trying to mitigate the sufferings of the past. Obviously there is no time to talk about the events of this two-year period, but to say two words. For the first time after many years primary and secondary schools were fully equipped with staff and material. Twenty-three thousand alternate recruitments were made, five hundred appointments to higher education and so many are scheduled in 2017. Care has been increased for students of all types. Furthermore, the new type of full-time primary and preschool education was institutionalised, a change in philosophy in the examination system in high school began and in a short time we are preparing for changes and the way in which we access higher education. We have also taken care of the education of refugees' children by preventing their social exclusion and isolation, while strengthening research and innovation by supporting young scientists' programmes in an effort to tackle Brain Drain abroad. So the draft legislation under discussion comes to strengthen some of these efforts to which I have referred, rationalising and improving a number of aspects, always for the benefit of the socially weak, by strengthening as much as possible the equal opportunities framework and by guaranteeing the rights of working teachers. The basic institutional intervention of the bill is the arrangements, as other colleagues have said, for the State Certificate of Language, when it is known that the majority of children resort to precise examinations carried out by private bodies. The regulations introduced seek to obtain less costly and simple automated procedures, improving the operating conditions of the exams by means of forms, low exams and electronic exams, and, of course, to facilitate the process for the region, so that it is multiple the profit of students who can prepare themselves with the appropriate electronic platform. You will, however, allow me to comment on some of the provisions contained in the eleventh chapter on the regulation of special education and training. There was a lot of discussion about the degradation of special treatment. But you will allow me to say that the data reveal a completely different reality. Indeed, this area was seriously downgraded, with chronic loose ends, empty and naughty institutional framework. But for our government it took priority. In the past year, a very systematic effort has been made, after years of indifference, inertia and depreciation, which is recorded by the establishment of thirty-five new special schools and lyric classes and five hundred and thirty-three new branches of integration, which we very much need. In fact, new establishments of special schools, particularly professional schools and high school are expected in the next year. Subsequent recruitments were undertaken as a priority in special education and then in general education, and ten thousand new recruitments were made, and in the past few years they were much less. There is also a table which I will table in the Minutes. Are there much more needs? Of course! But does this legislation improve the current difficult situation? We support the fact that yes and, in the short time I have, I will try to show some positive changes, such as not counting the degree of the second language taught to students with special learning needs, which seems to reduce the stress of these children. Another such change is the possibility of certifying the adequacy of Braille's knowledge, which the contribution of university departments can be exploited here. Of course, as regards the subject on which a lot of discussion has taken place, namely the issue of the minimum and maximum number of pupils per section in all types, I would like to assure you that even where the number of three pupils is not complete, it will be possible to ensure the smooth and unobstructed education and training of students, even in the most remote parts of our country. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Of course, there are many other topics, such as equal access, since the exclusion of disabled people from the introductory examinations in higher schools of dance and dramatic art, which was a request for a disability movement, is withdrawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u171	Mrs. Jufi, please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u172	I will end in a minute, Mr President. The last thing I would like to mention is for the University of Ioannina, from which I come, where the establishment of the Polytechnic School with the inclusion of pre-existing departments was a constant request from the university and local society, and ultimately the only way to solve the long-term problem of the professional development of their graduates. Finally, in spite of the unfavourable circumstances and budgetary sluggishness, this bill, in our opinion, introduces a number of critical regulations, which are a continuation of our Government's efforts in the multitude of education. In this effort, the New Democracy - and not just! - after expressing a majority of the supporters of the educational coup or also a friend of the proposals from the most inconsistent, let me say, private schoolmasters - we have heard their proposals - perhaps also a perpetrator of the punishing evaluation of schools and teachers or also a defender of the availability, disciplinary and dismissals in education. But the JRC also blames us, not because we did not make it, but why we did not, in their opinion, want to correct the demolished landscape in order to confirm their basic theory, that substantial changes can not be made to the capitalist landscape in favour of the subordinate classes. A quick answer could be Breech's words: "What good does it do to the throat in the mud to keep the nails of your hands clean?" We, ladies and gentlemen, will insist. We owe it to all generations who fought with us or long before us for the dream, that is to say, the left's policy in government education policy positively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, Mrs. Merope Jufi. I would ask the next speakers to limit themselves to the seven minutes they will have. The Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs Mr. Kostas Gavroglou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, Mr President. I will try to say a few arguments about some of the provisions of the bill. I will not go into the procedural matters that many colleagues have spoken about about one third of their time in procedural matters. There are very serious reasons why it comes as an emergency. It's in the bill, we talked about it in the committees, I don't want to have any more time on this case. I want, before entering into specific provisions of the bill, to say two words about the more general reform framework in which we are discussing this bill. Last year schools opened up on time, after many decades, and, as I have repeatedly said, this is a very good thing for our society. Leave which government it was when it happened. It is a very good thing for our society, and that is why not only the leadership of the Ministry of Education and all the Services, but also all the actors, regardless of their political guidelines, fought. Schools opened up, but did not open without problems and alas if they opened without problems. After so many decades, obviously, there are extremely complex issues that need to be resolved. So what we are saying is to move forward with successive approaches by resolving various problems so that the opening-up of schools to normality is not regarded as something completely original. So we are strengthening what has happened, improving them and taking new initiatives. We are moving towards the consolidation of the entire school and the rationalization of studies. As you know, there's a lot of high school and high school lessons, there's repetitions in books, etc., things that don't help at all. In strengthening, as we have said, all the procedures following the opening up of schools and the problems we have identified, we are moving on to some initiatives. The first initiative is high school, the introductory exams and the first years at the university. It's a big project. It's a project in which we call on the opposition to discuss it. The evidence is difficult, but we are talking about it. As the whole society knows, the last two grades of high school are canceled. It's not the teachers' fault. There is a more collective responsibility for this. We have an institution outside schools, which has managed to devour the school and never happened in history. It devours school another institution providing education, an institution that is not in the middle of school, and we need to really re-establish high school. So the last two classes of high school need to be dramatically upgraded. Children must be led to obtain a national sanitary which has a serious status in society. Examinations must be dismantled, the only characteristic they have is that they are functional and impractical. Pedagogics don't play any role, we all know it. Kids learn from the outside of their homework and they go and write and whoever hasn't learned it is cut off. This, in any case, is a pedagogically unacceptable thing and, of course, for children at that age, who are tyrannized in the way they have been tyrannized for the last two years before they finish school. It is therefore a pedagogically unacceptable system. To keep good, which, as I have told you, is technical in nature, is not pedagogical, is the inconsistency of the process, and to try slowly to see how the children will enter the university with the degree of their dismissal. We need to discuss this in his details. We will discuss this in the Committee on Morphic Affairs and it is not something that can be done from time to time. This has a horizon of at least three years. Of course, nothing can be done if there is at the same time no national training plan for teachers and, of course, a national self-assessment plan for school units. The second major project is legislation on higher education institutions, which, apart from resolving the issue of postgraduate students, will proceed not only in new ways of electing the project, but also in the establishment of academic regional councils, where universities, TEIs and research centres will coexist for the first time and will have to consult each other on the development needs of the region and how these institutions will play a major role in development processes. The Prime Minister tomorrow morning will announce the establishment of a committee on education finances. There was no such committee on economics, from preschools to doctorals, from the establishment of the Greek state. In this committee we asked for experts to be involved who will show us other parties and I would like to welcome this fact, that all parties generously and without any hindrance, have indicated experts. Two parties did not indicate any experts. It's the JRC and the Golden Dawn. But everything else has been indicated by experts. It will be a committee which will study its education finances and the government is committed in at least three years to close the shells in terms of inappropriate expenditure, so that there is not at least the pathogenicity that exists to date in this respect. Tomorrow is the first meeting of this committee and we believe that by June we will have the first very good results. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] Last theme of the framework in which this bill is being discussed is the theme week. The thematic week is something that the previous political leadership has worked on. It's something that's going to happen in high school. It is something that must be done. One week, as the Circular says very clearly, gives a huge flexibility to the teachers' association, which may one day make it possible to integrate it into the courses that take place. There's a huge flexibility. It is one of which no parent can legally withdraw his children. We have excellent readings from teachers who have taken it on their back. I would like to welcome this fact, that teachers will bear the burden of this case. That is why they should be careful that some do not match their responses to camps which they would not want to involve themselves either. The theme week, as you know, has the issue of nutrition, it has the issues of addiction, which are not only in substances, but also in electronic games, in mobiles, in facebooks, in socialisation often among young people and, of course, it also has the issue of relations between sexes. It makes me a terrible impression, which has been isolated in the part concerning parents in particular - because the programme has and has also a parental training, a debate between parents, with material that is posted and democratically can be downloaded - and that some are afraid and shaking in being able to discuss issues that society is discussing, the whole of society accepts and is a regime now all over the world. About the bill we've submitted, I'll explain a few things that have been put forward. I propose at the end of the meeting that we discuss the amendments and legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u175	Minister, just tell us which of the amendments you will be acceptable to so that we know.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u176	What of the amendments?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u177	Parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u178	It's the parliamentarians. All right, I can tell you, when I go to the cabinet, but you know that the government has tabled only one amendment, which relates to the retired. But we have a lot of legislative improvements. I want it to be clear that legislative improvements have not only been made because we have discovered either omissions or some legal weaknesses. The large majority, more than 3/4, came as a result of the debates held in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media today. We have accepted many of the things that have seemed perfectly correct and hadn’t considered them. I have no problem accepting such intervention. Some people think it's a sign of weakness to be able to understand. Let's get out of this culture and you'll see that we've responded to too many issues. Now I'm going to talk a little telegraphically about various more specific issues. For the State Certificate of Language Learning: It is right that students should be excluded from the paradoxes and we will try to find ways to bring them in the next time. It's technical. We will try to resolve this issue. Surely pupils of public schools should be different in this respect to the economic dimension of the state certificate and, of course, to facilitate the access of small and medium-sized enterprises in every way. I agree. It was a very good remark. I think Mrs. Kerameau did it for the first time. Let's put it. If it is not put forward today for technical reasons, it is clear that we will do so and move on. Secondly, the National Library and its transfer to the Cultural Centre of the Foundation "Stavros Niarchos". I will not comment on whether it falls into the hands or fingernails of capitalism, but let us finally enjoy some positive things. The National Library leaves a historic building, which does not at all meet the needs of a modern library, as well as the needs of a modern audience in Lyricia, and goes to a place that on March 1st, in a few days, completes its transfer agreement to the public. This will have been transferred to the public, as I told you, in two weeks. So there one of the jewels will be the National Library. I obviously agree - I think Mr Mavrotas said so, and I think we have put it - that everything must be free to those who use the library. But know that the new function of the library will almost nothing to the public with the old one. There is the National Library Network, which takes place for the first time. All public libraries are linked with a view to municipal and school libraries. The National Library is also being transferred an extremely important literature workshop, which is the Library "Philippos Eliou", which is now at the Benaki Museum and has published monumental volumes in the meantime. I could go on, but he's got the bill and, as I told you, I think that's one thing to make us all proud. National Council for Human Resources Education and Development. I now do not understand a number of colleagues. So far they have said how education will be linked to production. There's something going on that's going to link education to production, and there's still problems. Only scales can't be ours. The ESS, the National Education Council, was a council which - if not wrong, because it is very difficult to see how many members it has - I think it has more than seventy-five members and has a structure almost a parallel ministry. It's no coincidence that in the last eight years he's been in sedation, it wasn't working. It's not like it's happened in the last year. It is that for eight years it did not work and it did not work, because it could not work. Can I tell you something? I think the ESS, at the time it was set up, was a very progressive body. Social actors and political parties, etc., have also participated, but seasons change, the need for a society is changing. It can no longer be this type of institution, because it is not the same type of society we live in today. So what we are saying - and I will say about the SPS - is a few very few instruments, which the logic of making them perfectly clear. What do we got here? We have educational bodies and production bodies. Both of them should consult each other on a more rational curriculum on education issues. I say this because many in society think that the educational institutions have an obligation to solve the unemployment problem. The educational institutions don't have him. Educational institutions train, provide education in general and, of course, also a professional orientation. It is not that we have a society - and before that - that is full of work and we do not have the respective graduates to understand them. Can I tell you something else? The University of Athens was founded in 1837. Since 1874 every dean who took over and made the inaugural speech said how bad he feels that children who get a degree will stay in unemployment. Look at it. At the University of Athens there are all the reasons. So I want to tell you that this thing has come into our minds, and we are saying, in fact, that we should modernise many of the cognitive objects and fit not in today's labour market but in its prospects. This is only the case with the coexistence of these two institutions. There has been a lot of talk about the initiatives we have taken for children with disabilities. I really believe that some of my fellow Members are becoming a spiral, because it is an issue which, in any case, is what it is. I say not to stay in anger on this issue, because it is an extremely important issue. Don't spit on them. We have thousands of other things that can be a spice. Let me remind you in particular - and Mr Baxvanakis will tell you in greater detail - that last year we appointed tens of thousands of teachers specifically for this, when only two years ago they had only six thousand. It's a first priority thing, and we're trying after decades that these children were left behind at the mercy of their families, and we're still gonna be able to...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u179	Not like that!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u180	You don't? Well, there's one thing to disagree with. It's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u181	That was the only thing!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u182	Oh, that was the only thing. Okay, we might have more. In any case, I think we should at least recognize and see how this whole case with disabled people will obviously be improved, but without, I insist, either of us taking advantage of this very serious social and, obviously, personal problem. Council for the Recognition of Professional Qualifications. We have heard both the opposition and some Members of the Co-population and also include a representative of the IATP and a representative of the bodies. Depending on the subject of the meeting, one body is taking part, and this has also been indicated by the bodies in the debate. Except we have to say something else. As you know, S.A.L.D. recognizes professional rights. We are moving on to the establishment of the AACC in the way we form it, because behind it there is the political will to solve a huge social problem which is worsening every year. Here, then, we also call on the institutions to tell us how we will all solve it together. We cannot have thousands of such children every year, some of whom have very problematic studies, but the vast majority have excellent studies. We're not 20 years ago when the number was small. So this is an issue that we want to solve as well within the framework of Article 16, within the framework of the laws, but there are many ways and I call on the bodies when they come to the meetings to try and find ways to resolve them. High School of Public Health. Do we want a School of Public Health or do we want a School of Public Health? No one can say we don't want to. Nowadays, then, there is a regime that is unique, there is no other regime, which is that they are making postgraduate programmes, which are recognized, people who do not have a university status in an institution that does not have a degree. What exactly is that? So what we're talking about is starting to settle the High School of Public Health. You know what? The High School of Public Health, as it refers to public health, is not mandatory for it to be part of medical schools or can rather be part of medical schools. So that is all we have to look at. Let us see how the respective schools operate in a modern European context. Tourism has been mentioned. We activate the department in the Aegean Sea and the department at the University of Piraeus, which, due to the sin of the “ATHENA” system, had officially shut down, but were essentially there. There were other sections as directions. We say, therefore, that tourism is the country's heavy industry. We all say this here, except in the country's heavy industry, we have nothing to train people to manage them. First of all, we say that we are decommissioning these two sections, which were also established by decisions of the National Education Council, etc., from the existing ones. Secondly, there were schools in Rhodes and Crete, possibly elsewhere. These schools are not part of the Ministry of Education, they belong to the Ministry of Tourism. Our intention is with the Ministry of Tourism to bring about more regulation soon and upgrade these schools. Thirdly, I have not seen anything in the criticism of you accusing us of something we do not have here, but of bringing it. We know today that there are no serious public schools for tour guides. The heavy industry in the country, therefore, depended on departments closed down by previous governments, schools which, in any case, no one took care of them and the closure of public tours. The issue of tours, as you know, is extremely important because they are ambassadors to our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u183	For the foreign language departments?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u184	It's the next thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u185	Minister, I would ask you to complete this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u186	You're right. So the issue of tours will be brought forward and we will actually bring it in a way that we hope will enjoy a wider consensus. I move on to the foreign-language departments, to which Mr Kefaliannis referred. There's the International University. The upgrading of the International University should be on the agenda. Today, I fear that the International University does not fulfil the role it must perform. It's on our schedule to call the command, to see first of all what it takes to get one step ahead. Secondly, with regard to the establishment of foreign-language sections, let us not call it the establishment of foreign-language sections, but the possibility of certain programmes being offered for foreign-language purposes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u187	We have passed a law on this, Minister. I said that in my speech too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u188	I didn't say there was no law. I'm trying to make a political clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u189	There's a law. He wants a presidential decree. For the purpose of applying it, we are the ones who say.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u190	Listen to what I'm trying to say, and then you tell me. There are two of the many things that, if we don't resolve them very strictly, they'll blow us off the system. One is the issue of foreignlanguages, and the other is the matter of distance postgraduate diplomas. What do I mean? There is a stress in the universities - and rightly so - because the universities are being undermined in a truly unacceptable way, but these are our possibilities. There are, therefore, some possibilities for additional funds to come. We should welcome these possibilities, but, if there are no serious checks in place, then it will become an end to money coming.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u191	We don't disagree.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u192	I'm glad you don't disagree, really. So what we are saying is that the remote and presidential decree on foreign languages is in this logic, that we should say to each other that we will resolve it by June, but I now say that it will be such a regulation, which will not undermine both undergraduate and postgraduate and others. I know I'm saying things myself. I'm glad you're accepting it so we can move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u193	Minister, I'm telling you again. You have twenty-six minutes. We still have forty colleagues, eight parliamentary representatives and three other Deputys.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u194	You're absolutely right. I'll tell the PPE and I'll stop. I'll talk to my dentist. Regarding the PPE: Today there are premiums - not only in active terms, but also in precedents - for which there is a risk of public intervention for amounts which they have not collected from universities that owed to the university's special accounts.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u195	Exercise of prosecution.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u196	"Prosecuting exercise", as Mrs Kerameos says, which is obviously a much more appropriate expression. We consider this unacceptable, because the democracies, and the current and previous authorities, have absolutely no responsibility on this matter. We are committed to the next bill, which will be for the LAGs and the postgraduate, bringing a provision - which is obviously to state in legal ways - and to find ways in which people who owe to pay what they owe, without blame for the budgets. In the meantime, we will send circulars to the special accounts, which we will tell you what I said now, so that they can use it in any prosecutor's office for prosecution.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u197	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u198	Mr President, please, the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u199	Would you like something, Mr. Javarra, on a point of order? What do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u200	Mr President, just one question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u201	Here you go, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u202	Because there's already been criminal prosecution, when do you intend to bring in the next draft law, so we can know? It may be a gift of free will.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u203	If it has already been exercised, as you can see, we cannot intervene in justice. That's what I'm telling you. I'm saying, as I said, in a month, in five weeks, that class, not later...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u204	With amendment, can we not?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u205	I would not like to tell you why.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u206	Ladies and gentlemen, we will go too late in the evening if we continue this way.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u207	Mr President, let us clarify this a little.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u208	Mr Javarra, you will speak after three colleagues, because we will do the same: three colleagues and one parliamentary representative. Mr Theocharopoulos has also asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u209	Mr. Loverdo, in the meantime we'll send...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u210	Minister, you're usually a little small.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u211	Mr President, I did this once.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u212	Okay, once. Mrs Maria Antonio, from New Democracy, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u213	Mr President, I would just like to ask the Minister only about the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u214	Mr. Theocharopoulos, you will speak. When you talk, won't you tell them? Mrs. Antoniou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u215	Mr President, I would like to ask that we put time in the first place. Ladies and gentlemen, although the leadership of the Ministry of Education has changed, the Ministry's way of legislating has, unfortunately, remained just as bad and rough. As the previous Minister, in the context of a preliminary dialogue - national dialogue on education, as he was saying - he also brought bills, regulations, multi-projects, which concerned all levels of education and research, so his current successor, Mr Gavroglou, rushes with this bill to follow practically the same practices. So, today, in plenary, it introduces a bill - a broom, a draft legislation and has been misunderstood to the committees that I have said so. But here, he just explained a bunch of arrangements. With thirty-six articles for now - thirty-seven, thirty-eight? How much did it happen? That is where I hope we will remain - and more than seventy regulations covering the entire educational spectrum of all three levels of education and choosing the urgency procedure. Mr President, you said a moment ago that 'we want a consensus'. No dialogue? How will this consensus be achieved without even giving the bodies the right to place themselves on the seventy regulations that you make? Three-minute locations of the operators? Minister, education matters do require programming, substantial dialogue and broad consensus, which you have not followed with this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill contains arrangements that are partly agreed between us, such as that for the State Certificate of Language and the National Library. From there on, however, like all the drafts of the Ministry of Education which have come to SYRIZA - ANEL over the last two years, it includes mainly photographic arrangements and arrangements, culminating in the provision in paragraph 2 of Article 20, which many of the committees have pointed out. Before, however, I refer to Rule 28, which is the most characteristic example, Mr Minister, of misrepresentation and curriculum, and which concerns research, I will make a comment on Articles 26, 27, concerning the establishment of university departments, schools and so on. Minister, you told us - and now, a moment ago, in your speech - that you are doing so to put under an umbrella, to secure, to effectively settle some data. So it's an arrangement, as I told the committees. Push, as you have said, to correct the bad texts. Well you do, as long as your concern and sensitivity, Minister, are not selective. So I invite you to do the same for the University of Western Macedonia Polytechnic School and to restore immediately there the enormous injustice suffered by the abolition of the Architecture Engineering Department in Kastoria. You know well that there are ready building infrastructures. They cost millions of euros to taxpayers Greeks. Make sure you make use of them, by desolating and destroying them. Go ahead and establish, after you've made arrangements, academic department that was erroneously abolished. We now go to Article 28, which deals with regulations - 'external regulations', rather - for research. With paragraph 1, what are you doing? Prolong, you say, for the fourth time - I have lost count, two by PPP, two by laws - the deadline for drawing up internal regulations and organisations of research centres. Then, two years after the resolution of No.4310/2014, you have not completed the procedures provided for, so that the country's research web may have internal regulations, on the basis of which regulations will be financed? Why this stirring? This stirring burrow probably or it suits you to give the funding as you wish, or you don't work there at the Ministry. Two years to make the regulations? One of them is happening. We now go to paragraph 2, which abolishes the establishment of five research centres, provided for by Law4310, namely the Research Centre of Western Greece, based in Patras, the Research Centre of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace, based in Komotini, the Centre of Business Innovation of Central Greece, the Institute of Optical and Vision, based in Heraklion Crete, and the Institute of Tourism Research, based in Rhodes. Here, Mr. Fotakis, commissioner, your hypocrisy has no precedent. It is mentioned in your explanatory statement - and you have reiterated it to the committee - that you are abolishing these five institutions, because their sustainability and the feasibility of establishing them have not been examined. I therefore invite you directly, Mr Fotakis, to present to the Greek citizens the report on the sustainability and feasibility of the ELIDEC, the institution for which you are commencing four months and which, of course, still does not exist today. Have you examined, Mr. Fotakis, his viability? Because, if I remember correctly, there is no provision for financing it after the end of the three-year period, apart from the EIB loan, and I remember very well that the SYRIZA rapporteur, the current Minister for Education, Mr Gavroglou, had pointed this out. That's what he said. We need to see how it will proceed after three years. So you understand why the five centres are being abolished because they are not sustainable. While how yours is sustainable, I imagine you'll explain it to us. In paragraph 8 of that article, we find yet another proof of bad planning and curiosity, as four months after the adoption of the relevant law, no body of the ELIFE has been set up so far. It is extended and this has gone from 31 January to 31 March. I told you in committee too, Mr Fotakis, to add a few more months. You won't be ready on 31 March. I guess because from the previous law you had the power to extend this extension. You're obviously not comfortable with prolongation. Let us end at paragraph 10 - and I end with this - which all of us in the New Democracy can feel a vindication, for the severe criticism we have had from parliament and for the advisability of establishing the ELIDEC, as within four months you come and confirm all our objections. There was virtually no reason to charge Greek taxpayers with the costs of establishing and operating a new public body. These functions could well and worthwhilely be implemented by the GDR. They are the same purposes as the ELIDEK. So you come now and say that the ELIDEK is under the GDR, which you designate as responsible. You did a piece of legislation, which I will see, and I hope I have the time to answer. So you understood wrongly your inability to implement the law you are voting for and you are rushing to correct it. Do for yourself some diffuse interpretation and you are now trying to get the SGU to pull the snake out of the hole. At least admit your mistake and stop lying. Up to press releases you have made and spoken about ELIDEK's notices, when we all know that the relevant notices are being launched by the GSP. I have tabled a relevant question to you, to which you have not answered me and which I am tabling in the Minutes. What can you tell me? That GET doesn't do it? GET makes the announcements. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Maria Antoniou, presents for the minutes the question referred for a preliminary ruling, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] To close, ladies and gentlemen of the government, what holds us is not the satisfaction of confirming our claims, but the grief of the way you legislate. The grief for your inability to accomplish nothing. Depression of the region and the abolition of research infrastructures, which would improve the comparative advantages of each region so that, in cooperation with local enterprises, they could contribute to our national economy. Greece, Minister, it's not just Athens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u216	Thank you, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u217	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u218	Response, you mean? It's not going to work that way, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u219	I wanted to say very quickly because all these issues have been raised since the debate on the ELIDEC. I'm not going to watch Mrs. Antonio in the way she's buying. I really can't watch her. But what I shall say is that I still have to say on a voluntary basis - to have a confusion around the ELIFE. ELIDEK is not a research centre. With regard to the five research centres - because this really concerns the regions - these five research centres with the mechanisms which have now been legislated, with the regional councils, with all the resources of these mechanisms, can make proposals either to become research centres or to provide services so that they can function as development agencies in each region. That's open.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u220	Has it been two years? Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u221	Now they've been voted on. We still have no regional councils. The Regional Councils for Research and Technology have only come from three regions. As for the delay in setting up the ELIDEC, I would inform you that the next Monday, 13 February, is the first general meeting and that the procedure for the election of the Scientific Council is in place, which will take place very soon, I hope, before 31 March, the functioning of the ELIDEC. That's why they're being created, I think, deliberately misunderstandings, of course, but what's going to happen...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u222	However, there is no way, Mr Ministers, that we should continue with this process, that is to say, to comment on and answer the position of colleagues. We don't finish in seven days.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u223	You, Mr President, protect the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u224	You are right, Mr Colleague, you simply know how difficult it is when the Bureau is interrupting colleagues. We simply need a relative understanding and understanding. If we respond to every position, we're lost. Mr Mitafidis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u225	Ladies and gentlemen, the Opposition, not all of it fortunately, has replaced the "After Christ" with "After SYRIZA". All suffering in this place begins with the takeover of the country's rule by SYRIZA. We are flattered, of course, because we have indeed become a point of reference. I would like to say to those who shoot us, particularly in the back, that they wish that the demands of the next few, but very important to the wintering Greek people made by our government, are not the same. I should like to say that, if you wish, not only for personal reasons, I do not know whether Mr Saridis is here, but also Mr Loverdos, to tell them that in the dark years of the dictatorship, in the barracks, we were, if you like, in the ideological war with the communes of the junta Antigone and the Epitaph of Pericles. These texts, like the texts of Enlightenment, belong to our tradition. So don't repeat these lies spread from different aspects. In a short time with the reform of the programs by the Institute of Education Policy and the "Epitaphi" of Pericles will return. I know they sound a little weird about what I'm telling you. It's okay. What can we do? It's all about history. I see Mr Javarra, who also represents liberal enlightenment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u226	Only liberal is enlightenment. There's no one else.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u227	You know what I'm saying. Because many of you have testified to us, I would like to ask you directly: do you continue to'reserve' the performance of citizenship in the children of the so-called 'foreign schools' who follow the Greek programme? You didn't give us any answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u228	We're in position. He called her.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u229	Do you have a seat? What's your position? Let's hear it here clearly. I am amazed, however, and I would like to say to you, because recently Mr Mitsotakis was a central speaker for the Holocaust event in Thessaloniki, that next month the course is taking place in Thessaloniki in memory of the first train to Auschwitz, on which the Prime Minister has been invited to lead. I am, of course, addressing the Minister for Education. We have a loose end, a debt, to give citizenship to the children of the Holocaust victims. Under the 2011 Kastanidis Act, certain restrictions had been imposed. Unfortunately, these people have left their great majority in life and cannot make the application, as the law intended. There's this loose end. I believe that, in the next few days, we must do so, restored and respected to history. Two words and I'll get off the Step. Mr. Saridis accused us of perpetuating the work hostage of school cleaners. Look at something. When we renew contracts, also applying judicial decisions, which say they cover standing and constant needs, you blame us for forming parties of EUR 325. I would like to tell you that this whole world is unpaid at the moment, due to the reactions of the Court of Auditors. But there is, you know, an amendment at the moment that has been agreed so that we can pay all these people. Is it unacceptable where the state is the boss, in the public sector, to have unpaid people, poor people, is it unacceptable, with various kinds of constitutional terrain - how can I say it differently? - who refinish the deaf and swallow the camel. Two things, ladies and gentlemen, because I know that people are waiting for them to be heard. With the Single Social Security Agency the walls fell, as you know, among the various categories of workers. We cannot distinguish sick leave, for example, between permanent and substitutes. The illness, as you know, doesn't follow the Staff Code. So we need to cure these issues, start implementing these so-called'single criteria of the law'. The other, because there is also an article in the bill - I think there is a process of the General Accounting Office of the State - the issue of graduation, particularly those who have served, for example, in private schools and are recruited as substitutes in public schools, there should be a similar wage development. So we need to take a step forward to tearing down all these inequalities. That is what the situation we are living in at the moment requires. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u230	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mrs Anna Karamanlis from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u231	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Colleague, Mr. Mitafidis, even Pericles, you went to fit in. Except you didn't explain to us what SYRIZA component it belonged to then.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u232	All of them!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u233	In any case, however, the country is sinking every day and more into the warp of instability and uncertainty following the well-known tactics of delays in negotiating the government with lenders. One day they say that the evaluation is being closed immediately, that people will not be ruined if they do not close in March and we do not make use of quantitative relaxation. So when the government does not have an integrated and structured plan for the most vital problem in the country, we cannot, of course, have such expectations and demands for the area of education. And unfortunately, the bill under discussion confirms that. You are supposed to bring a draft law that has as its core the Certificate of Language and the National Library. In fact, these issues are used as a vehicle to pass dozens of other provisions, without any consistency between them in your usual problematic legislative practice, provisions concerning fragments on every aspect of education and coming under urgency procedures without any prior consultation. In this bill, in fact, you developed your model and we have completely irrelevant among the paragraphs in the same article. Either by hand or by appropriate use, then, you legislate in a sloppy way and therefore ineffectively. With the exception of Chapters I and II, there are several points on which we object seriously and allow me to focus. I will begin with Article 11, which deals with the sensitive area of Special Education, in particular paragraph 1(b), which reflects the government's wrong philosophy. It shall exempt disabled or special educational needs from the teaching and examination of the second foreign language. Do you think that's how you offer them a better service? Do you take them away from knowledge, instead of offering them the right educational environment to learn more? These children, who generally have incredible skills, do not need less obligations. More opportunities are needed. I come to Article 16, where we have a reduction in the funding of the Medical Research Foundation. It is a Foundation of the Athens Academy with important and innovative research work, which has been extensively evaluated by external evaluators. What criteria do you decide on the one hand to reduce financing and on the other hand to reduce the amount of the reduction? In Article 17, you bring about a change in the composition and decision-making of the Professional Qualifications Recognition Council. Fortunately, our reaction forced you to accept the participation of the professional organisation concerned. Professional organisations know that they have an institutional and guaranteed role, and you cannot either bypass them or deceive them. With Article 18, you are setting up a body, the National Board of Education and Development of Human Resources. It is a body which replaces the National Education Council and which, having the same characteristics - very complex and complex - did not work. The Minister told the committee that his members will not be rewarded. I hope so, because the generosity you have shown as government in setting up new institutions and agencies is not free until now. The rosphetium fragrance is most strongly in Article 20, where primary and secondary education teachers are baptized university teachers. Evidently, teachers in schools are being spared and sent easily to tertiary education, and those with increased formal qualifications. The same applies to officials from universities who are given the opportunity to join the Special Technical Staff. However, the staff of the EIB category can also be included in the Occupational Teaching Personnel category. I imagine in the next bill you'll make all the teachers. Truly, is there any dubious design in all this, of course, beyond the obvious service, and the desperate vote? Have you studied what the needs of the educational institutions are in these positions? Have you predicted how to fill the gaps that will arise from the movements? Will a financial burden be caused? Article 20 reveals in the most glamorous way the aims of your policy and the criteria you are enacting. Article 28 is a typical example of hand-writing and lack of planning. It was only a few months ago when the government supported the establishment of the Hellenic Institute of Research and Innovation. He talked about an independent body in the standards of major research centres abroad. And the government is coming today, which, while it has not complied with any timetable for the establishment of the ELIDEC, puts it under the cover of the Secretariat-General for Research and Technology, which acquires all essential competence for its organisation and operation. We have told you since, that it was not even visible what the new body differs from the Secretariat-General for Research and Technology. On the contrary, it coincided with its institutional framework. Article 28 also abolishes the possibility of setting up five research centres in the Greek region. In fact, you are arguing as a basic argument that their feasibility and viability have not been examined. And you, invoke it, who have developed a zero utility industry without even bothering to consider these parameters. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, education must be a dominant part of our national development strategy. It's the main lever and the driving force that will pull the cart out of the mud and lead us out of crisis. Unfortunately, you also prove yourself in this area inferior to the circumstances and put the cubit down very low. You put in a first shot of arrangements and micro-services. But you know - you probably know it every day more and more - that these tricks are no longer moved and do not pay off, because they are the last spasm movements of a government before the collapse.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u234	Thank you, my colleague, and respect for time. Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy Mr Constantine Javarra has spoken for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u235	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will not fail, although I would like to start with the Minister, to refer to Mr Mitafidis, who, from this step just now, has given me a reason. I am pleased to note that the radical left recognises the value of the philosophical and political example of enlightenment and, of course, discovers the value of moral liberalism, because it is true that a lot of time has been lost. History took a long drive back to these findings. However, I shall disagree with him, because Antigoni, a colleague, is a column on which all Western civilization rests. That's why it doesn't belong to owners, ideologists, it doesn't belong to traditions. It is of universal value and importance, and at least, in the scope of its meanings, it includes us all. I would therefore like to say, Mr Minister, that we were expecting from you today - because you are a well-known spiritual man and an academic teacher - in your first contact with the legislative work, to bring to the National Representation a complete, artful, comprehensive and especially effective draft law. Instead, you brought us what the ancient Romans said, a lex satura. ‘Satura’ is a dish in which there are many different and unconnected dishes, such that no one can understand either beginning or ending or substance nor taste.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u236	It's a taste. And discreet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u237	It is flawless, because polygesia leads precisely to the neutralization of any tasteful color. So, Mr. Philie, you saw that we ended up in the same way, starting with different starting points.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u238	I'll accept that you know more than I do about flavors.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u239	From you, then, Minister, we expected you to bring us a real piece of legislation that would really meet the needs of Greek education, national education, as we once called it, because you have experience and knowledge and path to education. Nevertheless, you too, indirectly but clearly, admitted that you did not bring us great things. That is why the distribution of your speech was such that the three quarters would devote it to general promises and commitments about what you and the Prime Minister are going to do tomorrow and tomorrow. And what we are concerned with today is, unfortunately, that it has nothing to offer either education or education. But above all, I would like you to allow me to say this: and I am speaking with great respect and infinite appreciation. And you know that with me you can speak quietly and simply, even when the tone of my voice is acid, because I in my soul have no hatred for anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u240	I'll take it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u241	So listen. I say this because I have to say it for reasons of parliamentary order and morality. You undertook to bring in a regulation concerning the collection of Phoebe Anogianakis. First of all, you must know - and I believe you know - that this regulation goes without saying from you. Since it states that this collection of State-owned State-owned State-owned State-owned State-owned State-owned State-owned State-owned State-owned State-owned State-owned State-owned State-owned State-owned State-owned State-owned State-owned State-owned State-owned State-owned State-guaranteed State-owned State-owned State-owned State-owned State-owned State-owned State-owned State-owned State-owned State-owned State-owned State-owned State-owned State-owned State-owned State-owned State-owned State-owned enterprises had to have brought it. And not only that, but also with great respect, you will allow me to tell you that today I have been wronged, because you have advised me not to be exposed - I have raised this in committee and no one else - by saying that it is unconstitutional. First of all, I regret that the Scientific Committee of Parliament has not caught this pearl under Rule 32. I am also sorry that you said that anyone who speaks about issues, which should at least have the legislative initiative to know or to have been informed. Now be careful what inaccuracies there are. I won't lie. You said this collection came from a will. It doesn't come from a will, Minister. This collection is a lifelong donation. This covenant was not made in 1991 or in 2014. After all, should I tell you something else? He will complain, because he was also a man who wrote "HAY", he was your man.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u242	Like Pericles!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u243	No, like Pascal and Brookner! We read MARIE CLAIRE at the time. He's the Prime Minister's strategic designer who said it, and I'm obliged to report it. Note, however,: By 23-4-1978 Phoebe Anonymakis sent a letter to the then Minister of Culture a simple letter. On 29 May he received a letter of reply and says, in fact, that: "I want this collection to leave it to the state to become a museum for the benefit of the Ministry of Culture". The Minister for Culture accepts this specific proposal on 29 May 1978. There, then, it appears that Phoebe Anogianakis has long agreed on and on where it will be housed. And it's the real estate 1-3 in Plaka. It's the house of Lassani. I'll leave it for these minutes. If you want, I give them to you, because if you really do bring regulation, we don't react. Bring her in. It is enough, however, to have this legislative excellence, which must have a piece of legislation which employs the National Representation. After being addressed to the State, this particular collection and the library should also be accepted by the Minister of Finance. He represents the public. Indeed, on 29 June 1978, it was published and published in the Official Journal of the Government. So why are you telling us that this is a will and, secondly, that it is the property of the museum, which - and I will tell you, because they should have informed you - that with Mr.4305 he has ceased to exist as a legal person. I mean, he can't hold anything because he doesn't have any personality. Only natural or legal persons may have rights and obligations. So from this point of view, this particular amendment or regulation, or as you say it, is not correct. So, with great respect, I tell you that if you want to do something, do so within the framework of the provision of Article 109 of the Constitution, which prohibits the change of the donor's will in terms of all content and, above all, of the public, as it is here. He can't, in other words, go to university, because he can be public law, but he's another legal person. In that sense, I would like to end by pointing to you two - three things. First of all, a Minister does not make a good impression with your spiritual stature and with your experience to bring a provision, which he undertakes to oversee and approve the very great and serious work of the excursions. Can't school units handle such a thing? Do not bring us any further provision that you will be responsible for managing the students' free time during the break!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u244	Next!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u245	Congratulations! I also think that you cannot establish new institutions, such as the National Centre for Education and Labour Force - which, of course, we could adopt - because there is a need for the process of relevance, osmosis, the contact of people who get their diplomas or are studying at universities, the area of work and the market. But there, as a matter of fact, we see that the vast majority of the people involved are people who are directly or indirectly affected by the administration and the ministry. There's nothing that can be done about it!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u246	You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u247	If I'm wrong, I'll recognize it, Minister. Make sure I recognize it. Finally, with regard to this national dialogue that has begun on Mr. Friends, where we really are each Greek, especially in these critical times we are going through, these hours which prove to be how deep and wide the gaps in education are, which exist and because of which we have led to what we are experiencing as a disaster, I would like to say: I think that much better than me you know, apart from the economic problems, the causes of this disaster, this misery, this crisis, have references to education and culture. They have reports of stereotypes, behaviours, through a training that was not committed to anything but a degree in degrees, without professional content, and not a citizens who have a moral conscience, who have a judgment as citizens active and responsible. That is why we have now come to politically demobilized all ages from seventeen to twenty-five years old. So what did we do? Nothing! That is why we have waited for such an initiative, substantial, effective, in terms of content, with vision, with a view to hope, which would be a redesign of what we have not had for so many years. That is what I have to say and thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u248	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Panagiotis Mitarakis from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u249	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating another bill today - a broom with many and inaccurate provisions between them, with an urgent procedure, without any real need for it, without the possibility of consulting, which all my fellow Members will recognize is particularly necessary when discussing draft laws relating to national education. As long as you continue the same lawmaking practice, we will not get tired of pointing it out. At least break the emergency monotony now expected with the evaluation. Beyond the way in which the Minister has passed this legislation very quickly, this bill finds problems. Mostly, it is unaccountable for most of it, with the General Accounting Office of the State not being able to enlighten us about the implications of the bill. It is a good thing, ladies and gentlemen, what the Minister said, that a committee on higher education finances will be set up. But the results of these committees must be prerequisites for legislation, because this bill creates changes and therefore has economic implications. The bill lacks internal cohesion and introduces a number of photographic provisions and was filed without needs investigation and without an impact study. So any positive elements of the bill are lost within the range of unrelated and incoherent provisions. Even potentially positive provisions remain, for example, in Article 19, the institution of the academic scholar, who, however, is not accompanied by a provision of funding, only through the cash-pool of the institutions, when we all know that most institutions are facing serious financial problems. However, I am going to refer to Article 26 positively, which goes ahead with the establishment of the Department of Economic and Management of Tourism at the University of the Aegean. It is founded in Chios, where the School of Management is located, with the Departments of Business, Shipping and Engineering, Economy and Administration. On September 29, 2016, the University Senate itself requested the establishment of the Department in Chios, taking into account all the data. I make the relevant suggestion to the Senate. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Panagiotis Mitarakis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The Ministry today legislates by finally recognising the request of the university itself. I note that I had also tabled a petition to the Ministry of Education on 3 November, supporting the call of the Senate, but also the unanimous decision of the Chios Municipal Council, which I am also tabling. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Panagiotis Mitarakis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Through the new section we will have a production of specialized staff in the tourism sector. The graduates will be the new blood of the industry and will help improve our tourism product, which the country so needs. The Chinese society has embraced the project, as it has embraced the university in general. And let us not forget that the University of the Aegean has been evaluated among the top of the country by the Quality Assurance and Certification Authority in Higher Education. It is a result that comes as a culmination of the efforts and common work of the university community as a whole. They deserve congratulations! These positive results occur in a spirit of acts and omissions of the Government. It is still pending - the Minister mentioned - the establishment of the Foreign Language Department for Maritime Studies at the University of Chios, which is specifically provided for in Article 73 of Law No.4316/2014. In Chios there is already the Department of Maritime Studies and, as you know, Chios has always been a pioneer in Greek seagoing shipping. The establishment of this foreign-language department, which would only accept foreign students who would pay tuition fees, would also help the university's financial support and could - perhaps - also apply the institution of the academic scholar for Greek students, as provided for in Article 19 of the present. After two years, I think the government should make it clear what its attitude towards these foreign-language departments is, because the Minister's speech has not enlightened us. Also, outstanding is the fact that the graduates of the Department of Engineering, Economy and Administration of the University of the Aegean, although they belong to the category of engineers, do not have the possibility to register, thus depriving them of professional rights. It is another loose end that affects the university and needs to be addressed. I have tabled a relevant question to the relevant Minister for Infrastructure and Education and I am waiting for your position. I hope that the establishment of this section will be a catalyst for the development of tourism in the North Aegean, in an area that we all know is disproportionately affected by the very great migratory crisis. Of course, the establishment of the department alone is not enough. Improving basic infrastructure, such as the airport - for which we will be discussing a timely question Monday - is needed, such as the port, such as the authorisation of large investment pending in Chios since 2014, despite the fact that we went to the fast track when we were at the Ministry of Development. It is unduly delaying the use of public property, the "Xenia" of Chios, which we must also see. Finally, in order to stay within the time, I should like to point out that the government was not able to renew the special pilot scheme for visas - Schengen - on the Aegean islands, with a new major blow to tourism, depriving the islands of the opportunity to attract tourism from the neighbour, which is today the most important market for our islands because of the migratory crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, in this bill the government is taking a step forward and two back, because it does not have the design, the programme, the daring to give credible and definitive solutions. There's no vision and perspective. And above all, it cannot even apply what it itself votes on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u250	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Kontogeorgios from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u251	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin today's position on the Minister's point of view when he has taken the floor, who has degradedly said that we are wasting time from the opposition on the procedures and not, as he means, on the substance of the draft law which he has brought to the National Representation today. Minister, the procedures also matter because they are a matter of democracy. And you know that. Because if we go through the procedures imposed by parliament and respect for the institutions every time, you realise that we are taking the wrong path. And the turbulent road when it's used to, it won't be overcrowded again. In democracy too, it is good to observe the procedures and show our respect for institutions and parliamentarians. Therefore, your experience, as I said in committee, and your creation as a personality and as an academic teacher, had given us precedents for another legislative process on your part and respect for institutions. Sadly, you have denied us. I'm afraid so. And you bring a draft law today to the National Representation within three days and two days of the committee, of which if one excludes Chapters I and II, which actually have a formation, the other chapters and articles, which are the two-thirds in volume of the draft law, are - you will allow me to say - a package of arrangements. Chapters III and IV of the draft law remind me of an Easter bazaar of promises, ruses, photographic provisions that almost no one from the National Representation who took the floor failed to mention, not even by excluding my previous colleague Mr Mitarakis, who saw that within these arrangements - of course, it would also be strange not to point it out - his constituency, Chios, is satisfied with the establishment of the new school. The spirit of the draft law is not only an Oriental bazaar, it is "take world", "whoever saw the Lord". Schools here, schools there, schools beyond, because that's how the election audience works. And since we are in this process, Minister, I will not stop telling you about my own constituency. Do you have any more schools to build in Evrytania, too? So this is how we will see the legislation on education that is so serious and employing a critical period of our country?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u252	Well, now you know that better than I do.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u253	I know them very well, and you know them very well, Minister. The conclusion here of a reasonable man is that you are probably at the exit as government and that you are preventing what you are doing, which was said by the late Charilaos Florakis. But you must understand that our people are watching and especially at these critical times, they are drawing their conclusions on where everyone has classified the serious problems facing society, particularly in the field of education. However, I do not overlook the fact - so that I do not fully blame you - that there are also positive regulations and we must stress this. Chapters I and II, which cover the title of the draft law, have their inadequacy, are necessary and we too welcome them. But they only occupy three articles of the draft law and all the others, all the other provisions, hide the real face of your Government, curiosity, rospheological reference at all levels, photographic provisions, without dialogue, without costing, without public consultation. Because I don't want to expand and be general, I'm going to say three things in particular. Article 11 concerns special treatment. Previously, you made an observation to us, as if you were the first to discover the gunpowder! You discovered the special lawsuit in Greece! Minister, I'm sure there's the best. The enemy of good is the best. We must all seek to improve living conditions, especially in social groups such as people with disabilities, particularly in a sensitive area such as their education. It has an obligation for society to respond. In fact, we have not fallen from Mars in this Parliament. Some of us had other qualities. For example, I do not want to comment, but as the Prefect of my Region, I have taught three special schools, with great success I inform you and with the participation of local society to get the problem out of the house and get out. Of course, on this today you are due as Minister to give a further step forward. That's what you have to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u254	That's what we're doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u255	But I beg your pardon, Minister, but this is not achieved with number limits. It is achieved with a degree of sensitivity and with measures that are effective and not by numbers, i.e. with few limits to create special classes and special schools. Ladies and gentlemen, most of you in here are teachers and most of you know it from experience. You, Minister, are also a teacher. So I would like you to see this very sensitively. It does not stand up to the subject of special education and is not counted by numbers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u256	We agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u257	I shall conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by Article 20(2). It must be withdrawn, Minister, as it is photographic that the provision is made or that you should include all of what the previous laws laid down, so that you can also give a wider range so as not to feel wronged other charges, because here you are referring specifically to those appointed in 2016. It's photographic. The same applies to the paragraph of Article 4a. Here, of course, I can accept that you are serving the great boss. Perhaps the arrangements you had provided for in Article 33 of Law No.4386 were not enough - you understand what I mean - and you probably had to come back. So I'm closing up with something last, by addressing the Secretary of State for Education. We have taken note of you, Mr Secretary - and of the Ministry's political leadership, of course - of a problem which employs hundreds of workers at the Youth and Lifelong Learning Foundation. We have taken almost all the political groups in Parliament into account. It is a matter of concern to their families and it is a dramatic matter, because they have no legal basis for what the state demands from them. So please very much, if you cannot today include a legislative improvement in the relevant article in Article 17 of the draft law, then commit to the National Representation that you will deal with it directly. It concerns the survival of hundreds of workers' families at the Youth and Lifelong Learning Foundation. The chairman of the committee, Mr Sevastakis, the rapporteurs of all the parties that are here, the colleague who will now come to Stepa to speak from New Democracy, as are colleagues from PASOK, from the Independent Greeks, from Potami, etc. I would ask, at least, that we have an answer on this. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u258	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u259	We agree, Mr. Colleague. In a subsequent bill, we will expressly predict it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u260	My colleague from New Democracy, Mr Kelles, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u261	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft legislation under discussion on education in our country acquires an additional dimension after what we have read recently in "AGEAN" from the detailed writing of the government's strategic planning consultant. So there is more pressing need for all the political forces to unite at some point and to state clearly that we will design and implement an educational system that will remain stable to serve the educational orientation of the country so that the new generation that comes out of our schools does not rely on myths and perceptions that narrate the country's course. I shall refer to the bill as such. It is a draft ‘sweep’ law, which refers to the entire range of education and the title of which represents only six of the total of sixty-five articles. As far as the urgency procedure is concerned, I do not want to go far. All the rapporteurs of all the parties have spoken. No article is urgent, except for the two that have been mentioned, i.e. 13 and 10(7) and (8). But you have also known the deadlines there for a long time. So you're also there unjustified. Unfortunately, Minister, you have very quickly adopted ruthless parliamentary practices on the urgency procedure - the second time your Ministry's bill comes in this way - but also on the absence of public consultation and adequate costing. In addition, because of the many and independent arrangements between them, it does not contribute to solving the problems of education. It has no plan, no objectives, and it shows that the government has no education strategy in our country. Of course, this picture is similar to the picture you have presented and to the negotiation of the closure of the evaluation, where salt is present. First priority, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance says, is the closure of the evaluation. It's not urgent, says the Minister of State, Mr. Bernardakis. We're waiting for the end. Let me come to the bill articles now. In Article 1, Article 2 and Article 3, for the State Certificate of Language Learning there is no reference to disabled students who attend general and special education schools. Will it be the same exams or different? Articles 4 to 6 regarding the National Library of Greece are in the right direction. There is therefore no disagreement here. As far as special education and training is concerned, I would remind you that it is a self-evident obligation under the Constitution for disabled and special educational needs, as well as for their families. This obligation must not be exhausted to major areas of coordination and integration policy, which are left blank in letter, and in the worst case the institutions of decades, such as the accession departments, will be canceled by means of amendments. Also, there is no special treatment for micro-party games and syndicate logics, which SYRIZA was systematically engaged in. Reminding the war they fought against the NSRPs, ignoring that specifically the special treatment was financed exclusively by these programmes, with a number of credits that far exceeded the state funding of older years, especially in the fields of special treatment, which have been regulated by specific provisions of Law 3699/2008 and Law 4186/2013. In Article 11, we note the following. Why do you, Minister, amend to the worst relevant provisions of the above laws on the number of disabled children in one class by introducing more bureaucracy, such as, for example, the decision of the regional training director? Numbers shall be given without any scientific documentation. It is also unclear what types of disability the number of pupils in the class will be reduced. Regarding the certification of Braille, why, while an entire process was institutionalised, did you not go through it in the two years of your governance with the competent body, the EEAA, and now you are also forced to give certification to other bodies? For private parallel support, we as New Democracy had established its replacement by the private assistant to serve the student. And you come now that you've been hurling about the private person, and instead of abolishing or regulating the employment status of him, you're expanding the institution to the SEMEAs too, adding the CV and the copy of the criminal record. But that's what was before, you're not adding anything new. Why do you promote, Minister, the entry of a private person into public schools and close the eye on a black job by not regulating the employment status? Why are you jeopardising the employment status of Deputy Nurse P25 and Special Assistants PE1, generalizing the private institution? Why are you forcing poor Greek families to pay privately for their child who is in SEMEAs when the job is to be covered by public servants? How is the absence of affinity between the private and the student ensured? Of course you are in ideological confusion here. In the extremely sensitive area of special education, the Ministry, according to its friendly method, tries agarba, babbles, cuffs and without a global view of things to resolve some open issues. Can the budget be promoted from the educational interest, Minister of Education? Why, while the minimum number of pupils has been established for the operation of a special school and part of an integration section, enter the minimum number of pupils per section and a minimum number in exceptional cases, such as three pupils per section? This will create strong reactions and theme of the operation of entire classes in the special schools and especially in the islands and regions of the mainland. Also, in special professional high school, as in the SCA, we may have fewer than three students because of their integration into the laboratory specialty, which is not completed. So we need a great deal of sensitivity on special education issues and not just on budgetary grounds. In fact, you have stated, Minister, that concerns are unfounded from the introduction of a minimum number of special actions. Why are they unfounded? Because you're saying there's a tutorial. Where does this come from? If classes cannot be formed, due to the failure to complete the minimum number, will the first class with the second class, the third with the fourth grade or the corresponding grades together? And this is what you call'regional education' and 'equal access' to the good of education? With regard to the question of dismissal of pupils from examinations and ratings on specific courses at the parents' request, we agree, but we also agree that there should be the agreement of the CEDEFOP, which is the competent body. Finally, I would also like to raise a matter of top national importance, the issue of refills in general, but also, in particular, of luxuries, who themselves resist the demographic ageing of our nation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Why in the bill that we are discussing, can we not legislate on the permanent request concerning student relocations? It's something we owe them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u262	New Democracy has abolished this!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u263	The fact is that the multitudes were one of the biggest victims of the cuts made because of the memoranda. Article 19(11) could provide that multitudes or children of laundry who have achieved or are in colleges of HEIs or TEIs may be transferred to a corresponding school or department closest to their place of residence or where their brothers or sisters are studying. I do, however, have a positive view of what you said in committee, that you will see it positive and we will discuss it immediately with the establishment of a intergroup committee. In conclusion, I would like to stress that the draft law also contains positive provisions, which, unfortunately, we are unable to vote on, because most articles include many and irrelevant regulations among themselves. Why didn't you want to separate them so that the bill has the widest possible consensus? We will vote against the bill in principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u264	Parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Independence Mr Athanasios Theocharopoulos has spoken for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u265	Ladies and gentlemen, we are in a situation in the Greek economy which is very difficult. The evaluation has not been closed. "Have we burned," as the Minister of Finance said, Mr. Tsakalotos. Let me remind you that in spring, he said that if the evaluation hasn't been closed by October, we'll be burned. We have arrived in February and the measures have not been closed, what is required of the partners, are constantly growing. Let us say here - the Parliamentary Budget Office has said it and made it clear, for example - that in 2016, if the evaluation had been closed on time, there would have been no such measures on the table, measures that are constantly coming through an inefficient negotiation, as you do not understand in your illusions that, the further the negotiation goes, the harder it will be for our own country, as it is in a difficult negotiating position, as the funds are depriving them. We are in difficult developments. You must not go back to the reserve process by the funds, a process which has brought Greek society to an end. Since the dear Undersecretary of Education asks whether we need to sign them all, let you know that between two options, sign them all and lead the country to a dead end, there is also the choice of efficient negotiation, so that measures such as tax reductions cannot be applied, which cannot be accepted, like collective redundancies and changes in employment, which are being sought and which are outside the acquis communautaire. Negotiate effectively and close the evaluation in time, with a framework that will not be at the expense of our country. Because you understand that, when all the other issues we are discussing and all the other legislations and social policy issues, like this one, are in an overall context of economic and social insecurity, a framework is being created which cannot really solve the problems. So the problems and the crisis deepen. Unless you want to solve them at the Ministry of Education, as Mr Flamouraris is doing today. Because Mr. Flamouraris is setting up a website to solve the problems of everyday life. We can now send an email to a.flabouraris@parliament.gr. You can create a corresponding website, and the Minister of Education and the Minister of Health. If that's possible! This shows that the problems in our country are not dealt with in an institutional way by the competent agencies, with reforms such as the ADP and the JEPs and structural reforms. That's not how it's solved, with the ministers' e-mails. These are developments which show the inefficiency and inefficiency of the state mechanism. Of course, he needs seriousness and responsibility at last. To proceed with the specific draft legislation we are discussing today, I would like to say that it is another draft law in the urgency procedure, without, once again, a reason for that. It is not, of course, the first time that the government has surprised us about the way in which it deals with the legitimisation, the fragmentation of the provisions, we are voting for the logic and we are voting for it within a short period of time. There is a structural problem in education. Every Minister of Education, who is actually coming, wants to present his own educational programme. I'd say he even surprises his party. It is three Ministers for Education, if I am not mistaken, in this SYRIZA Government - ANEL these two years. That's not how it's done. No, there's no national understanding. We haven't reached that level. We are at the level that each Minister is simply presenting some ideas, leaving after a few months and again, without an overall framework for the country. That is what we have to deal with and decide that at last education is a national issue and we will not be able to escape from the crisis in the long term if at least on this issue we cannot come to an agreement. This bill today reintroduces provisions once condemned by the government. Now it updates them and presents them as a maximum and, of course, presents them as a matter of urgency, which is of course not and there is no strategic planning and planning. It is worth wondering that, while we all agree, at least seemingly, on the objective of upgrading education, limiting the exit of our country to new scientists, providing incentives for young researchers to stay, in the end you cannot have a strategy on this issue. In other words, an issue of fundamental importance to the country's exit from the crisis. You referred to your speech on the subject of pan-Hellenic examinations, that the only positive thing that has is objectivity. You know, first of all, this issue of changing courses from four to six, to eight and again six, four, is indeed an issue that does not always constitute reform of the pan-Hellenic examinations. But do not underestimate the issue of objectivity in the pan-Hellenic. I simply stress it because we have not achieved it in many systems in our country. Therefore, by commending, I would like to tell you that, by holding this, we need to see where we can get from now on, to see if we agree on a general framework that the place needs at the moment. I'd tell you the same thing about the SAAP. I don't know if you're going to move on. We have heard commitments, promises to an SAEP competition, we have so far heard too much, but to tell you that the examinations, through an AAP competition, were a process that was inconsistent and it is a process that you must continue with. I say this because I do not know what plans you have in relation to just one way of permanentisation of contractors and not, for example, examinations. We must not lose what we have in our own country, what we have achieved in these areas. So education, and today remains a commitment, lacks a real progressive reform framework. The draft law to be passed shows no vision, and the consultation was nonexistent. The other provisions, and I am talking about those which are an entire bill, do not also have urgency in many cases. For example, what is the urgent element in granting the collection of Greek popular musical instruments of the Museum of Greek Folk Art?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u266	He had an emergency.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u267	When he was filed, I mean. What is the urgency of amending the organic provisions of the IKY, the establishment of an publishing house at the Hellenic Open University? So when there is no urgency, there is inevitably a concern about what and who the provisions serve. We see, of course, that, as in the previous two bills, there are other dispersed positive provisions, but this does not undermine the fragmentation and absence of a strategy. When these positive provisions exist, we support them, such as, for example, we will support the issues of citizenship and other issues, which are also issues of a progressive nature, in relation to at least our own perspective, with which we see the issues of education. The first two chapters, which refer to the State Certificate of Language Learning and the National Library, are in the right direction, because the introduction of the electronic examination system and the improvement of the written examination system, as well as the regulation of issues relating to the modernisation of the National Library, constituted gaps that had to be covered. Here, of course, I have proposed a legislative improvement, which I think should be accepted, so that there are not actually two categories of members, with a different term of office, four and three years, but that there should be a transitional provision for some members, so that there would be the necessary rotation. At the same time, we have tabled two amendments to which you have not been placed if you accept them and on which we depend and our position in these articles. It is the amendment to the repetitive introductory examinations for students who have been absent or who have interrupted their examination for sickness purposes and the amendment to Article 14 in relation to the Municipal Education Department of the Democrat University of Thrace, which we propose to be responsible for the continuing training of the teachers of minority schools. We believe that these two amendments are perfectly reasonable and, as you said, in the context of the conciliation, that you are trying to achieve, I think you should accept them. Now for some other provisions, in my short time, I will tell you: some of them reflect the pathogens of education and some of them reflect both the government's ideological obsessions and tactics. As far as the single number of students is concerned, it is a positive provision. However, we must bear in mind and what the report of the Scientific Office of Parliament says, that it should be in compliance with the personal data protection legislation, taking into account the particularly sensitive age of the people concerned. I say it here to record. With regard to specific education and training issues, for which the Democratic Incorporation is particularly sensitive, the Schools of Music, which had not been included, also includes children with disabilities or special educational needs. We also do not understand the need for a separate Directorate for Private Education. It is not justified, above all, in terms of its own self-sufficiency. What exactly is it? Cut down the resources of the Foundation for Medical Research of the Academy of Athens.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u268	We're taking it to the old, 1,5.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u269	You're taking it to 1.5. So that's what you're going to do now. In any case, the evaluation should be preceded. With regard to the abolition of the National Education Council and the replacement - which has also been discussed - by the National Human Resources Education and Development Council, there are objections. We filed them. First of all, the ESY was a conquest that, after undermining it as a government, you canceled it in the first place, since this House did not only work, but was not even formed. We asked you, in November, to put it together so that there could be consultation on a number of issues. Now you're replacing it. We know the government's abstention in such institutions that it does not control or control. However, what you are now creating is more specific to the structure of the National Primary and Secondary Education Council, since the majority of its members are controlled by the political leadership of the Ministry of Education. It is worth wondering how, once this body is referring to the development of human resources, the Federation of Associations of Teachers and Research Personnel or the Federation of Special Personnel Associations and the ADED does not participate in its formation. As far as the Open University is concerned, it would be more appropriate for the Ministry to deal with improving the services provided, ensuring more accessible tuition fees, which at this juncture are expensive, and paying the training staff with the block, which remains unpaid, because the Financial Services do not know how to proceed for all those who have a block contract. Another indication of the alalum created by both your government's law and subsequent government's problematic arrangements, which are becoming even more problematic with these 'blocks' that you are currently going on, as everyone loses. They lose the workers, lose the entrepreneurs, lose the public. That's the reality. So the point is to solve these problems and not to plan the creation of a publishing house. What's the point of thinking, huh? Why not work with the National Documentation Centre? In your bill, too, you create new departments, new schools. I cannot help wondering what plan all these new sections are involved in here. What new scientific fields should there be? Of course we need schools and tourist levels. There is no doubt about that. We are not opposed to this. But do you have a plan? This issue has troubled the country - do not have this debate again - with the unregulated development of the TEI and IEI departments throughout the country, in the previous period. But you continue in a logic that we do not have a design. Such design needs, in detail, on this issue. As regards the retirement age at sixty-seven - and in relation to your regulation for those who have been born from September to December - of retired university students, we told you this: You are essentially creating two categories. Essentially some will go out to sixty - seven, and some will go out to sixty - eight. We have raised a question of justice, of not creating two categories of university pension, and that is what you have not answered. Finally, with regard to the issues raised in this bill, all this would require extensive consultation. Once again, then, we are faced with a rough and fragmented legislature with the urgency process, which in turn is inconsistent with the dialogue that you wanted to start and of course a bill in such a form has finally come. We have said so before that education requires a national understanding and a national strategy. We owe it to the new generation. Her future has already been largely promised, with all that is done in the general political scene and economic life of the place. Once we realize that, we will really be able to legislate properly, respecting the principles of the rule of law and good administration and, of course, giving young people what they really deserve: education that aims to be better people and to integrate them smoothly and with principles into the labour market; a labour market which must finally be created, as in the other countries of the European Union. It is really a pity that we have the inspiring material that can add value to the country and not just use it, but rather to maintain, broaden and create new pathogens. Education must at least be a national strategy for our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u270	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make an announcement. Parliamentary Second Thessaloniki of the New Democracy Mr. Savvas Anastasiades seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad. My colleague wants to go to Munich, Germany, from Friday, February 10th to Sunday, February 12th, in order to attend an event of the Greek community of Munich. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u271	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, I also have the honour to announce to the House the topical and urgent question report of Friday, 10 February 2017. A. PERSONS First Cycle Questions (Rule 129(2) and (3), Rule 130(2) and (3) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The 443/11/6-2-2017 topical question by the President of the Parliamentary Group Potami Stavros Theodorakis to the Prime Minister on corruption in Greece. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 453/7-2-2017 topical question by MP Corfu of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Fotinis Vakis to the Minister of Tourism on public tourism education in Corfu. 3. The question raised by Mr Spyridonos-Adonidos Georgiadis to the Minister of Finance regarding the "meeting of the Prime Minister with representatives of the investment bank Rothschild". 4. The Question No 452/6-2-2017 by Mr. Atticas of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Kasidiaris to the Minister of Finance, on the "Tsipras-investment bank Rothschild and the involvement of the Rothschild family in the economic life of Greece". 5. The question under number 451/6-2-2017 by MP II of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdus to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, concerning the parental equality and the conspiracy of children. 6. The Question No 456/7-2-2017 by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity concerning workers and self-employed persons with service permits. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 448/6-2-2017 by MP Drama of the New Democracy Mr Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the compensation of potato growers of the Lower Neuroscope in the Prefecture of Drama. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the major problems and unfair charges of high insurance contributions. 3. Mr Christos Katsotis, Member of the Communist Party of Greece, referred to the Minister of Home Affairs at number 457/7-2-2017, on the permanentisation of fire extinguishers five years of obligation. 4. The Question No 454/7-2-2017 by Independent MEP Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Economy and Development on the urgent need to regulate housing loans in a Swiss franc. 5. The Question No 345/16-1-2017, by MP, Athens, Nea Spyridonos - Adonidos Georgiadis to the Minister of Finance, concerning mismanagement issues in the Hellenic Defence Systems (ESA). 6. The Question No 344/16-1-2017 by MP II Athens, New Democracy, Catherine Papakostas - Ironropoulou, Minister for Health, concerning the discontent of citizens with EEAS and public health care. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The Question No 378/23-1-2017 by MP II Athens, New Democracy, Anna Karamanlis, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, about the temporary board of directors in Greek football. 8. Under No 420/31-1-2017, the timely question by MP Magnesia of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Panagiotis Iliopoulou to the Minister of Finance about ‘due public debts to private individuals’. 9. The Question No 414/30-1-2017 by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Finance about the state of the investment in the former airport of Greece. 10. The Question No 415/31-1-2017 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the deferral of the notices of the Agricultural Development Programme. 11. The question by No 348/16-1-2017 by MP Argolidas of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARMAR Mr.Ioannis Manatis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the resumption of the extension of the management plan for veto, which directly jeopardises the viability of the Greek seas. 12. The question by No 427/31-1-2017, by MP Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Stavros Tassos to the Minister of Health, about the inclusion of the Oncology - Haematological Unit of Daily Hospital in the Organization of the Mytilini Hospital. 13. Observations of the Court of Justice The 328/10-1-2017 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, about the education of refugees. 14. Observed. The Question No 409/30-1-2017 by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Finance about the sale of the "National Insurance". 15. The 382/23-1-2017 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Union of Centres Mr.Ioannis Saridis to the Minister of the Interior about the plan to weaken Macedonia's scourge and firepower. 16. Observations of the Committee of the Regions The question by number 400/27-1-2017 of the Z' Vice President of the Parliament and MP of the Athens I of Potamios Mr. Spyridonos Lykoudis to the Minister of Finance, concerning unexploited properties for which the public pays high rents. 17. The Question No 390/24-1-2017 by the Independent MEP, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of Health, concerning the reduction of expenditure in special education - "therapy". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The number 2117/100/19-12-2016 question and application for the submission of documents by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport concerning the delay in the completion of the project "Panamomomos - Eanthi". We continue the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs. Mr Tasoulus from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u272	Minister, the bill, which is your first legislative challenge in your new term, is obviously inferior to the circumstances and to what I have heard - and I have no reason to question it - is inferior to your qualifications. Circumstances dictate a change in attitude to education in the direction of brave corrections of a decades tradition that one might sum up as subjection to convenience. Education has been the first victim of the Transition and one summarises the reasons or parameters of this fall in education, in my opinion, in the mere narrative description of subjection to ease. Acknowledging the notion of 'false', in the name of so-called equality or in the name of not being saddened or feeling that they are wrong, was the biggest in my opinion of a populism, a demagogy, in a well-being, which was the main theme of post-population, and which, with variations, prevailed all the factions and so-called 'conservative' and the so-called 'left resignation', which ruled the country after the collapse of the dictatorship. There was a period during which the teachers were sent in circulars to correct not the student who made the mistake, but to correct the error, not to mention any psychological trauma the student suffered. All this - I repeat - a tendency to take good care of it, and all this introduction of depressing and almighty convenience has led to a reality that you described quite rightly, Minister. It has led to the so-called transgression of real education being fully absorbed, this sector has prevailed. But there is also a worse description of this unpleasant time-consuming situation, that we have accepted as normal the existence of misconduct. And the reason why children, physically, go to II and III, mainly high school, is why they will get the graduation there. There's no other reason. Those who were parents of children who were recently in public high school understand what I mean. It is therefore necessary to reverse this difficult course, which has been holding back from 1974 and gradually worsening, without any demonstration of the decline in education. No outburst, no one indignant came to protest against the degrading of education, because we have always had material priorities, both in the age of loathsome carnival and in the era of need and hardship. It is also the result of our education. While there is a great need to reverse this climate, it is not reversed. There was a good effort, in my opinion, from the time of the Samara government to return education to values that are not popular in the spirit of the convenience of post-multipleism, such as evaluation, difficulty, being distinguished, without being regarded as a misconduct or being considered a psychological trauma and all these horrors. But this has once again been overturned by the country's second left-wing government. Because you are the second left-wing government, the first left-wing government was PASOK in 1981. And we almost looked like that, but we weren't left, we just got into a complex that we weren't left. That was our difference. So let's come to today. The bill, as Mrs Kerameos quite rightly said, if you exclude minimum provisions such as the first ones, the first ones, for the State Certificate of Language or for the National Library, that is to say, what we would call "extremely blemished" and underestimate and undermine the same effort that you have started to dialogue about high school or the very effort that you find to be significant, namely trying to introduce financial control in education, at the same time as your bill finds a lack of financial valuation for the effects of the provisions you are voting for. Minister, it is worth these days, these hours, calling our ambassador to Rome and congratulating him for taking a proper initiative. In association with the Italian Ministry of Education has launched a competition in the high school of Rome on the subject of "Traveling with Aristotle" and recently, Visconti in Rome highlighted two students who chose a phrase by Aristotle and highlighted its topicality. "If there are any friends, if any, who live, they have all the other goods." This phrase was chosen by the students of the high school of Rome and they were awarded by the Greek Embassy. This return to the ancient Greek secretariat, this return to the well-intentioned difficulty we should also be publishing, not through our embassies abroad, but through the Ministry of Education inside. I am standing as a Member of the Ioannina in the provision of Article 27, Mr Minister - in this sense of the provisions which are unfair to both signatories and the circumstances - to demonstrate that the establishment of the Polytechnic School in Ioannina is a proof that certain things can be found in education, although they are delayed, have a well-intentioned follow-up. The University of Ioannina, which is one of the most important universities internationally and evidently and Greekly, had a School of Material Engineering, had a School of Computer Engineering and Computer Engineering and had an Architecture School, which is now in its second year. So he had three schools for engineers. There was a problem of professional rights in some children earlier and now and perhaps there was also in the future if the provision of Article 27 for the establishment of a Polytechnic School was not adopted. The Polytechnic School I would like to say that it does not, at a time of crisis and unemployment of engineers, creates a school of engineers, confirms the existence of three schools dealing with the orientation of this quality, restores professional rights and settles a twenty-year-old outstandingity and then with various successive PASOK governments - New Democracy and now SYRIZA settles a loose end. It is right that this founding of the Polytechnic School of Ioannina and for a reason not only that it has to do with economics or administrative settlement of outstanding issues, but it also has to do with the fact that the Epirus, which has suffered the "Kirki" of Hellenism, which is the xenon, through the benefactors, through the well-being and this process that is unprecedented in Epirus, has benefited Athens, the capital of the Greek state, with all these glamorous donations of education, because the capital of Epirus was in Turkish yoke at that time. The establishment of a Polytechnic School in Ioannina, further to the fact that it arranges a multi-year pending, recognizes the offer of continental affinity to education in Greece and is a form of reasonable return. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u273	Thank you, Mr. Tasoula. I would like to make a statement to this House. The Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics shall submit its reports to the Prosecutor's requests for permission to prosecute Members of Parliament. Mrs Olga Kefaloyannis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u274	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin with the point made by many colleagues in the opposition, that, unfortunately, you have chosen the urgency procedure in this draft law as well. I don't honor you. We have pointed this out to your Government many times, but you insist on repeating the same practice. It is an unacceptable tactic, which underestimates the functioning of the House, the exercise of the duties of Members of Parliament, and the way in which you understand the democracy that you face the citizens of the country. It is no coincidence, after all, that you have been backed up for some time now. As far as this draft law is concerned, this is a draft law - 'gut', as our rapporteur, Mrs Kerameau, rightly argued. It is a draft law on all three levels of education, on lifelong learning, on special education, on special courses, which requires special attention and which, unfortunately, is dealt with by fragmentary arrangements, and which, in many cases, are so vague that the Member is deprived of the right to vote even in the debate. It is a characteristic article 19, for higher education that coexist with no logic, among other things, topics such as the health care of students, the development of teachers, academic scholars and the concession of the Collection of Greek Musical Institutions of Phoeionianakis at the National Kapodistrian University, which I shall refer to in detail below, despite the fact that you have just withdrawn it. It is also really unacceptable that only two articles have been consulted before, and indeed those relating to the State Certificate of Language, for which there seems to be broad consensus in any case. Unfortunately, this is a piece of legislation that clearly shows that in the case of education you do not have a vision, you do not have a strategy, you have not studied and analysed the real needs and, as usual, you are clipping and deliberately serving your party and micropolitical goals. Obviously, you do not feel the need in this draft law to get into the realm of problems. Besides, in what policy field since the first day you've been running it to do it with education? Ladies and gentlemen, I would like you to allow me to refer to the subject of tourism studies. As Minister of Tourism, I should like to refer to this, because it is really unjustified serious attempts that have been made to stay untapped, that there is no institutional continuity, as you should, in what you could use for the benefit of the country. In particular, the need to upgrade human resources to tourism was our priority, which is why we paid particular attention to the creation of educational programmes at university level. As tourism was one of the most powerful economic and development arms for us, we created an official team of experts to assess the real needs in education. The result of this working group was, among other things, the promotion of the need to operate two or three sections of tourism in higher education institutions. Indeed, having faith and scientific documentation that we need to create schools of tourism in universities that would give young people opportunities in a dynamic sector, we have developed systematic cooperation and meetings with the Minister of Education. In these parallel meetings, it was agreed to establish university schools of tourism, to set up an English-speaking undergraduate tourism programme at the two universities, the Aegean in Rhodes and the University of Crete based in Rethymno, for foreign and Greek students, announced at a joint press conference of the Ministry of Tourism and the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs in November 2014. This initiative was particularly innovative because it enabled the Greek HEI for extroversion, with multiple positive effects not only on tourism but also on the wider economy. The Minister of Education, in fact, laid down the relevant rules in Law.4316/2014 according to which the courses would be taught in full in a foreign language. These sections have been decided to import exclusively foreign students who are not a member of the European Union and who are not a national of a Greek high school, while foreign students selected for a student will be financially involved in covering the operating costs of these programmes. Participation in the postgraduate curriculum of foreign students outside the European Union is allowed by a decision of jewelry, which will also carry out the relevant audit. The implementation of this possibility provided for the activation of each higher education institution, but above all - and here I would like you to pay attention to me, Mr Minister - the adoption of a Presidential Decree, which was never adopted, since a few days later the government changed and of course the new leadership of the Ministry was negative to the logic of extroversion. And as it seems from your current attitude, you do not want or cannot understand. Obviously, your government's internal needs are prioritised in the face of the country's real needs. Your need to degrade everything positive that our government has done is much greater than the urgent need for the country's progress. All these are fine letters for you. You don't want to understand it. You are firmly negative to every positive effort that has been done with effort and hard work before taking over power. But, of course, let us not forget, the authority for you takes precedence. Another issue I would like to refer to is the concession of the Museum of Greek Folk Art and Greek People's Organs of the Library and the Phoebe Anagogianakis Collection as well as the "Home of Lassani" in which it is housed at the National Kapodistrian University. Eventually, after many reactions, you withdrawn the provision subject to the condition that it might return to a bill by the Ministry of Culture. That is why I want to highlight a few things. You should know in your Government that, in order to better manage operational issues, according to the organization of the Ministry of Culture and Sport, you should have set up a scientific steering committee from specialized scientists. However, because of the frugality of the Ministry of Culture you left it unresolved. Turns out the head of the Ministry legislated at the foot and on the same day that signed the draft law of the Ministry of Education, the Minister of Culture sent the new organization of the Ministry, which predicts that the museum exists as a special regional agency of the Ministry, is housed in Plaka and this collection is also included with the library. Did the Minister for Culture know that or did the Minister for Culture not remember it when he agreed to their concession? Additionally, very importantly, the Minister of Culture as well as the Minister of Education ignored the fact that this arrangement is unconstitutional, as Phoivos Anoyianakis explicitly donated his personal collection to the Ministry of Culture. Consequently, the granting of his collection to the Ministry of Education infringed the provision of Article 109 of the Constitution, which prohibits the change in the donation content granted for a public purpose. Moreover, apart from the fact that you ignored all the above, you have not taken into account the bad economic situation in which the NRP has arrived and how, in fact, the university would financially support the museum, with what resources and what was the feasibility behind it. That is why I would like to say that you must be much more careful, take into account all the parameters before you legislate. It goes without saying that we are voting against these provisions. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u275	Thank you, Mr. Kefaliannis. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House and were toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", fifty one student and students and five teachers from the Gymnasium Peta Artas and Gymnasium of Nymnasium of Lefkada. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to inform you of the progress of the debate. Mrs Vaki, SYRIZA parliamentary spokesman, followed by Mr Andrianos, Mr Zabek, Mr Ahmet, Mr Fotilas. Then the State Secretary, Mr Baxvanakis, has asked for the floor, unless he wants another hour. Later? Good. Mrs Vaki has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u276	Thank you, Mr President. I'd like to make use of the time of my dentistry. I did not intend, ladies and gentlemen, to refer to the more general political developments, but on the occasion of what has been said and, in particular, of the parliamentary representative of the Democratic Integration Mr Theocharopoulos, allow me a comment. I would like to say that, unfortunately, the opposition sounds like a sound of lenders. You did not find yourself saying a single word about overcoming the budgetary targets, about the total failure of the International Monetary Fund in terms of its estimates for the Greek economy. You did not hear anything or read statements of important factors in the negotiation, which accept the Greek positions, not because they like the Greek Government, but because these positions are documented in the truth of the numbers. And let me also refer to a small passage, before entering the bill we are discussing, from the very recent letter from the Central Bank of Greece and the former Finance Minister of the New Democracy - PASOK, Mr Stournara, to the International Monetary Fund. So he says Mr Stournaras that the International Monetary Fund was responsible for the delays in the 2013 assessment, while it was unjustified to insist on additional parametric fiscal measures, even when it was more than clear that we are leading to over-performance of targets in relation to the primary surplus. That is what Mr Stournaras says on page 9 of the annex to the most famous report of Article 4 of the International Monetary Fund. So how did you resist? Did you resist the irrationalities of the International Monetary Fund? Colleagues, you signed them all and so many, as some of you say. Now are we going to have to do the same to find the opportunity for someone to silence your responsibilities for the passive attitude you have chosen with the lenders over the years? So be sure that we will not make the same mistake. The figures of the Greek economy are positive. There is a dynamic course of budgetary objectives and we are not going to accept and do back to any irrational requirement wherever it comes from. So we ask you, who appear to be sounding in the TV panels: do you want to close the evaluation with the country, but upright, yes or no? Unless you're committed to the IMF to voting on everything he asks for and so much. Yes or no? Let's give us an answer. And because a great deal of talk is being done about European Enlightenment too, the Voltaire has recently invented it. Let me tell you that a great philosopher of Enlightenment, Emmanuel Kad, had identified the correct use of the speech with its public use, with the principle of publicity. Except this principle of publicity isn't the propaganda pitfalls in the TV panels, but it's something else. It is also a fair consultation on the scope of the public sphere, but when it is subject to rules. Let us keep this as a reserve and as a parliamentary behaviour and not just. I will now go into the bill we are discussing, which includes, I would say to Mr Javarra, the votes of the Enlightenment. After all, the bills passed by this government on education - and I would also like to make a special reference to citizenship - are relied upon by the philosophy of Enlightenment and, above all, by the rights accorded to humans per se, to human rights and citizens. For the legacy of Enlightenment, perhaps, the New Democracy, which had not voted, as far as I remember, on many of the previous provisions, such as citizenship or the integration of refugees into schools. But let's look at them in turn. Therefore, this bill is governed by heterogeneous provisions, which seem to aim at restoring injustices, healing chronic injuries of all levels of education, and also covering legal gaps. However, this bill does not dictate only the urgent needs to ensure the proper functioning of the educational and academic community, but also the vision of a education of equality and quality, a democratic school which guarantees the dignity of the teacher and opens its door wide to the student without discrimination and exclusion, a school of excellence and openness. I am therefore starting with the strengthening of the National Language Certification System through the introduction of the electronic examination, which would be worthy of competing with foreign certification instruments, with low exams and anticipated preparation within the school, which would relieve the Greek family of the apathy. Because language learning is not a self-evident right, but it is expensive. The average Greek family spend 700 million each year in order to provide their children with a foreign language. Language, therefore, is done under everyone’s right and can be cured free of charge at the public school. However, this bill also cures the systematic cultivation of philanthropy through a national public libraries policy, which consists of a collaborative model of operation of public libraries with the flagship of the National Library of Greece, that is, the front of Greece's intellectual legacy and wealth. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the provisions of Article 4, which relate to the relocation of the National Library to its new home, to the Centre for Culture of Stavros Niarchos, do not concern a simple procedural relocation, but a re-establishment of the institution and a renovation, if you like, of the term 'library', which seeks to transform the library from a mausoleum of books to a meeting field, debates, to a focus of autonomous intellectual and cultural production. But, above all, he is keen to carry out the coordination centre with the public libraries, which are savage in the Greek province, being abandoned, abandoned, without technical equipment, infrastructure, institutional framework, without vision and inspiration, which are similar to paper cemeteries, sometimes unfamiliar, and whose fate lies with the place and the passion of certain illustrious minds, because the productive reconstruction of this place, the place where the lightning was made - to remember Solomos, which is today also the anniversary of his death - must be a contributor to the establishment of cultural and spiritual institutions that will revive the Greek region, in which sometimes the life limits of young people are a caffeine and uniquely inherited, unique channels of communication, the visionary of the natural information of the Greek region, but not the book, because it is not because it is pure and unbeliever. Ladies and gentlemen, this government, since the first few months it has taken over and in a suffocating financial framework and in fertile times, has managed to inspire and make certain values law. In the previous parliamentary period of 2015 and after endless debates of years and trenches of trenches, the Greek Parliament voted for the performance of Greek citizenship to children born in Greece, the first language they spoke was Greek, they played with our own children and they had horizons of life in our country. We did the self-evidently by breaking the stereotype of identity with the right of blood, a stereotype that gave birth to the greatest atrocities of the twentieth century, recalling that you are born and born and born. Citizenship is not a privilege, but a right. It is not the blood lines that give it, but isotope, isopoliticalism and dignity as the coordinates of a rule of law. So this bill likens the Greek schools that, although non-Greek, still the current, compulsory, Greek curriculum of teaching, addressing the Isocrates' saying, in which the most worthy of being called Greeks are those who participate in the daytime education rather than those who have Greek origins. The reason for this provision does not only heal the ambiguity of a provision of the Code of Greek citizenship, shielding him even more, but is also consistent with the vision of an open school, without social and racial exclusion, which embraced, welcoming the refugee people, dealing with a great new insurmountation, our right to have rights, a supply that has been unleashed by teachers and ten-year-old children from the neo-nazi invasion orders that divide people into legal and smugglers. Ladies and gentlemen, the vision of a democratic school, a school of equality and quality, is a thousand years old when it does not safeguard the dignity of the teacher and leaves him a raid of extortion. Because many have heard from the previous ones about how sloppy and bad we are legislating, that we have dismantled the education and so on, to remind Mr Arvanitopoulos, who has made the educator consumable and sacrificial in employers' arbitraty, has made his dignity abundant, completely deregulation of the framework of the operation of non-state education, making joint speculators with the co-incidents, i.e. the circumvention of the independence of teachers, the credibility of the awarded titles, the liberation of redundancies, which were done without any justification. The culmination of this course, of course, was the transfer of supervision of private education from the Ministry of Education to the Ministry of Labour. With this draft law, therefore, a separate Private Education Department is set up at the Ministry of Education, doing the self-evident and constitutional foundation of the establishment of the Greek State, restoring the responsibility of private schools in the state, restoring the elementary state supervision of the provision of a public good by private bodies, justifying redundancies by institutions, establishing a regulatory framework for private education that guarantees the accountability of those who are affected by the good of education. Of course, at the same time, within this bill, the pre-service of primary and secondary education teachers in the private sector is recognized, because in the past, a friendly slogan "first the student", we respond "first the teacher". Because the education she deserves her name, and she deserves her name as something that she has no honor, is not kind of marketable and exchangeable but self-declaration, presupposes something that she also has no honor and that is the teacher's dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u277	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Ioannis Andrianos of the New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u278	Mr President, I ask for the floor for a minute on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u279	What's the staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u280	I have referred to my name, Mrs Maij-Weggen, falsifying what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u281	He mentioned your name. But it's not...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u282	He falsified something I said and it was specific. I said specific things.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u283	In any case, it is not the issue of one minute, but Mrs Vaki did not say anything offensive.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u284	Give me a minute and you'll understand it's personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u285	Here you go, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u286	The SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman said in my words, saying attributes that it is "the sound of lenders". Look, that's too much. We say from Parliament's Step that you must not accept absurd measures in labour, such as collective redundancies and the lock out and the reduction of tax. Finally, to negotiate effectively, as you have not been doing all the last time. Close the evaluation with an effective negotiation, as it was called upon to do, and the House Budget Office in 2016, as I said, without these new measures. It goes a great deal in your previous negotiations, in fact, to accept the complaints and requests of the lenders - both for the excess for a century and for the wage and pension cut - in response to all the demands of the lenders, and to come here today, while legislating in this way, to move the finger in the opposition. So I told you - why you asked - not accept these unacceptable measures. Close the evaluation with an effective negotiation. Because you're asking me to tell you that the restriction of group redundancies had not been lifted in the previous period. That is what we invite you to do today. Finally, because you ask 'what do you want to do?', I answer you: Or close the evaluation without these unacceptable measures or leave. There's no other solution for the place right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u287	Mr Ioannis Andrianos of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u288	I'm sorry, Mr. President, is Mr. Theocharopoulos asking for elections?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u289	What do you want, Mr. Philly?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u290	Mr. Theoharopoulos, are you asking for elections? You said we should go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u291	There are other solutions, Mr. Philly.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u292	But now, are we having this conversation? Mr. Philly, please. Mr Andriane, start your speech because there will now be a philosophical and philosophical debate on the elections. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u293	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are actually discussing today a multi-brand plan for education, as well as the two - supposedly central issues, the State Certificate of Language and the issues relating to the National Library of Greece, have added provisions concerning all three levels of education, research, lifelong learning and special education. There are two major procedural problems from the outset. All colleagues have mentioned this. On the one hand, you did not convince us, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, of your choice to bring this bill under the urgency procedure. After all, as the Minister himself admitted to the Commission, only two regulations are urgent. Equally, both the absence of effective consultation, except for the two articles concerning the State Certificate of Language, and the content of some of the individual provisions - heterogeneous provisions, the Parliamentary Representative said a moment ago - show at best handness and worst feasibility. It is a pity that this bill could reach a broad consensus, especially since we are talking about education, an area that primarily requires consultation between the political forces and the long-term strategy. We look positively at both the regulations for the State Certificate of Language Learning and those concerning the National Library, which we are of course voting on, and some other positive ones, which we are voting on. In the first theme, therefore, it is important that the state enables students, but also to older Greeks and Greeks to certify with credibility and low cost the knowledge of foreign languages. On the second subject, the National Library, I think we are all proud that this flagship institution for our education and culture is finally entering a new era. I would, of course, like to take this opportunity to thank the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, which offered the Greek society this jewelry. Now, with the delivery of the facilities in the state we take a huge bet in total: to prove that the Greek state - and I deliberately do not limit the issue to the respective government, Minister - is capable of successfully managing, with respect and effectiveness of this important infrastructure. In other words, we must disprove all those who visit this new library building and the Lyric scene now say "we must delight it now, because with whom the state will take it, it will devastate". It is therefore a pity, ladies and gentlemen, that, with the majority responsibility, we do not have the opportunity today to discuss these two top issues in a spirit of consensus. Unfortunately, however, the bill has major problems. Firstly, it is largely unspeakable. It is characteristic that in the relevant report of the General Accounting Office of the State, inability to assess the costs is stated, as the required data are not available. This sketchyness undermines the work of the committee being set up for its financial education, to which it has consented and which has sent technocrats and the New Democracy, the committee which will announce, as you said a moment ago, Minister, the Prime Minister tomorrow. Secondly, there are revolts that reveal the lack of a single strategy. It is characteristic that Article 19(1) re-establishes arrangements adopted in August 2016 by your Government and abolished again by SYRIZA - ANEL Government. A similar problem exists with the arrangements for the organization and operation of the Hellenic Institute for Research and Innovation, with which you are effectively abolishing its autonomy only three months after its establishment. Now, you said you were correcting this provision. So let us see this legislative improvement, the correction, as you said from the Step of the House. As far as special education is concerned, there is a lack of real care for pupils with learning difficulties. It is not just a question of not harming them - that is, the objective, which arises from the principles of Article 11(l)(b) - but also of acquiring in the appropriate educational environment knowledge and skills in the context of the constitutional obligation of the State. As far as the conditions laid down in Article 20 for transfers to posts of specialised educational staff and specialist training staff are concerned, our objections remain to the fact that the real needs have not been investigated, no impact study has been carried out at the other levels of education, where gaps will be created, and no cost has been given. Besides, I believe, Minister - and you agree - that all levels need training qualifications. Of course, the lowest grades also need teachers of increased skills and qualifications, because, as you have said, they are the basis for the next grades. So you did not tell us in the debate on the draft law in the committee why the arrangements in Article 20(2) relate to the seventy people, as you said. There are protests and documents sent to us by others, who are obviously in this case, who have been appointed in 2007 and who ask why this date of 2016 was chosen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u294	It's deleted.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u295	I'm glad. Will you obviously share it with us?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u296	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u297	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u298	Now they've brought them to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u299	Now we hear it, Minister. I, when I went up to Stepma, hadn't heard of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u300	But I'm not telling you...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u301	Good. I say that positively, too. You will, therefore, allow me to refer separately to the burning issue of apprenticeship, which is affected by the bill. The broad application of an apprenticeship scheme for graduates of PSA, TEK and IEK was established, as you know, in 2013 with L.4186/2013. Article 14 of the same law provided for the adoption of a joint ministerial decision determining the remuneration of apprentices from national or Community resources and the financial contribution of employers. In fact, in order to pay the rewards to the apprentices, the necessary funding has been provided by the NRV for the period 2014-2020. By law 4336/2015, it was determined that in 2016-2017 apprenticeships will be offered for all CVT and IEC students and for one third of those PSAs. In addition, the aim was to ensure greater participation of employers and greater use of private funding. The Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, with a delay of about six months, begins the procedures for the operation of the apprenticeship class of the PES graduates, while it has not yet cleared the method for the implementation of the apprenticeship in IEKs. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need one more minute, Mr. President. The most worrying thing, however, is not delays and delays in relation to quantitative objectives, but the fact that you are only choosing to implement apprenticeships to public sector bodies. So - we believe - we weaken the fundamental aim of the institution, which is to link vocational education with the real economy, to create sustainable employment and, ultimately, to strengthen growth. In addition, the Ministry has not activated the regional public partnerships with the private sector, as provided for in Law.4336/2015, while Article 66 of Law.4386/2016 abolished the provision of Law.4186/2013, according to which the apprenticeship programme includes additional incentives to recruit the apprentice at the end of the apprenticeship. After that, we have already submitted together with colleagues in the educational sector a question and we expect, well-meaningly, to hear the answer to this question. We are clear, Minister. The apprenticeship must be linked to the real needs of society and provide essential facilities for apprentices for a later career. It is therefore essential for the private sector to be involved in the form of apprenticeships and, of course, incentives for the recruitment of apprentices by the company, given the need to link vocational training with employment. And, of course, this whole framework must be under strict control of school-learning staff. So I think it is wrong to confine apprenticeship to the public. And it is a double mistake if apprenticeship works as a trade of hope for the restoration of young people to the public, a prospect that we all know well how feasible it is. In conclusion, I should like to address an issue which identifies any reformist effort in education, with whatever features and orientation the political leadership in question wants.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u302	Mr. Comrade, we're at nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u303	Immediately, Mr President. But I must mention it, because no one has spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u304	You're right, but it's another thirty colleagues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u305	I respect that, Mr President. I am referring to this because I recently visited the 1st Korydallos Opportunities School and there, Mr Ministers, I found the most important work done by three teachers. We have eighty students and, unfortunately, one teacher became deputy director in IEK and left in the middle of the school year. Another assistant director came in his place and, finally, we have two teachers, eighty students and two volunteers, who are retired teachers offering their services. We have disabled people and the elevator doesn't work because they don't have a specific code. The building is not municipal, so that the municipality can repair it or operate the building. Conditions are very bad and I invite you to see them, Minister, and to solve the problem. Because time's up...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u306	It's been over for three minutes already.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u307	Mr President, thank you for your tolerance. I think the point was useful.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u308	Very interesting, but let's try and be in time, okay? Mr Hussein Zabeck of SYRIZA has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u309	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the issues of education are concerned with the country's political life every day. Education and education are the pillar that shapes our society. This draft law mainly regulates procedural matters, but they have their own value and put our own project. For example, the State Certificate of Language Learning, which has been working successfully over the years and is a recognised degree with the responsibility of the state, is an alternative to all those who do not receive a foreign language degree from the institutions of the universities in Greece. The effort being made to upgrade it through electronic examinations and cost reductions solves problems of an economic nature to cover all the students' social groups. As far as special education regulations are concerned, I should first of all like to say that, for the first time this year, twenty-three new special education schools were set up and twelve new lyric classes were set up in special professional schools, and over ten thousand teachers were recruited to serve the structures of special education and parallel support. So the government promotes the integration of all children into special education units. Special education is a priority for the Ministry of Education, and that seems to be comparing data from previous governments. The introduction of the single number of students is identified and monitored in school years with a view to reducing school leakage. School leakage is a chronic problem of education, a problem that we are seeing in Thrace as well. With the aim of introducing 12-year-old compulsory education, school leakage is a great blow to our region and a great obstacle to the educational upgrading of our country. Finally, I would like to refer to Article 14, which concerns the establishment of the Minority Education Sector at the Aristotle University's Education Department, which operates informally since 2012. If we look at the history of education, of teachers in minority schools, the abolition of the Thessaloniki Special Pedagogical Academy with Law 3966 has satisfied a chronic demand of the minority and the community as a whole. The PSC, set up by the junta regime, generally provided low-quality education, did not respond to modern educational needs and did not guarantee equal working rights for its graduates in relation to other academic schools. Under the responsibility of the previous government, the problem was perpetuated and chosen by the solution of the Teacher of Educational Minority Program with No.4310. Teaching was a stimulus for teachers, after providing further training for two years, namely those intended to teach in minority schools, they had to study for six years and without guaranteeing their language competence. Obviously, teaching did not meet the needs of educational staff, nor did it meet the requirements of minority education. However, the establishment of the Minority Education Sector is part of the education of teachers of the Minority Schools and is a consistent demand for the minority for high-level university education of teachers who will be run by the educational programmes of the Minority Schools. We believe that the provision of a general education degree and not of a specific limited-value degree is an important step in the upgrading of minority education, but also ensures the linguistic and cognitive adequacy of teachers in Greek and Turkish. On the other hand, according to the explanatory statement, the University of Democratisation undertakes, both for the same degrees as for the training and support of teachers in both programmes of minority schools. As regards the PASOK amendment, it is therefore up to the Democritus University of Thrace to present the relevant report to the Ministry of Education. Our main concern is the upgrading of minority education and through the proper training of teachers, who will have all the necessary knowledge of teaching, but will be well aware of both languages. Of course, the problems of minority education are many, but the Minority Education Sector is an opportunity to change it and improve it, to create an education without the distortions and inclinations of politics, insofar as equality and equality are concerned. With respect to rights, we see the improvement of minority education both in Greek and Turkish-language programmes at public-school levels. For us bilingualism is wealth and the excellent knowledge of both languages helps in the smooth integration of minority into society as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, our educational system is changing and improving to provide upgraded education. The establishment of the institution of the full-day school, the direct recruitment of teachers from the beginning of the school year, the recognition of the success of our students in the Olympic Games of Robotics, in which the 1st Xanthi Lyceum is also a small but important step in this direction. Finally, to keep in mind that improvements to education must not be afraid of them, because by building a better education, we are building the future of our children and the future of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u310	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and operated, thirty students and students and three educational attendants from the Elementary School of Kato Korakiana Corfu. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Ilhan Ahmet has the floor from the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u311	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in discussing today's education bill clearly as a man from the minority, I should first like to refer to Article 14 on minority education. First, however, I would like to point out this: first of all, I am pleased that the government, although it had voted against No.4310/2014 - and indeed what it had not said in Parliament! - today it recognises the great reform that has been carried out - with whatever mistakes it had, which I will mention next - and recognises this law as a basis for minority education and comes with Article 14 to amend, add, create a section of Turkish studies. First of all, this is a good thing, Minister. There is no doubt at all that the teaching did not provide the necessary guarantees. That is what my colleague said. But I would like to ask you a few questions, and I would like some clarification from you, in order to clarify the matter a little bit. First of all, we need to understand what the philosophy of n.4310 was. Who was she? First of all, the minority teacher will finish a university - going to any choice across Greece - will get a general teacher's directional degree and then, since he has now been scientifically established and wants to follow the path of minority education, he will be able to do a special training, a special retraining - we will see where and under what conditions - so that he can go. In other words, Article 67(4), which also applies to the amendment you have brought - you have not lifted it - says that the minority teacher will, if he wishes, be able to rank on both lists for appointment. If he wants to be appointed to Larissa, for example, in general municipal education, but if he follows the process of teaching, he can also be part of minority education. In other words, he has a right to choose. The question is: is this possible today, by this article, Minister, being abolished? I want you to make that clear to us. So, the person who now chooses to go to the Minority Programme Education Department, when he graduates, will be intended to be appointed only there? If that's the case, then we have a regression. Then we remove a trade union right from the university graduate, so that this double possibility does not exist, that the teacher does not have the possibility of general education. That is the question we have to ask. Secondly, we have tabled an amendment as Democratic Institution. I was, of course, pleased to hear from Mr SYRIZA, who said that they too consent to this training of teachers. However, it is not a question of wishing and wishing, but of legislating to get flesh and bone. We propose that you accept our amendment so that it can also be done in the law of the state. Now, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say two things about minority education in general. First of all, what is minority education? Minority education is a right of choice, ladies and gentlemen. In other words, the minority parent, as long as these schools exist, chooses to send his child to the minority school. So what should we do as a state? We must respect this particularity and strengthen the institution of minority education. That's what Mr.4310 did, and that's what you're trying to do. But there are many gaps in it. [[Mr DIMITRIOS KRIMASTINOS]] On the occasion, Minister, I would like to refer to this issue of the mergers and abolition of schools, without the necessary consent of school tax, since it is a minority school and since we must respect the parent's choice of sending his child to the minority school. If he wants to send it to the public, there's no problem. However, since there are ten people who want to send them, we must respect it and strengthen it. So the merger and the abolition cannot be carried out without the unanimous decision of the school remit. Another issue which I would like to raise on this occasion is the issue of pre-school education which has been a great deal of concern to us. What are we looking for now? The child - either chooses to go to a minority or to a general public school - in any case should learn Greek, ladies and gentlemen. If he doesn't know the greek kid, he can't progress. But to learn, better Greek, we have to give him this possibility from the kindergarten. How can we give him this possibility? All scientific studies say that with existing kindergartens graduated from our own universities and abroad, at existing public kindergartens, we can simply, in the sense of positive discrimination, enable them to appoint our teachers and kindergartens to these public kindergartens so that, based on their mother tongue, they can also help them learn better Greek in order to be useful citizens. Unfortunately, leaving the house, they do not know the Greek language at all. A child, a three-year-old child, how will he learn the Greek language and have the first contact with education, if we do not give him this opportunity, taking advantage of our already existing nursery teachers who are graduates of our country? So, Minister, I would like you to accept this amendment and legislate it. Of course, there is a time at N.4310 for this, but I think it is good to be the law of the state, so that we too can vote in favour of this initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u312	Thank you. Mr Fotilles, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u313	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, your understanding of education and of the functioning of Parliament in general is reflected in this bill. It really goes beyond any fantasy the ways you are working to legislate. First of all, you chose to bring it in with the urgent procedure. The urgency, however, concerns only two, three provisions, which you could well have gone through with one amendment. But you didn't do that. You added another dozen articles, with a total of seventy other provisions which are also the main body of the bill. In fact, you have put them in such a way that we cannot vote differently in those articles, since they involve both sound and unacceptable regulations, such as Article 19 and 20. In Article 23, with the transfer of powers you are doing, you are basically taking the power from the elected institution of the Open University and giving it to your own appointed members of the administration. You're really amazing! You have the most old-fashioned and at the same time cobblestone legacy logic. And alas - as is done every time in the last few months - the same model of depreciating the effective involvement of education institutions in dialogue. Only two of the thirty-five articles preceded public consultation, the State Certificate of Language Learning and the National Library. For the rest of the articles - photographically some of them, as our special speaker, Mrs Keramos, explained in detail - there was not even a minute's consultation. So in the words, Mr Gavroglou, it is supposedly a broad dialogue and understanding on the sensitive area of education. However, what to expect from a government when the Prime Minister himself gave the signal of how he dealt with the answer he gave after six whole days to a simple and specific question - without any insinuation - that was made to him by the Vice President of the New Democracy: "Give us the flight plan and the passenger list." And instead of a clear answer, Maximo issued a non paper that was a lump of infrastructural, from which the following emerged: The Prime Minister made a secret trip to Paris, during which he had a private meeting with a representative or representative of a well-known investment bank where they discussed the debt issue. Now, how can the meeting be of a private nature, but the question of being a public debt, I do not understand. Privately, in my opinion, it's a meeting where someone finds a banker maybe to open an account or I don't know what else. However, public debt is certainly a national issue and not a private one. At the same time, the non paper reported to the bank, calling it an official consultant. But, as it emerged, there is no contract in question. He is therefore not an official consultant. So he lied about Maximus. Why is that? We don't know. We can only speculate. In fact, Mr Kammenos - I do not see a representative from the ANELs here - what is his view that his co-pilot meets secretly with international loan sharks who win by betting on the country's destruction? These are not my words, they are Mr Kammenos. This is another piece of shit on the altar of power. Besides, she's not the first one, and she sure won't be the last one either. But, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tsipras' prime travel, secretly or manifestly, ends whenever it is officially from the Greek people who, by vote, will end the nightmare that lives in these two years of governance SYRIZA - ANEL. As for attempting to divert, that is to say, the kining operation of a relative of the President of the New Democracy, it merely proves the stress and panic of the rulers that leads them to this moral decline. Swinging, though, if you think you'll get away with the mud. Of course, could we expect something better than a government whose lie has become first and foremost nature? Yes, it is the same government that assured us with the Prime Minister that we will close the review by 5 December, because otherwise we were burned, as Mr Chakalotos said. We entered February, the evaluation has not been closed, but furthermore it is more than certain that the Greek people will not only burn, but will plunge themselves from the measures that you will bring for duty-free and insurance when you close. Look for desperate ways to forge new extermination measures. The so-called negotiations that you are making lead to the well-known result, namely the ruthless retreat and the harsh measures - and indeed the most extreme cycles of our creditors - precisely because you cannot implement the necessary reforms. Only a new government, with a clear reform programme, can reach a better agreement now and exit the crisis in a short time. In addition, your perception of the place is reflected in the words of the other stateless State Secretary for Education, Mr. Zourari, of this picturesque hobbyist who after unexploited: "It's no big deal if the Turks take us any island", now comes and tells us with an raw vulgarity: "For after 2019, take what you like. There will be Greece after 2019;’; That's who you are, and you're not embarrassed at all. There's no honesty. None of you reported this incredible statement from your State Secretary. Do you know why? Because it's true. Your plans arrive until 2019 that typically ends the government's mandate and concern only your stay in power. Even the unspeakable Mr. Paulakis confesss, "After two years of government, we still have no real power". I wonder what that means. Does he mean he regrets that there are still judges who resist and you can't control them? You drive things into installing a total dictatorship in the country? So far, and don't move! Elections now, redemption for the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u314	The Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u315	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u316	Do you want to make legislative arrangements?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u317	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u318	The Minister wants to make some legislative amendments. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u319	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u320	Minister, will you also tell us about the amendments? Will you tell us what you're accepting?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u321	Yes, I will talk about the amendments and legislative improvements. For the rest, I'll argue at the end of the meeting. I'm going to put forward legislative improvements, which are all thirteen. It has been taken into account, I think, almost all of the comments made by the opposition parties. We have some amendments. There is an amendment from Mrs Megalo-Economist, which we cannot accept, because it is the participation of students in the institutions of the Open University. There is a more general issue of how students are represented. There's a club, obviously. But it matters, because it will change. We are in a process for something that we will also bring to the normal debate in the Committee on Formatic Affairs, on the structure of the Open University, which has been operating for twenty years, and we have had a huge experience in the meantime, which I also said in the Committee on Education. We think it makes no sense now to accept this amendment. There are several amendments tabled by the JRC. In one of the JRC's amendments signed by Mr Delis, Mr Synthrakis, Mr Tassos, a problem that exists, which is the translations, is stifled in the air because categories are added, new criteria are added, etc. Or the subject of the relocations and you of the JRC will accept that we need to resolve it somewhat rationally - with social criteria, of course, but rationally - or otherwise we will have the problems with those parts which do not do so. Because this morning I also answered a question you about TEIs and it has to do with it, to say that I will call on the president of TEIs tomorrow - that is what I am consulted by the Ministry's legal services - to get orders to tell the presidents to register the children in the departments, otherwise there will be disciplinary consequences for the non-registration. There is another amendment from the JRC, which, in my opinion, does not mean to say that it is unacceptable - I think it undermines a pedagogical climate in the examinations - that is, the candidates for access to higher education have the right to safeguard the ratings of courses in the whole of Greece. This right potentially extends to more than one examination. So I'm going through the physics class this year, I'm not going through the rest of the time, I'm keeping physics and time I'm giving the rest. That's what I understand. This makes me impression that the JRC is tabling it, because it is in favour of the financially fragile groups of the population. Because I can go to school every year to have a good lesson, I give all my strength to one, and I'll carry that grade until I get into college. Pedagogics are not serious. The determination of the date of the intra-school examinations shall be notified only in September, i.e. at the beginning of each school year. It is an amendment of the JRC. It doesn't make any sense to be in law. It's right. It must be in the beginning. This year we did not say it at first, because there were other kinds of artificial problems. It's right, but I don't think it should be put in such detail in law. So it can't be accepted. You have another amendment, which is not accepted. The amendment seeks to abolish the wording of paragraph 4c. etc. The explanatory statement states: "Specific pedagogical intervention in all the manifestations of its work is a demanding and complex procedure. On the basis of the existing legislative framework and in the context of the management of excess training staff, the latter shall be placed without qualifications in specific training.’ You know that this is not right too, because we are indeed placing people on lists as permanent teachers. We place them, when seven hundred unqualified alternate teachers have already been recruited, in order not to stay without the support of pupils with special educational needs. So it is one thing that we do and we do not understand why this amendment is being tabled. There is an amendment from the river, which we are accepting. I am referring to the second one you have tabled - the first one has withdrawn - and it concerns the movement of teachers from Athina and Thessaloniki, that is, within the county, of this movement. And if we want it from regional to regional I.E., it won't be ten years, but seven. These are reasonable requests and we think they can be accepted. Now, with regard to Amendment No 912/101 tabled by PASOK, which concerns the Education Department of the Democritus University of Thrace, in order to have this responsibility for the continuing training of educational and minority schools, it was analysed sufficiently by Mr Hussein Zebeck. We have no problem, and we accept that provided that the university wants to do so. There can't be a request from the university. I've been sent by the dean by the district presidents, I think the senator. So on the basis of what Mr Zabeck said, we can accept this amendment. You have also tabled another amendment and I want the problem to be clear about it. So this has to do with the repetitive examinations of children ill during the examinations. There's a little problem here. There are indeed children who get sick. But there are also children who take advantage of this possibility. It's not that simple. Last year there were repetitive tests for all classes. The number was huge! And in many of these lessons no one showed up! Now you will tell me 'with the dry matter burning and the fresh'. You're absolutely right. But you know what? What you are saying here also has another small educational problem, which is as follows: you say to be considered only in the courses in which they got sick. You understand what I'm talking about, I'm not talking about children who are honestly ill. Why am I saying all this? Because there's also a matter of legal, isotope, beyond the technique, in July, etc. I would therefore say, in my opinion, that it is very impossible. Let us say that the subject of the repetitive examinations is a problem that needs to be resolved, with the certificates you say from hospitals, because it is obviously necessary to protect those who really need it. Technically he presents a very serious problem. I therefore propose that there should be an intergroup committee that will solve this problem, because as it is, I insist that it is impossible and pedagogical and legal. But on the basis of your proposal to do so, I will otherwise reject it and it is a pity to reject it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u322	I would like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u323	If the Minister agrees.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u324	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u325	With the Minister's permission, if at the end of the day the following is added: "with ministerial decision, the terms and conditions for the application of this article are laid down by the Minister of Education" and you are going to turn out above what you consider unnecessary and add this underneath, and I think it will be complete. ‘A ministerial decision of the Minister for Education shall lay down the conditions, conditions and modalities for the application of this Article’.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u326	I will tell you that extinguishing and putting it another amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u327	Legislative improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u328	All right, let's see her by the end of the meeting, if you want. So he's being rejected now as it is. Let's do it at the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u329	I have the impression that with regard to the reasons for illness you mentioned, i.e. if the child is treated in a public hospital and has attested that he could not come to the examination because he suffered from this disease and could not come, I think you can accept it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u330	Mr President, you are right. In fact, in order to be fair, the conditions for finding the disease posed by the amendment are right, there is no problem in that. The question is the technical problem, because look, we need to have tests for all lessons. So basically all July.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u331	With a ministerial decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u332	The ministerial decision is easy, because you're throwing it over you, so I'm talking about a intergroup committee. We keep it until the end of the meeting we find a...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u333	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u334	Mr. Constantopoulos, wait a minute. The Minister must finish and if you want me to give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u335	Also, one last amendment that is ministerial, but I think we discussed it the other day in...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u336	It's embedded.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u337	The ministerial has been incorporated, so thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u338	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u339	Please, for a minute, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u340	Mr Minister, since you are committed to bringing forward a proposal by the end of the debate, there is no problem. Otherwise, there will be a legislative improvement. Or one or the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u341	Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr Hadjisavvas, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u342	Thank you, Mr President. I have just learned another lesson about how the government works in its thinking, that is to say, because some children lie that they got sick, there is no child to give repetitively. Some children because they can or cannot join the specific classes of special treatment, we legislate about everything else. The title of the bill in itself is ashes in the eyes, because it says: "State Certificate of Language". It seems to be a bill that is indifferent, two-thirds of the MPs did not even come to Parliament today. The main thing, however, is that within this bill he passes the appointment of teachers of the Muslim minority of Thrace, extends to all schools that have a Greek programme - not Greek - and the distribution of citizenship, changes everything in special education, and New Democracy protests about the musical instruments of Anogynakis that gave them a gift. Maybe he has his gravity, too, but for all the rest I told you, I didn't hear you say anything. What are the professional and working rights of teachers in a bill from the Ministry of Education, I cannot understand. Maybe they're right, too. I will not judge whether or not they have. What are they doing in a education bill? What are the trade unions doing when many of them only referred to their rights, only to what they ask and said that I don't know if they're fair or unfair? Apart from one or two paragraphs in the bill, nothing else was urgent and not only in my opinion. And most participating entities said the same. Before, of course, another Minister, Mr Kontonis, said that four months of public consultation, and there is no need for many committees to have a lot of debate, we are dealing with them there. There is no public consultation in this bill. We don't have anything. You only pulled out for the State Language Certificate some conversations on the Internet and no other body was asked. Of course, to some who said you didn't invite them, you told them to be patient about another bill, then call them to give their opinion. For the State Certificate of Language Learning, therefore, there are problems in checking, as well as in the procedures of private certificates. The electronic way of examination is positive. We see him positively, but we put a question on whether it works properly. We see what is going on in the last two days in the way the social benefits demands are made. A great deal of attention should be paid to personal data, and I believe that it will also be given by the judicial authorities that have made some decisions, since they know very well which ideological people will sit and see what each student is doing at school, what lessons he is taking, whether he is going to thematic weeks or not. It might be right, but it's definitely inside too. As far as the National Library goes to the "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation, there are many different instruments. To charge for photocopies and anything else, I get it. He says somewhere that in some places he'll need a ticket. It should be clarified in which areas a ticket will be needed and why a ticket will be needed to get in. For the Open University, the authorities expressed concern that the time limits you set are not applicable, they cannot do so and that you degrade the educational work and services provided by decision to start departments, without having been recruited by educational staff. They feel they will not be able to serve these purposes. On the subject of special treatment, everyone but us, institutions, opposition, all parties, teachers and parents agreed that they are not in the right direction. The only ones who disagree and say they're in the right place are you and you legislate. In parallel support there is no necessary flexibility. A lot of surrogates went. I have received many e-mails and many phones that say they went to cover some posts, but they stopped, they got licensed, they found several pretexts because of the workload they met there. They couldn't handle it. It's very difficult to work this, even if it's one by one, and you're saying now it'll work some parts that will be one and plus four. In other words, someone thinks about it, he says 'all four people, all right'. If it's a hundred, it's 4%. If you go to five, that's plus four, it's 300% increase.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u343	It's 350%.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u344	Okay, 350%. In many cases this combination of four or five is important. Not everyone has the same problem, not everyone has the same approach to the problem they have. Many expressed the view that the needs of education and safety for children will not be met, because some are with autism problems, some with dyslexia problems, some with a distraction. I agree that the second foreign language should not be counted on rating. But you should know that these children are in trouble with their first foreign language. It is not easy for them to learn a foreign language. They are faced with problems even in learning the Greek language, reading and writing. So let them judge which children can watch foreign languages and whether they are counted on their scores. You have not responded and I cannot understand why private people are not required to have membership. Why can't people with disabilities teach in art schools and are excluded? Isn't that a discrimination against them? All this goes to second degree, as Mr. Paulakis came with the cutter in the costs, the therapies and all that one will say, 'that's good and ensures parents'. Yes, it may be good and it may seem that it will ensure parents, but they will not find any therapists to cooperate. Only large centres will be able to operate under the conditions laid down by the government. So once again, those who suffer the consequences will be parents and students. Very important were the reports of the Polytecic Confederacy, which said that a hundred and four thousand are the difference in the balance of deaths and births, in favor of deaths of course. A town like Veria and Kosani says, it's actually the deficit. What's the point of legislating for national education if we don't have children? What is the point of solving the problems of education if, with the infertility we have, there will be no students to study in these schools? They also complained that they were not invited by the Minister to ask questions concerning them, and the Minister said that this bill came very quickly, "we didn't have time to do anything, do patience with the others." Doing endurance for what things? They have a subject, for example, for the relocations. And TEIs and TEIs had stated that they did not cause any problems for the relocations of children of luxurious families. But you left this out. Besides, there aren't many luxuries left. We told the trade unions that most wanted some things their own, professionally, working and the Minister says to them "it is very difficult what you ask, because I tell you to make suggestions. You'll see that there's always one and the other. There are always conflicting interests." And who told you, Minister, that you must serve these conflicting interests and you must not make divisions? So you need to serve both sides, because both sides are voting? On the subject of the article on the facilities offered to the Muslim minority in Thrace, I wanted to say that these issues are just a few minutes and I do not need to go into detail. The hug of Thrace Muslims must be a national strategy. In other words, we must make them feel that they are Greek, because many of them have Greek national consciences and do not push them across. However, the imposition of extremism with this obsession in the Turkish language, when we have many Pomacians shouting "we barely learn Turkish", why does it exist? You're doing exactly the opposite. Such problems exist both in Kilkis and in Edessa with the slavophones. Why are you following this policy? What is it? Is it a response to the good policy taken by the Turks? Do the Turks follow a good policy toward the Greeks who are there or to the Christians? Regarding the extension of citizenship, not only from the Greek schools, but also from all the schools that follow the Greek programme, I do not understand what that means. So it's gonna be some private school? Will there be any NGOs who will set up schools? Would it not be only those who were born in Greece that were later and would also be extended to those who temporarily entered some schools, since, you say, they are now in Greece, let them join our schools one, two, three, four years? Will these refugees, the illegal immigrants for us who go and attend these schools, also have the right to take Greek citizenship? Is this change so great that it is presented as a small, four-line change? These are the problems facing the bill. But the government is also faced with another problem as to what ANELs will eventually do. Their representative spoke and said they would vote against this article in the bill, but the chairman from the Chair said that "this is his opinion" and they would finally vote for it. You know what I think? That it's still an application of the good and evil that the government is doing. You are trying to serve this dual situation, such as an amendment brought by this people's memorial fighter, Mitafidis, and it almost dissolved the conflict, so that you withdraw the amendment that had been tabled - and you did well - and you are now trying to serve the same purpose again. If, in other words, the New Democracy voted, the ANLL would play heroes and they wouldn't vote. Now that the New Democracy does not vote, however, the ANELs will vote. This has now become so obvious that it becomes ridiculous. However, there are new measures of two and a half billion that will be burdened by Greek society. There will be neither tax-free nor tax-free nor anything, so that our children can go to these schools and schools that you legislate, the Greek family cannot send them to study. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Where is the Prime Minister not to say that he will not take a single euro! There's been a meeting with the Rotschilds in Paris, that is, more systemic you can no longer be. He's going to Ukraine. Does the visit to Ukraine not have anything to do with the Roschild meeting - the great enemies Roschild and Putin? There is a reference made by officials from all countries, including the United States of America, to the dismantling of Skopje, and we are non-profit-making. There are reports of the dismantling of the European Union and that there cannot be national political and national independence through the Memorandums and under the lenders and we there, the same purpose. There is a committee with the Irish to come and cry, because they will necessarily follow England at the exit from the European Union, and instead of saying that they did, 'you should be happy, all countries should normally follow, although we do not hope that it will be done for Greece' - we have said that the latter will, after Germany, leave the European Union - we also have the Minister to say for the next few weeks. It says that the presence in the thematic weeks is compulsory, and even those who oppose it must be careful, because it says they will join the camp of those who do not want to join. So who? Those who react? The ones who say no to these measures here? They don't want, he says, to discuss those who react to issues that are about rehab, gambling and gender relations. That's not it. They don't want to sit down on their children to learn not about the relationship between the sexes, but about entering a new sex in these relationships. Two sexes become thirteen, fourteen. There is a whole list in the European Parliament that some want to apply and keep this list with fourteen, fifteen, guards differently. Uh, we're not going to follow that. And not only do the'reactive' follow those who join the Golden Dawn camp - because only the Golden Dawn reacts. OLEME's reacting. He says here, Mr Papachristos of OLEME, 'fearers for NGOs and party organisations in schools in the context of information'. She's afraid that party seaters and NGOs will come into school to learn. We're not afraid. We know that will definitely be the case. Ideally seated by SYRIZA will, to serve your ideologies, and incapablely rewarded NGO humanists.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u345	Thank you. Mr Vlassis, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor for seven minutes, followed by Mr Koukodemos. Here you go, Mr. Vlassi.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u346	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the feeling that today it is of greater value to stand by the way in which you bring this draft law to plenary than to deepen the details of its articles. And I think we should stand up to this because it is not just an indication, but a clear demonstration of how you are dealing with flaming issues, which you are calling on to manage, i.e. roughly and without programming. As an emergency, you are bringing a draft law with thirty-five articles and over seventy regulations, and you too are aware that the arrangements for which time really is pressing are not more than three. What do you do with that? To cancel the public consultation of all the regulations, not to allow the parties involved, but also to all Greek citizens to place themselves publicly on matters that concern them directly. You, the left-wing government of social sensitivity, are the one who deprives the citizens of their right to take part in this process. Why do we accept that you did not have time to bring urgent provisions to the House earlier, such as those regulating the submission of applications for participation in the pan-Hellenic examinations or transfers of teachers, even though the deadlines have been known for too long, why so rush for all other provisions, especially when only two of the thirty-five articles have passed through public consultation? What exactly is going on? Do you not want to hear the views of the public, or are you not interested in them as illiterates? Looking at the draft law by Article we are positive to several of the proposed regulations, such as those for the State Certificate of Language Learning or for public libraries. The same applies to the National School of Public Health, which we all know of its great contribution to health finances, but with the footnote, that we in the New Democracy are consistently supporting open procedures in the field of university development, much more so when we talk about universities that are going to be the first time. We agree with the academic scholars, with another footnote: do not talk about state money, we are talking about academic scholars who can be paid from private resources. However, there are many regulations which are probably handy and in no way demonstrate a long-term strategic planning. You tend, during the legislative process, to be fragmented and experimented, which does not solve problems and costs time and money. How else can you explain that by Article 19(1) you are reintroducing regulations that were adopted in August 2016 to be repealed in October? I ask you: why are we called on to vote on regulations, which are most unreported when the setting-up of a committee to deal with the finances of education and for which you have received a consensus from the opposition parties has even begun? While we are all aware of the gaps and shortcomings in primary and secondary education, you are insisting that regulations such as the one under Article 20(4) allow permanent teachers of primary and secondary education to be transferred to posts of specialised educational staff from universities and TEIs. Have you considered any loopholes that will be created in schools? I don't think so. Obviously not, because you don't care. All you care about is creating universities overnight. Much could be discussed and many improvements could be made, but under no circumstances would you be in the mood to give us the time to do so. It is a pity, you know, because in your view you do not have a sterile opposition that rejects without second thought any proposal from you. The New Democracy has proved in practice that it has supported those initiatives that were really in the right direction and will continue to do so, because we, unlike you at a time when you were in the opposition, put the interest of the country above micro-political purposes. However, when you do not even give us the time to study and work out the bills, when you bring out any plans and texts that are torn apart and unrelated to each other, do not expect us to close our eyes and follow you, do not expect us to support photographic provisions and personal arrangements, such as that of Article 20(2), which our rapporteur mentioned earlier. I would like to close by returning to what I mentioned at the beginning of my speech. Urgent is not today's draft law, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and ANEL. It is urgent to close the second assessment, so that the country is not faced with a new memorandum. My personal assessment is, of course, that the evaluation will be closed, because you are prepared, you are willing to meet all the demands of our partners in order to remain in power. This delay is simply increasingly burdening the Greek people. It is urgent to listen to the ordinary Greek citizen, who has now been on the streets demonstrating indignation and despair. Emergency is to stop Greece taking steps backwards. In the last two years you have invested in various things, so that you can first hold the vote of the Greeks and then remain in power. You invested in anger and in indignation. You've invested in empty promises and fantastic enemies. You have invested in splitting, lying, but also the fatigue of a afflicted society. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The only ones you did not invest were those that would really help the country to get out of this endless crisis and finally stand on its feet. You didn't invest in the truth and the hard work. It is not today's bill, ladies and gentlemen. It is urgent to answer to us and the Greek people if you can exercise the responsible governance of this country. It is urgent that you finally assume your responsibilities, because, as you well know, there are no deadlocks in democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u347	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u348	And a solution to the problem will be given by the popular verdict that will relieve you of the work you are unable to carry out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u349	Thank you, too. Mr. Konstantinos Koukodemos has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u350	I don't know how, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Metarakis persuaded you to take the school to Chios. I don't know what charm he used to achieve this, but I want one in Pieria, because we, too, are with most hotels and most rooms all over Greece. So in the next bill, consider that I'm going to be at the Ministry to ask for it, too. Ladies and gentlemen, this government's philosophy of bringing a bill again into practice is well known. But here, we are not just talking about an urgent bill. Here we are talking about a bill - broom of the Ministry of Education, which touches all three levels of education and lifelong learning and special education. We are talking, in other words, about a bill concerning the vast majority of the school community. And the text of the bill consists of - I don't know exactly how many - about thirty-six articles, Minister, and only one of them includes seventeen paragraphs regulating disparate issues between them. In other words, we have an urgent bill with thirty-five, thirty-six articles - and you do not know - which in fact is at least seventy and which relates to all levels of education. To mention that it started with thirty - two articles and became thirty - six. This, of course, does not need to be commented on. We don't have to say anything more. Those who are following us are aware of how substantial a debate can take place in such an urgent process, about the changes, the injustices or the consequences of some of these arrangements. I'll add to the above one more clue. The public consultation of the thirty-six articles, which preceded, was held for only two articles, the title of the bill, the State Certificate of Language and the National Library. Ladies and gentlemen, these were the reasons why we have spoken of Parliament's implication on the part of the Ministry, as well as the fact that it includes fragmentary arrangements, without having precedented everything that is necessary, namely consultation, impact study, consequences, real needs, implementation conditions and much more. Proof of what I am referring to is the dozens of memos tabled by all the bodies affected by the provisions of this bill. Memorandums and comments or amendments requested by these bodies come from the first day of the debate on the bill to this time when we are invited to vote. Invite the urgency, because you have the pressure of time due to the pan-Hellenics, as you say, and there should be arrangements before the date of submission of applications for participation by the candidates in February. Also invoke the urgency because applications for transfer of teachers must be made in February. I know what I went through from the ministry. But it is not, Minister, for dates unknown. These are not urgent dates. You've known them for a long time. You knew that there was going to be a problem with these timetables, and yet, in spite of this, you are coming with an urgent bill, pushing the House to vote, so as not to upset - as you say - the students as well as teachers. So what kind of practice is this? And if we want to believe that it was really pressing over the past few months and you were unable to do so in time, bring in the urgency procedure only these two provisions and not the other arrangements that you know are not urgent, so that we too can put forward substantial proposals, dialogue and solutions to any issues. You realise that this cannot be regarded as an essential parliamentary procedure. To come to the essence of the legislation and to stand on one point. We see that a committee is set up to study the educational finances, a committee which we do not know how much it will be paid for and the same General Accounting Office in the State cannot assess its financial costs. I should like not to mention the provisions on EITs, the research provisions, the changes to the procedure proposed for school excursions and a little - as a colleague has said here - and the breaks to be made by students. I don't understand what you want to do. Ladies and gentlemen, in order not to bore you, this is a rough, fragmented bill. Nothing more, nothing less. And, unfortunately, this bill concerns education, Minister, which you are not paying any attention to at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u351	Thank you, Mr. Kukodimo. The Parliamentary Representative for the River, Mr Amyras, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u352	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, and dear Minister, I will begin my position with this parliamentary dizzy that has taken you. I mean the Government, SYRIZA and ANEL and the Bureau of Parliament in part. We do not yet know whether or not the SYRIZA co-pilots, the ANELs, will vote for Article 29 on Greek citizenship at the end of the day.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u353	Yes, they did.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u354	Did they say yes, Mr. Friend? Then Mr. Kourakis said they'd finally say no. And he told us to look after us. Mr Katsikis said he would vote against it. Then Mr. Kourakis said that the ANELs would finally vote. Finally, Mr. Philly, can you make it easier for us to learn how your co-pilots are placed on this subject? This government dizzy that holds them has been shown by the committee as well. In the debate in the committee, when the vote on this article was held, the ANELs said they would vote against it again. It went through the vote to come to plenary and vote or vote against, thanks to the river vote. Mr. Mavrosh saved Article 29. What did Article 29 say? Article 29 is for Greek citizenship. It's an amendment to the code. The words "in Greek" were added to the words "or to a school following the compulsory Greek curriculum of education and teaching". We are in favour of this and we are proud of it. And you know why we're proud? I say this mainly to the Members of the SYRIZA and the Ministers. I'll show you. We are proud to see Antetokounbo holding the Greek flag. We are proud to see this child who has Greek education, who went to Greek school to love Greece as his true homeland. We are proud to lift the flag to NBA, to America, where it stands and where it is found. The ANELs are not proud. So you're gonna have to tell us what you're going to do. Is that how you're going? With that kind of co-pilot? Dancing you in the baking pan, when it comes to difficult issues, and when it's about the baking pins and the audience flying-- supposedly fires and the rest of you sitting silent? And since I have just caught what international events I would like to make a comment on the Prime Minister's far-reaching journey and his private meeting with the administration of 'L' OREAL'. I shall, however, go to this issue through the complaint box, which Mr Flamouraris has electronically opened. For those who do not know, since today anyone who has complaints from the government can send an e-mail to a.flabouraris@parliament.gr. I sent him, gave him Mr. Flambury's bike today, sent him an e-mail, and I made him a chef. I write to him: 'Dear Minister, why do we pay up to seven times the cost of 'L'OREAL' products in Greece than in the rest of Europe? I would also like to add the relevant documentation. Assessed by Giorgos Amyras." I'm filing it. [[At this point, the Member, George Amyras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I'll show you the documentation now to understand what I mean. After going where the Prime Minister went and spoke to the President of L'OREAL - a man, a woman, I don't even know who he is - he didn't say to him, for example, 'Re, a man do you want to invest in Greece', supposedly 'why are you slaughtering us?' Why is the same product - a deodorant I show you at random -, in Germany, a deodorant of 'L'OREAL' costs EUR 1.55, in England £1.30, or about EUR 2, and in Greece, ladies and gentlemen, the same product costs EUR 9.80? Not even 9.80, but from 9.80 euros. We pay seven times more expensive 'L'OREAL' products in Greece than in the rest of Europe.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u355	Is that Tsipras' fault?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u356	Where are the government's gentlemen, Minister, who would hit the monopolies, market-consensuals, the marked papers? You haven't done anything. You've left them all unconscious. I am tabling this, too, for the documentation I sent to Mr Flamouraris with this price imbalance at the expense of Greek consumers. Also, I'm filing the photo of Antetokounbo with his brother with the Greek flag at NBA. [[At this point, the Member, George Amyras, presents for the Minutes the above document and the above photograph, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The rest of the issues now. I really don't know who advises the Prime Minister on international matters, that's incomprehensible. As soon as yesterday we heard the Minister of State, Mr. Christoforos Vernardakis, saying 'Is it a secondary issue or an integration of the country into the programme of quantitative relaxation' and that 'if we lose in March, will the world not be lost'? He may not be lost, but the merchants will be lost jobs, the shopkeepers will be lost, people will be lost and dunes that Mr Vernardakis does not imagine. Because, as you know, the banks do not exist, they are simply their labels. Financing the real economy does not exist. And thanks to these Vernardakis type statements, the most famous spreads of Greek bonds have reached over 8%. This is the uncertainty you have caused and signed your own signature, a tziphras from here to the Constitution. Finally, explain to us, ladies and gentlemen, is the government in a hurry to close the evaluation or not? Has it implemented 90% of its obligations, as Mr Tsakalots assured us in December, or finally 1/3, as he said in the letter of commitment to the memorandum? Tell us something. Also, is the Prime Minister's statement that he is not going to take - and I am really sorry to laugh, why are we talking about the Prime Minister, but he said so - not 1 euro meters more? The third memorial, why did you sign it? Silence. That silence tells everything. Have you doubled the unemployment benefit time, as the Prime Minister told us? Unless it's done and you keep it secret, because you're also discreet people! Within these 12 months the country and the financial staff of the pelagic road, but the association of forces has changed radically. We are, unfortunately, starting to enter the electoral cycle of the Netherlands, France, Germany and what, thanks to your inefficiency, your inefficient negotiation, we are almost here - leave for 2019 and then - means that you have done too much damage in that country. Now that we've been in the circle of the Dutch electorate? We're burned! The strangers won't give anything! The Dutch have said so too: if the IMF leaves the programme, we are leaving too. Franco, he doesn't! The Germans, Mr. Shoeble, tell us the same thing immediately and clearly. So the so-called political negotiation is heard and we see it, and every time we hear it, we are afraid, because the Prime Minister is returning with worse carpets, with heavy burdens for employees, for pensioners. But the 20 grand in those two "liquids", the syndicates at the IPTO, you know how to give them. And after the saliva, who didn't give it back and wanted to take the retrospectives, the 200 grand, you know that they will now take 7,000 euros, because there's such a contract, that if for any reason they're being set up by the administration, they're taking a consultant's place. That's a scandal! Why do you keep this contract?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u357	This is your contract. We fired them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u358	You fired them, but you kept them! With 7,000 euros you now have advisors to the administration.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u359	The contract is yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u360	Mr. Friend, you have them as advisors! Do you have them or don't you have them as consultants? Are you going to drive me crazy? Dismiss them and advisers!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u361	Mr. Amyras, don't have an interactive conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u362	But, Mr President, they are constantly entering our debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u363	Please, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u364	Ladies and gentlemen, the 2015 nightmare is, unfortunately, returning on worse terms and without having an international ally. Where are our alliances? Where's the South, where was he supposed to go to our fairness? The Spaniards don't even see us! A second delusion is not justified by anyone, and this time the responsibilities, the policies and not just the government's body will be put on the table. The Greeks did not vote for you to take the country second time to the rocks in two years. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope we all understand the criticality of moments and hope - amen! - at the last minute the government will see the real light. But I fear that this will not happen, because the blindness of it, party blindness, is profound. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u365	Mr Baxvanakis, Deputy Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, has the floor for seven minutes. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u366	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, for our Government, vocational education and training are a priority issue and this is evidenced by the changes and reforms that we have already been implementing since the current school year. But, before we got to these changes, we had to reverse a situation that we found, the stripping of vocational education by teachers and students. I am referring to the great reform section of the New Democracy - PASOK confrontation with the dismissal and availability of over two thousand vocational education teachers and the expulsion of thousands of pupils and pupils who wanted to follow the areas that were abolished by the public school. We, therefore, restored to the public school these thousands of teachers, who - not least - had been made available by the signature of today's Chief of Police Reform, as Minister of Administrative Reform at the time, and restored and reopened professional high school in all areas and specialities that that cohabitation had abolished, giving pupils and students the right to choose the sector and the specialty they would like. At the same time, we completed our strategic planning for vocational education and training through a holistic view of vocational education, with the aim of upgrading its social role, reducing social inequalities and providing quality education to our students and students and, at the same time, aiming to provide a smooth and secure professional way out to its graduates.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u367	Please, ladies and gentlemen, a little quiet. Mr. Undersecretary, continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u368	We want, in other words, the students' choice of whether to follow the direction of general or professional high school from a choice of need, which, unfortunately, is today, to become a free, conscious choice of pupils, who will do so on the basis of their gradients, needs and interests. These changes consist of three, in our view, of serious issues of peak: The first is the new structure of the professional high school, the First and Second grades of which have already been implemented since the current school year. It will be completed next year, when it embraces the third class. This new structure consists of providing students with solid knowledge and at the same time specialized professional and technological knowledge and skills, which will enable them to become able to pursue a subsequent professional career. The second axis is the possibility we have already given for the introduction of graduates of professional high school in addition to TEIs and universities in excess of 1% of the number of importers. What we do with this bill is to create a joint team of schools, which will include sections of the TEIs and of the universities. The Joint Group will have access to all areas, irrespective of the specificity they have chosen. This joint team will also be owned by the Armed Forces Staff Schools, the Schools of Firefighting and the Academy of Merchant Navy. At the same time, with this bill, we are reintroducing the possibility that the graduates of the seasonal professional high school might be introduced into an additional percentage of the number of admissionees at the TEI, a possibility that was previously abolished - by coincidence again - in the year 2013, again from the Samara - Venizelos co-government, and again when the Minister of Administrative Reform was the current Chief of Civilian Anti-Population. Too many serious things, important reforms, as you like to say, colleagues of the New Democracy and of the PASOK, took place that year in 2013. The third aspect, in our view, is the implementation of the post-training year, the class of apprenticeship, as a safe and smooth first contact of graduates with the labour market. Because too much has been said, which are misinforming and scandalous lies, about what is true of the post-training year, let me refer to its basic characteristics. First, it's optional. Anyone who wants to join, who wants to join. Secondly, it concerns graduates at school, which means that they are young people, adults, older than eighteen years of age. In other words, in no case do these falsehoods sound about the work of minors. Thirdly, it is under the supervision of the PSA or the Laboratories' School, with the appointment of a trainee responsible, who is attending the trainees during their work place. Fourthly, they have full insurance and labour rights, as defined by labour and insurance legislation. Fifthly, a remuneration equal to 75% of the minimum wage laid down by the National General Association of Labour Convention is provided for. So it is absolutely false what is said about unpaid and uninsured work. For flaming over supposedly the provision of cheap labour to employers, the reality is quite different. If so, we would have employers' tails outside the services of the Ministry of Education or the regional education structures, to ask apprentices to incorporate them as unpaid potential in their businesses. The opposite happens. There is a great deal of effort to convince small and medium-sized enterprises - because this is what we are talking about - to accept taking part in the programme from which they will pay half the fee. Finally, let me mention as briefly as possible the issues of special education and training, which has been a great deal of talk in this Chamber and during the discussions in the Committee on Education. With this bill, and in particular Article 11, we are trying to take certain measures that are helpful for disabled and disabled students or for special educational needs. I shall refer to a feature which has not been heard. We ensure equal access to the good of education for children with disabilities, as we abolish the requirement to participate in the introductory examinations at higher dance and dramatic art schools, where a certificate of excellence was required. This anachronistic presidential decree of 1983 is repealed by this draft law. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I'm gonna need two minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u369	Please, Mr. Baxvanakis. I'll give you one more minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u370	Also, in relation to some of the comments made on the second foreign language, no student is exempted from either monitoring or evaluation for the second foreign language. What we do with Article 11 is that the degree to which the second foreign language is considered to be equal to the average will not be counted, and that is only if the parents are asked to do so. And this as a small contribution to relieve a large group of students from this stress, considering the difficulties they have in assimilating knowledge. What did we do in the special lawsuit? This year was the first year after decades when in special education schools the bell rang on September 12, at the same time in all special education schools and at the same time with all general education schools in our country. I was present myself in the sanctification that took place at the Special Occupational Gymnasium and at the Pyrgos EP, and I can convey to you the surprise of our parents, teachers and students that this sanctuary took place on the first day of the school year. They couldn't believe it. Secondly, the recruitment of assistant teachers was carried out for the first time before the recruitment of assistants for general education. This is what the law requires, but it has never been implemented. Our government did it for the first time in September 2016. Up to now ten thousand alternate teachers have been recruited in the structures of special education and for parallel support. The last salutary year of the New Democracy - PASOK coup d'état, in 2014-2015, had hired six thousand three hundred teachers. We are talking about more than four thousand teachers, who today with the well-known financial difficulties are in special education schools, helping students and students in need. This shows in practice that in these circumstances our government’s priority is in practice the most needy social strata. This year, after eight years of anhydration, twenty-three new special education schools have been set up throughout the country, twelve new Lyceum classes in special vocational education and five hundred and thirty-eight new departments of integration in general primary and secondary schools. Finally, with regard to the provisions of Article 11 on how departments are formed in special education schools...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u371	Please finish, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u372	The provisions establishing the minimum number of pupils shall determine the number of three pupils. This is more favourable than the existing provisions. To clarify a misunderstanding which, in our view, is appropriate, I would like to say that this article refers to how the schools are formed. For example, if there are ten pupils in one school, seven departments will not be formed. That's clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u373	Finish, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u374	This is not how schools form themselves. The government declares in the most official way that no special education and training school will be abolished, regardless of the number of its students. We are referring throughout the country, in the last mountainous and inaccessible area, to the smaller island of our country: no special education school will be abolished. No student will be deprived of the possibility of attending a special education school, regardless of the country's most important location. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u375	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, forty-three students and students and five educational attendants from the 2nd Trikala School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Please, Mrs Zaroulia, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u376	I would also like a little tolerance, Mr President, like the previous one, because it is an important bill, and it is urgent and we have no other opportunity to talk about it. We denounce the urgent procedure, because we are dealing with issues which are both heterogeneous and diverse through it. Generally speaking, it is well known that the view of the concurrent SYRIZA - ANEL for education is completely and especially against national education, the model that evangelizes nationalism, which specializes and harmonizes with the history of the millenniums of Hellenism, this appearance in tradition, customs and customs. The Greek education and education system must play a decisive role not only in maintaining collective consciousness and national memory, but also in shaping the ethos and worthy of young people. Irrespective of this, the newly introduced model of education by the political arsonists of the Syrian heirous motto of the indicted dangerous anti-national payments and obsessive ideas is not only in line with the needs of the Greek society, the Greek tradition and the historical social links of the Greek society, but also contrary to the national identity itself, depriving the national memory and the unwritten moral and worthwhile codes, who have their origin from the course of the nation in history. As a Greek nationalist movement, we strongly oppose the collapse of today's education, because this institutional capacity of the nationalists and the submission of this form to their hands is something dangerous. In short, not only do we have a positive attitude to the principle of attempting to degrade national identity through training, but we are naturally opposed to every operation of undermining and defiance of national conscience. Let's go to this bill now. The examinations of the State Language Certificate have been designed on the basis of the principles underlying the common European language reference framework. Since 2003, the system of examinations and certification of the State of Language Certificate has been constantly in operation, and since 2010 the electronic version has been started, with the aim of electronic examination providing automated structures. Undoubtedly, the State Certificate of Language is a powerful weapon of language learning, but it needs to be upgraded. Clearly, the test conditions need to be improved, which helps to obtain a valid low test certificate. But where more emphasis and attention should be given is to the new regulations introduced in the draft law on primary and secondary education. Insert the single student number. The establishment of a single student number will allegedly facilitate the identification and follow-up of the course of each student in school years, regardless of the units or geographical areas in which he is studying, with full respect for personal data. At the same time, there will be checks on any student registration in the same school year in more than one school year, as well as on the identification of foreign students when requesting a change of information. Here, taking into account the pursuits of coexistence and the pressures for the integration of children of illegal immigrants, you are likely to have favourable arrangements for foreign students and a file on Greek students. Here we find an institution that emphases the student’s personality and the purpose of its implementation is not pure. The concept of the single number of students is part of the effort to record the mental development of the young learner and his psychological concerns. The follow-up of his course through the single number of students is clearly interfering with personal data and, if we consider the disgraceful campaign on trans-national standards and the attempt to impose new stereotypes, which are a bomb on the foundations of society, then we are talking about an institution dangerous, as the child will be strictly controlled. Any divergences in his behaviour, resulting from the natural laws of society, may also be rejected and interventions through his surveillance will have a clear impact on his mentality and mentality. So the Golden Dawn says "not in the single number of students. The establishment of a Private Education Directorate at the Ministry of Education is provided for in order to address all issues relating to private education in a definitive and effective manner for all interested members. And this is quite a suspect, as the unified and absolute control of private schools by the Ministry is an outspoken opportunity to draw them fully into line with the line of anti-national and ethnicist coexistence. However, the centralised nature established here leaves many suggestions in the purposes that hide behind the pretext of the emerging weaknesses and the supposed need to streamline the responsibilities of the Ministry's services. Within formal and technical arrangements, such as the sale of museum to the Kapodistrian, and issues of vocational training, they undergo provisions that promote the assimilation of Greekism and the legalization of illegal immigrants. In particular, the legislative improvement on Article 29 demonstrates the methods of anti-national and political actors in the Syrian co-operation, based on their nationalist views for the full addiction of the Greek state, the spread of waves of aliens on the ground, the alteration of the population composition of the Greek society and its homogeneity. In particular, it is not enough for them to qualify for the Greek school, but this is extended by the words "or at a school that follows a Greek programme". For us Greek nationalists, it is not a top issue in the settlement of formal issues, but the unfolding crime that is under way, and that is the unconditional and mass assimilation of smugglers within the national body. What do they mean by 'a Greek-programme school'? What kind of schools are these other than private institutions? Is this a provision related to the article in which the powers of the 'Ministry of Anti-national Education' in private schools are strengthened? Are private institutions created by the famous Greek NGO, where illegal immigrants are the ticket to mass citizenship? What no one is talking about and has understood it, and deliberately and in a delusional way, is that a school with Greek program could be considered as the teaching that takes place during the afternoons separately in children of refugees and illegal immigrants in Greek schools. This opens the way to the provision of citizenship to all those who are in hot spots and that is why they insist on Greek schools attending the evening hours, with separate teaching in Greek. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like some more time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u377	How much time do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u378	One or two minutes. I'll try to be short. Therefore, you do not provide them with education, but a ticket from Greek nationality. Because the previous law on the award of Greek citizenship to illegal immigrants, which only the Golden Dawn voted against, provided that the refugees attend Greek school and not in a school with a Greek program. It is because I have no time, because I shall refer to some of the articles, which we shall vote against. We say 'no' to the shameful article 7. Under no circumstances should the student's fresco and follow-up be established. With regard to Article 12, although legal provisions are introduced for students of the ESDP, paragraph 4 regulates classification in the Armed Forces, a provision contrary to the Golden Dawn Programme, in the programme of a national state. In Article 13 we also say 'no'. In addition to the introduction into higher education without examinations for candidates with serious health problems, foreigners or foreign graduates from foreign schools are admitted to the territory. Whose aliens? Those who have received citizenship unconstitutional? Moreover, according to Law 2525/1997, in the event that the foreigners exceed the number of posts, they can be accepted as a priority by deciding to convene the selection programme against Greek citizens. Here we see the state being racist against the Greeks. The distinction to the detriment of people with disabilities from visual arts is also understood. With regard to Article 14, although the situation in Thrace and the needs of the particular situation are known, the article is, in fact, a strengthening of the Muslim element and privileged treatment of Muslims. The Muslim minority in Thrace needs special treatment, with emphasis on defending our national interests and not promoting the strengthening and broadening of the rights of the Muslim minority. More Muslims are introduced to the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, when Muslim teachers' yearbook has been blocked from the queue. So where exactly will they be appointed and what service will they offer? In Article 15 we say 'no'. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I'm sorry. I'd like your tolerance. Highly suspicious is the establishment of the Private Education Unit, which will supervise private primary and secondary schools. What is the conclusion, therefore, of the unit's objective, which is to ensure the education provided and supervision? Do some not derogate from the nationalist orientation of the Ministry of Education, which crushs national education and introduce the fierce anti-homophobia and invisible racism standards? In Article 29 we said 'no'. Article 31. Paragraph 11 of Article 19 has been transposed here, where there are no favourable arrangements for multiples. At the highest level of the social priorities and needs there is the strengthening of the many Greek families whose members should be facilitated and in the vicinity of the family. Such a provision is, of course, at the opposite side of the social resilience of co-government, which provides vague and provocative privileges only to all kinds of foreigners, of course, with unimportant. In conclusion, the draft legislation, introduced by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, is against it at first instance and we have reservations about minimum positive provisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u379	Thank you, too. Mr Kegeroglu, Member of the Democratic Alliance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u380	Ladies and gentlemen, the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman has called on us because we have not said a good word so far about tax overcompensation and overcompensation. In other words, we have been insulted by the fact that we have not applauded the Government for overtaxation in which it has submitted citizens and small and medium-sized enterprises, for the high insurance contributions it has imposed on professionals who will receive pensions in future. It also insulted us because we did not applaud the great increase in working hours and rotating work, which present the latest elements of "ERGANI", making the four-hour, part-time work, which was sometimes degraded work, a far-reaching vision. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a draft law with thirty-six articles, only six of which were consulted, while the remaining thirty came along - and of course in various ways - relating mainly to arrangements, other necessary, but not, many of which are customer-friendly. The Ministers of Government SYRIZA - ANEL change: Baltas, Friend, Gavroglou. Tactical, however, remains the same. Baltas and Friends, while opening up the dialogue, which we would follow, which they called 'national', at the same time made legislation on the issues we were discussing. And Mr Gavroglou, who said a few days ago in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media that he will not do so and he will not follow what his predecessors have done, is ultimately part of the tornado. This means that supreme powers, beyond the Ministers, define the line on how to conduct and legislate. And, unfortunately, this is not the right way to legislate. Ladies and gentlemen, for this bill, our position is 'at present' at the outset. There are, of course, articles that we shall be voting on, but there are articles which we will vote against or other to which we will be saying 'no' because of specific paragraphs, which have been put together with others that may be positive or vice versa. I begin my position on the occasion of Articles 26 and 27, which provide once again for the fragmentary redesign of the map of university departments in our country. However, does this redesign not all of us say, assessing what has happened in the past, that it must be on a single, broader basis where we will really be able to see the needs of the country as a whole and not come to legislate on a case-by-case basis? Why, since this has been the case for a long time and we have agreed on it in the context of the national dialogue, has this process not even been followed yet, but are we going to be part of the process? You are telling us today that two sections of tourism are being established. Yes, sir. Good. No one has any objections. It's very useful. But what about the commitment of the Ministry of Education, the State, to the establishment of a tourism section in Rethymnon? Another will be found and he will tell me, "Why in Rethymnon and not elsewhere?" Uh, yeah, this wider reflection needs to be reached. I do not know who has intervened so that this commitment of the government is not implemented. Mr Gavroglou said in his speech today - and I fully agree that the tourism industry needs its universities. Yes, sir. Where are we going to do it, that is, the tourism segments? I don't understand. When we say tourism, Rhodes and Crete, Crete and Rhodes - we may fight for the series, but nothing else comes first - with the respective universities and departments, Minister, Professor. Here, therefore, other criteria for priorities have been laid down. And we say that today we are asking for your commitment to this section in Rethymnon. But if we do that, it will really be another fragmentary arrangement. It will be better, therefore, since there is no way to make an overall assessment of what needs to be done today, really to come to a Committee on Education on a unique subject, and to come to the departments and schools and other things. Article 18 repeals the SPS. First, you deceived it and led to the resignation of scientists of prestige, which you yourself proposed, and now you are setting up another, from which you exclude important social actors. Article 20 is a follow-up to the mass movement of middle school teachers and primary school teachers at universities. It is the continuation of the method, the teacher becomes a teacher in medicine, and the high school teacher becomes a teacher in polytechnics. With Article 23 you place anonymous companies officially in universities. You create a private publishing house at the Open University, which in our time, in relation to the technology that exists and the needs of students, who already bear high costs, will create new barriers so that weak economic students cannot study at the Open University. You put a stop to low-income students. With Article 30, you are opening the academy of Halos to extend the pension limits. Didn't you get the message the other day - yesterday - from what Mrs Thanos had happened to the Areo Ice and the other body that discussed it? So, why are you insisting on these? Minister, we ask you to accept the amendment to legislate on the possibility of re-examination at a second opportunity by those who are candidates from the pan-Hellenics who do not give any lessons, by proposing and improving the legal capacity of authorizing them, in order to have a ministerial decision. And, if you wish, you can add, 'and after the opinion or assent of the Committee on Morphic Affairs', that is, that the draft ministerial decision will be discussed in the Committee on Morphic Affairs. A statement in this House is enough, so that we can all commit that there will be an opinion through this procedure in order to make the decision. I conclude by saying that there is really a way, if all the time we do not have legislative work and sit down - to say this, we have many gaps in the legislative work - a well-processed draft law is in place, there really is a dialogue field. But if you'll excuse me, but the way you bring it, you'll lead to bills, which do not bring the result - even the government - that results. We are therefore voting 'at present' in principle. Thank you, Mr President, for the tolerance of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u381	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Mr Giannakides, Member of SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u382	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, for us the minority educational system is a guaranteed right to minority. Our main aim is to further reduce school leakage, to complete compulsory nine-year-old education, but also high school, and to win the Greek-minority that will allow young people and young minorities to claim their future on equal terms in our country. The goal is that the minority school is increasingly converging in quality with the public school by upgrading the teaching facilities of teachers, improving and modernising books and curricula. With today's bill, we are moving on to another targeted move, which continues to deepen the reform effort for the education of the minority children. The abolition of the Thessaloniki Special Educational Academy with Law 3966/2011 came to the satisfaction of a chronic demand of the minority, the educational community, the society as a whole. The status of the junta established PPC generally provided low-quality education, did not meet the current educational needs and did not ensure equal working rights for its graduates in relation to the other academic schools. The abolition of PPC, which was a positive step, was accompanied by the provision for the creation of a Minority Education Sector at the Pedagogical Department of Municipal Education of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki. However, the previous governments were unaware of the legislative immunity, the development and staffing of this sector. The Education Department decided at its meeting in 2011 to set up a Minority Education Sector. The decision was sent to the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs to obtain approval, but this never happened. Shortly thereafter, with Law 4009/2011, the sectors were abolished. Since then, the Education Department of Municipal Education has returned several times to its proposal to establish a Minority Education Sector, but without a response from the Ministry. The introduction of additional students from the minority continued the academic year 2011-2012 and since then, with the exception of the academic year 2012-2013, the additional number of students coming from the Thrace minority was defined each year and entered into the Education Department of Municipal Education. It can therefore be seen that from 2011 to 2016 at the Pedagogical Department of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, the sector in question operated informally. Under Law.4310/2014 it was foreseen that the graduates of the Department of Municipal Education, members of the Thrace Minority, who were introduced from the academic year 2011-2012 to the academic year 2014-2015, would be enrolled in the Department of IP73 “Ministerial Minority Program of Primary Education”, since they continued their education at the Municipal Education Department of the Democritus University of Thrace for a period of two years. This provision for a further two years of education created a very important stimulus for graduates of Municipal Education Departments who would like to join the Department of IP73 and work in the minority programme of minority schools. This was because while studies in all departments, which lead to primary and secondary education, are four years old, especially for the IP73 branch, would be converted into six-year-olds, setting a serious issue of parity. These pathogens and dead ends of Law 3410/2014, which, unlike what has been said, had created triumphs at the time in PASOK, and in no case can we claim to be a basis for today's bill, we are facing today. In December 2016, following the restoration of the fields as a basic academic unit of universities with Law.4386/2016 and the redefinition of the General Assembly of the Department, the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs proceeded with the adoption of a ministerial decision on the establishment of Minority Education Sector at the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki. The sector which has been formally operating since 2011 can now, with the necessary institutional safeguard, fulfil its objectives, namely education on the school programme in minority languages and the development of research in all areas related to minority education. Under this arrangement, university education related to minority education acquires two complementary pillars. The first is the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, who undertakes the training of future teachers of the minority programme of primary minority schools. The second pillar is the Democritus University of Thrace, the object of which is to harmonise the graduates of PPPs and to train the active teachers and the two programmes of minority schools. The graduates of the School of Municipal Education from the Thracian minority will have successfully attended and completed, during their studies in the department, all compulsory courses, such as all other students and students. With their graduation from the Department, the members of the minority acquire the degree of the Department of Municipal Education of the Department of Municipal Education, which allows participation in all recruitment procedures in the Greek State. At the same time, with the entry on the certificate of analytical assessment, taken by all graduates, of their successful participation in compulsory courses in the field of minority education, they acquire the right to join the Department of IP73. The Pedagogical Department of the University of Thrace, which retains responsibility for the uniformity of the graduates of the Special Pedagogical Academy to the graduates of the Pedagogical Schools of Municipal Education of the IOI, can also undertake the continuing training of teachers - permanent and deputies - of both school programmes in matters relating to the specific nature and needs of minority primary schools. The high university education of teachers to be provided by the educational programmes of minority schools, the provision of a general degree in educational primary education and not a specific diploma of limited value, are important - but not the only - steps to upgrade minority education. We will continue to fight for overcoming the pathogens that have been inherited from previous governments. Step by step - step by step, but firmly, we will proceed to all the necessary conflicts and changes, focusing on the real problems of society and the educational community and not micro-party aspirations, in which in recent years the parties that have been fully responsible for the deadlocks of the country, but also on the civilian staff, particularly in eastern Macedonia and Thrace, who have been engaged in continuing party transitions to a party, with only the aim of their personal political survival. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u383	Thank you, too. Mr. Panayotarus, Member of the Golden Dawn, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u384	Thank you, Mr President. We heard a parliamentary spokesman who referred to an e-mail from Mr Flavouraris about the protests and complaints that anyone can make. He sent, he says, the e-mail and he finally didn't get any answers. I guess in the wrong mail he sent it. There is another, the 'www.stage government.org', to go right where it should go! As for this bill, since you have taken all the necessary unfavourable, preparatory actions with various bills on the mosque in the Botanic - when there are no Muslims officially in our home country, because all those in Athens are all illegal immigrants - when you have done with various failed bills in the past - provisionally in force and recently on the performance of Greek citizenship to all, we will now refer to the following - with Article 29 you are facilitating the procedures for obtaining Greek citizenship by anyone. In the previous bill on the acquisition of Greek citizenship you said that if a child attends six years in primary school - I think you had thrown it in four years under certain conditions - he could acquire Greek citizenship at the Greek school. You now say not at Greek school, but at some school, at any school, which keeps the Greek education program. Soon you will tell us that anyone who has seen Greece in a photo will be able to testify to the Greek nationality! It is the preparatory actions that you have done for a long time now - with your globalised masters, of course, who guide you at all levels - for this story of open borders, but slowly all the states, one after another, understand it and shut it down, except us, since you have them open everywhere and insist on this disastrous and brilliant policy. We see that with the above bills you have crushed the institution of the family. As you say, we see what is going on with the various races, which you want to teach to the children at school next week. We are sure that the population, the parents, will all react to what you are going to do, in this disgrace which is above all unconstitutional, because that is what the Constitution of our country says in paragraph 2 of Article 16. Paragraph 2 of Article 16 therefore says that education is a basic task of the state and aims at the moral, spiritual, professional and physical education of the Greeks, the development of national and religious consciousness and their modulation to free and responsible citizens. And all that, which you are voting on, is clearly contrary to Article 16(2), which concerns education. And I repeat that all this is happening, as your worldly masters are protecting you. You bring diffusely into various bills - which at first show little relevance - a number of articles that are so structured and made in order to complete this puzzle of denationalisation of our country. Yesterday, Mr. Kotzias told us about the well-known Mr. Christos Rozenstein-Rozakis, who, as President of the European Court of Human Rights, had condemned our country with regard to the so-called "Turkish" - within many introductory - minority and - within more introductory - "Macedonian" minority, admitting that there is a Turkish and Macedonian minority in our country. And this tomorrow - you will make him organise and manage our country's foreign policy from a scientific point of view. Well done! And today you are bringing us a bill that, at the height of Article 29, shows how much you hate this country. We will start with a relatively innocent article, Article 4, which has something to do with the National Library of Greece. And here we have a comment to make, which some just said, but no one understood how in one day the National Library of Greece left the University Street and went somewhere else, to the south. But if you want to upgrade the historic centre of Athens, the capital, which has been hit multiplely in recent years and is downgraded to a point where it doesn't take any more, you should maintain the National Library in Athens, the Municipality of Athens, and strengthen it. You should do the same with other institutions and not kick them out of Athens. And we're not considering whether it was good or bad that he went to the Niarchus Foundation or should have gone somewhere else. In Article 13 we see changes in the way in which they are introduced into universities. So far this has been the last obstacle to your Marxist worldview, how all children, who are left-wing children, will be able to enter massively, with the degrees you say, at universities. But we all know what's going on with the teachers, especially at the universities, where if you're left-handed, and a drone to be, and ten years of student to be, you're going to get a degree, regardless of whether you've ever set foot on it. You want to do the same now. The pan-Hellenics were the last obstacle to you. We believe that this is a mistake which the Greek people will see in the coming years. In Article 14 we see some changes concerning the educational issues of the minority. But the issue is the Muslim minority and not the Turkish one, for which you now admit not indirectly, but immediately that it is the minority in Thrace. Unfortunately, however, we also see from the Right New Democracy, following many complaints by the Pomacians, that Mr Mitsotakis promotes the Turkish language but also things that are against the Pomaks. The question is - and it is in the Golden Dawn programme - that the populated language should emerge at all levels, from primary school to university, rather than constantly making changes in the interest of Turkish foreign policy, which is carried out through the true ruler of Thrace, the Turkish consulate. In Article 29 - we have said so - faithful to the orders of all those who are trying to degrade the nations, you are doing yet another anti-national energy. Really, this facility to acquire citizenship will be for that Afghan girl who was the day before, with hate and madness, the police officer? Finally, what about this young man, who should have left with his family a package back in Kabul, so to know that there is a state here, which has power and is not a clear vine? The role of the new Minister of Education, the god to discipline it, Mr. Gavroglou, is much more underground than Mr. Friend's predecessor. Mr. Friend directly told SYRIZA's policy. Mr. Gabroglou exercises exactly the same policy, which was not a "political Friend", was a SYRIZA policy, about the degradation and dismantling of education, in conjunction with many issues. Unfortunately, too, in religious matters, we see that you have a good cooperation with the slave, heretic, ecumenist, fan of pandemic at the expense of Orthodoxy in our country. The issue is here to read another article from the Greek Constitution, Article 21 on Article 29 and what you want to do next week with the racial identities. In Article 21(1), therefore, it states: ‘The family as the basis of the maintenance and promotion of the nation, as well as marriage, maternity and childhood, is under the protection of the State’. Obviously, they speak of another state, because the state you govern and govern, they do and do exactly the opposite. Finishing, whatever you do, as much as you hurry to dismantle this place, to dismantle our homeland, as the Ragosi law has previously been cancelled, so will the new law giving Greek citizenship to all, so without exception, will be invalidated and the hundreds of thousands that were Greekised, whether by the Ragosi Act or by the last law, and also all other anti-Greek laws will be abolished and that is certain. 58% of the Greeks, and you saw this in a golop, asks for a ban on the entry of Muslims to Greece. Over 54% throughout Europe, and you have been sleeping up and you believe that in this way I want you to impose those who are commanded by your globalized masters. Flip it, the beginning of the end of globalisation has come no matter what you do. It may take some time in Greece, because you have fed too much hay - and not only - the world, but it will be what needs to be done. Greece at some point, we hope very soon, will again belong to the Greeks, will be a homeland Orthodox with Greeks, not illegal immigrants, not with jihadists, not with atheists and not with fans of your tribal arthropology. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u385	Thank you, too. Mr Megalomoustakas, Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u386	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I will be staying within a bill, as I would like to show how important education is and I will try to be brief enough. So, then, of the three suffocating sessions of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, we are now in plenary to decide on the vote or vote against a bill, which many of us have said here today that it is abusively under the heading of urgency. I agree with them, and I would even like to add that with the bill today, we are bringing the term to another level, the bill -'sweeps' in articles -'sweeps'. We all know why. Education - I think we all agree - is an area of strategic importance for the country, but that is not the way things should go about education. With movements of ballistics and short-term changes and, indeed, in bills recently passed and still not implemented, I do not know whether we are going to give solutions. Should we think that what needs and needs for education is a valid dialogue, a holistic coverage of every issue with exhaustive and cross-party consensus and by drawing up a long-term strategy for all the key points that are appropriate and appropriate to the education system worthy of our country's children? Minister, I am sure that your morality and knowledge will not allow such bills and legislation to be repeated again. This is a'summary' legislation, which, unfortunately, does not coincide with what is being heard and proposed within the committees. It is still what has happened so far. Why am I saying that? Because you know very well that other things we were discussing within committees and other things Mr. Friends brought in within Parliament. I wonder whether so much is changing, improving, altering, correcting, for what grand and well-planned educational reforms have the ministers been doing for so many years? How many studies were they? What repercussions had been measured? How many problem scenarios were predicted? I really do not remember as long as I am in the Greek Parliament a draft law on education which does not include a large number of such masses, but fragmentary regulations at the same time. Once we have to stop this way of legislating and dealing with the problems that afflict our people. Indeed, the sloppiness in this bill is apparent first of all from the lack of costing certain arrangements from the General Accounting Office of the State, while the lack of understanding within the government is seen by the question of ELIDEEC. It is a body for research and technology set up by law a few months ago and the new Minister is now coming, and it is actually downgrading it, in fact, on issues that we had warned the previous Minister. It is therefore clear that there is probably no consultation and cooperation within the government. It may change the government shape, but the government is always the same. We're on 2017. I don't want to gloat. It's the seventh year of memorials. Each family is squeezed from the financial measures that you are voting on before the deadlines expire as an emergency and necessary and always with the gun to the head. When is this finally going to stop? Is it the same way that we should legislate in both education and culture and health and the environment? Can we not finally open a window of hope and with serious legislative initiatives to remove some of the burden that all our fellow citizens bear on their backs? A few examples of this bill will be mentioned now. What is the reason why students and students should pay the State Certificate of Language? Are they paying for full-blowns? If that's the way it is, we can do our schools. At least for students and students it should be free. Otherwise, why should they be taught at school if the state can't give them a certificate for free? You are now setting up the double examination and you are doing well. But adopt our proposal that we should also adopt alternative forms of evaluation - either oral or with some work - and create parallel student support courses, which have been cut three times in a row, with compulsory follow-up of these courses, so that we can provide a permanent and general solution. Set it up for two weeks in the absence of a child for artistic reasons. You're still good. You do not, however, adopt our proposal for a reasonable increase in the current limits of absences in conjunction with the abolition of the justification for absenteeism - which we all know is a hypocritical process now - always with direct parental information and a 30-month absenteeism limit. We've seen schools don't work for the last two months. We believe that this measure will solve this pathogen. At the same time, however, we must also have supportive personalised teaching in missing children, so that there are no scientific and teaching gaps. So we will still give a fixed and general solution. In our view this bill has some positive points, but its structure makes it very difficult for its voting process. This is because in an article there are different types of arrangements. That's what you need to fix. The Centro Association has shown itself to be a political party which, consistently and in a spirit of suprapartmental understanding and a desire for cooperation, always comes to the dialogue on education. With our questions in parliamentary control, with our positions, with our speeches in the media and in particular with our codified positions in the Committee on Morphic Affairs in May 2016, we proved every day that for us investing in education is a maximum of useful investment for our country, as our new generation and our children are our future, hope and our national capital. In this context, I would like to mention that despite our parliamentary presence in only one year, we have proposed a number of actions for the whole of education, and I would mention some of them for all levels. For primary and secondary school we talked about the adoption of decisions by the Child's Counsellor on all issues of school life and direct information via electronic interconnection with schools, while we believe that the presence of the Counsellor of the Child is necessary in all bills involving under the age of eighteen. We are also in favour of the adoption of a more friendly but similarly reliable system for entering the EIT, which could even look like the AEP. We also believe in the Bank's remodeling in milder form, in providing equal opportunities for graduates and both types of high school for access to higher education, and we also consider it necessary to include a psychologist and professional guidance consultant in school life. We also believe that the reintroduction of standards of high school and high school, while our flag is the reduction of bureaucracy, which can be done by forming an administrative team per school, which will help unlock teachers from the graduation work and focus only on the educational and advisory role. At the same time, this must be done because we have been wronged by teachers and by the formation of a special educational wage. We cannot only take care of the 'local' and the high-level in the ECJ. For higher education, what we have proposed is the formation of a staff degree. It is essentially a domestic ERASMUS, in which the student could choose two - indicative is the number - lessons of another university, in order to extend his or her knowledge. I do not believe it will affect the nature of his studies. The other thing we are proposing is the amendment of Article 35 to Law 4009/2011, so that the responsibilities of the Student's Counsel may also concern examinations and student ratings. We've seen a lot of phenomena happen and student complaints at universities are too much. Finally, for tertiary education, we are defenders of "no" in student and student deletions, while the governments have so far kept the memoranda inside. We can't fight kids to study and threaten them to erase them. I believe that it is clear - to close and not abuse my time - from every good listener that we in the Association of Centres and especially in the issues of education, are working methodically, without dull impacts and brilliances, with a high sense of responsibility, composing opinions and acting with sensitivities, particularly on all the social basic issues. That should be done by everyone in here, which is difficult, of course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u387	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I announce to the House that the Standing Committee on Production and Trade submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy "Following the Agreement between the Hellenic Republic, the Republic of Albania, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and the European Commission for the Protection and Sustainable Development of the Prespes Park Area". We're on our way with the Congressman of the Golden Dawn, Mr. Shahinides. Mr. Shahinides, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u388	Thank you, Mr President. Although the cost of the State Language Diploma remains about half in relation to foreign private operators, as mentioned in the explanatory statement, it continues to be, especially in the time we live, a great exit for Greek families, around 80 to 100 euros per person, depending on the level. Examination of the acquisition of the State Language Degree suggests that as Golden Dawn is completely free of charge for primary, high school and high school students and the cost of charging and covering entirely from the Ministry's resources. Impressive, of course, in the same article, the abolition of the character of the supervisors who were public teachers, but without at the same time any provision being made for who will be supervised in the written examinations and what qualifications they will of course be chosen. Finally, the oral examination of the candidates may be made more costly, as noted in the report, but clearly it is not more reliable, as it is established to examine both - three candidates instead of the two examiners, who have actually been in place so far. As regards school trips and the travel of pupils and teachers, they belong and must be supervised by the Ministry of Education. The transfer of responsibilities to the regions under Article 186 of Law 3852/2010 has shown that it has caused more problems than it could solve and the reintroduction of responsibility to the Ministry is necessary. However, today there are a number of different ministerial decisions, laws, presidential decrees, on the issue of primary, secondary, teachers, pupils, and so on. A codification is being proposed here in a single text of the legislation in force, so that the whole process of directors and those responsible for the school excursions is easy and clear. And don't forget the cases in the school trips. We all know very well that a number of things need to be tightened up in relation to how these excursions take place. We are very well aware of how much alcohol is consumed by minor children, so an article on this tightening has to be added. School cleaning staff should be treated as an organic part of the school unit and made up of permanent staff belonging to the Ministry of Education. As far as the recognition of primary and secondary education is concerned, we consider that it should cover all years and not just seven years. In particular, if this service is in private primary and secondary schools. Article 11 abolishes the reduction of the number of schoolchildren at school as currently in force, i.e. when there is a student with a diagnostic disability and provides for a reduction in the number of pupils, when pupils with disabilities are over one. We believe that such a decision is incorrect because it is not taken in the light of the educational interest of the student or of the department, but in the light of the sound savings of resources, once again treating education as a poor relative, which we have to tolerate. It is therefore common conviction and permanent practice that the issues relating to the competence of the Ministry of Education are dealt with in opportunely and in a way without considering what is beneficial to the Greek youth, for which it naturally has an absolute responsibility to discipline it, but which decides according to party benefit and ideality and possibly for some third parties who will benefit from this policy. This draft law, of course, could not get away from it, and the changes it proposes are either dangerous or useless and address the issue with carelessness and fragmentation. Of course, no one could expect anything more or better than a government that has no power but has neither the will to legislate in the light of national interests. This is because the term 'national interest' does not exist as a concept, but as a practice in the plans of today's coexistence. On this point, I will be allowed to close a small historical regression on the offer of all the democratic parties within Ethiopia, in Greek education. In 1976 the then Minister of Education George Rallis abolished the cleansing, a dialect that had succeeded - let me phrase - "married" the ancient Greek with the municipality, so that people could learn and come in touch more easily.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u389	What do you think? What are you talking about right now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u390	You answer the lawsuit I've done to you and then talk to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u391	What language are you talking about? Ancient Greek? Was I cleaning? What exactly?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u392	November 1981, Minister for Education: Vervakis. In the first few months, even, of the rule of Andreas Papandreou abolished the polytonic and applied the monotony with a presidential decree. Last summer, 2007, history book F Primary: Agglomeration. Fortunately, the next Minister of New Democracy, Mr Stylianides, withdrew. Today, nowadays, what did you achieve? We have officials, MPs and ministers of the current government, who call Skopje, "Macedonia", as they are, rather, used to in your circles. There is a lesson in the elementary school for gender discrimination on the basis of sexuality, like minors, and not just minors, but young children, are ready to accept such a thing. Finally, there is the imposition of participation by children of illegal immigrants in Greek education. This will result in only one thing, the degradation of Greek education, because in fact teachers, whom you are working to train these children of illegal immigrants, will not be forced to engage in Greeks. And this proves how liars and hypocrites you are, since you said they were passive, while you want to make them permanent and give them Greek citizenship. All of this, we have told you repeatedly that when with the good and the blessing of God the Golden Dawn comes to things, we will abolish them. We're picking up these. We have a record of the bills and the amendments you are going through and they are of a resurrected nature and we will be abolishing them overnight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u393	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-one students and students and three educational attendants from the Larisa High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs. Kefalidou has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u394	Mr President, thank you very much. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today - with fast-track procedures - a draft law which would have been more precise as 'Confiding various unrelated provisions, arrangements, correcting incorrect legislation and regulating State Certificate of Lingua'! You've brought the present body of unrelated provisions, which should have come into separate bills. You brought thirty-five, I think - somewhere should be the number - articles and only two of them have passed through the legal consultation procedure. The rest came on their way to the House. Was there any need that led to this urgent legislative procedure? Oh, no. And we haven't got an answer. You have just found two provisions, and you have, by the way, added another thirty three, and since Members are here and can vote for them, you have said: 'Let us move on to the fines and without dialogue and the rest'. This, unfortunately, is the permanent way of legislating on your day, and this is the contribution of the SYRIZA - ANEL to parliamentism. After hearing the bodies in the Committee on Educational Affairs, which you have surprised them once again, it would be inconceivable, Minister, to refer again to the need for dialogue and consensus, because the most well-being have now become aware of it. Dialogue is a tool that is deceived in the hands of the government, only invoke it when you want to cover failures, drunkenness, service and photographic devices. I am saying this so that people can hear it and know it too. Nowadays the bills are being prepared and discussed elsewhere. The House passes a short walk and the MPs run panic at the last minute, noting the "SOS" that everyone will catch. Put it in the leg! Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law regulates the State Certificate of Language Learning, the functioning of the National Library and other public libraries, and then the festival begins. There is no level of education that does not concern: issues of students with learning difficulties, travel of students and educational excursions, placement of physics instructors in swimming pools, arrangements for the subjects of students studying at the PAALs, import issues in HEIs and TEIs, issues of minority education, supervision of private schools, AEIs, research and technology issues, modification of the Code of Greek citizenship. He's got it all and it's interesting! Let's see some articles. Article 1 to 2: State Certificate of Language Learning. We agree. We would, however, expect the government, after fourteen years of implementing a very nice idea, to have more confidence in the public school and to provide the possibility of certification at the level of foreign language adequacy, not for the parent to run in the schools when diplomas are made more expensive. In particular, following the doubt expressed by the Government regarding the quality of examinations by private operators. But how can you certify something when foreign language teachers arrive at the end of December in remote areas, such as the Lower Neuroscope Drama or the Twins or the islands? Article 11: Settlement of special treatment issues. The field of special treatment is a privileged place for the Left to show its values and sensitivities. Children with special learning needs are an undignified potential for young, intelligent people with talents and skills that their promotion depends on the interest and attention of the state. The bill is blind. He treats them as second grade students and does the worst of all, selling them in school. Listen to something. These kids don't want to be merciful. These kids want teachers and specialist teachers. They want classes where their diversity fits. They want tests adapted to their needs. But what am I telling you? It has two months now that I've been fighting the Drama Music Gymnasium, which despite all the questions I've asked, which have never been answered, Minister, is one of the best in Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u395	Forty years. Now, yes, we do.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u396	Don't move your head, Mr. Comrade. So what were we doing there? Because we had a greater number of children with learning difficulties, instead of building a new section, we said to them: "Children, go find your luck" and we decided that we would strangle them. This is the real picture. And what else did you think about these kids? As far as the part of training in a foreign language is concerned, we sold them'scientific facilities'. These children can and can request to be examined and rated, but in an adapted way of examination and, unfortunately, today's school does not give them that possibility. What did you do? You managed your own insufficiency to make it a ball in the kids. In this sense of minor effort, you build people with inadequacies. Legitate quickly and in the leg, and that's a mock and an insult. Article 18: National Council for Human Resources Education and Development. We had the S.H.I.E.L.D. It's been bothering you since the first time you took over, Mr. Gavroglou. Maybe because it was an autonomous instrument. Perhaps because it was independent of the leadership of the Ministry of Education. That's why you're building a new agency, the ECHR, cut and sewn to your measures, directly dependent on the Minister. And while you insist that it is a body of scientific guidance, inclusive, linking the labour market to education - oh of the miracle! - There are no fundamental bodies. And I will not only speak of the Special Education, I will tell you the basic point: the EESC, the National Research and Innovation Council. Why is that? Probably because SYRIZA means efficiency and flexibility. And then you're disturbed that you're being blamed for overconcentration! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need some time, Mr. President. Thank you very much. Article 20, Staff Regulations of HR staff. It is an article of classical arrangements, service and other facilities to specific groups of servants at the IOIs. And I'm going straight to paragraph 4a. Permanent primary and secondary education teachers are switched to positions of Special Educational Personnel in universities and TEIs and, of course, this creates the need to predict and recommend positions in the relevant HEIs. I'm still trying to figure out why you insist. Why does the government insist on this regulation? She was brought by Mr. Friend. He withdrew her. You're bringing her now, too. And I ask you this: is this how the public school will be upgraded, avoiding it from the best potential it has? On the basis of what study of Florence, do you proceed and insist on such an arrangement? Is it served by specific persons and with the royal ones will also be watered by pots? And exactly what about the gaps that will be created in public primary, high school and high school, which you sweat every year to cover? And, finally, will someone tell us how much all these nice transitions cost? Article 24, arrangements of the State grant institution, paragraph 5. Silent and humble. At a time when the Greek people are playing crown letters what will first pay, the government with three dictionaries is legislating for foreign scholars. And what do you think he's doing? It abolishes the obligation to carry out for five years the work for which they were trained and at the same time abolishes the obligation to reimburse the amount of the grant if they do not. And that's not even what you're saying. So here's what we're doing. We send them out, we train them and then - anyway useless they are in a Greece that can't find its pace, in a Greece where only three-way committees of the four makers - are sending them to find their luck elsewhere. To provide the knowledge that we have paid as a Greek people and to pay taxes in foreign countries. And because we're also kimps, and because they don't just give up on us, but we're spared by the money, we're abolishing the obligation to return to the IKY everything that he spent. Do I understand well, Minister? Is that what we're doing? I'm done. Article 28, arrangements for research. The glorious field of the new model of modern legacy. I am voting, voting and voting again! Paragraph 10 states that the GATS is responsible for the organisation and functioning of the ELIDEC. That's what the bill says. May I remind you that the ink hasn't been dried yet by the vote of the ELIDEK? Should I remind you of the advertising that the government itself did to you? Remind the anthems of independence, its modern and flexible form? May I remind you of our questions, that there is an issue of overlaps with the Secretariat-General? What happened within three months?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u397	Mrs. Kefalidou, you're finishing up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u398	I'll be done. The ELIDEK entered under the General Secretariat of Research and Technology. What study? With what consultation? What's changed? Article 32. I think it was very wise for you to withdraw it, because it is not possible for museums to be playful and move from one ministry to another because it suits some people. I would like to mention, before I say my last proposal, the amendment we have tabled, Minister. This amendment gives parents and children a breath, because we are human beings and we get sick. And in the pan-Hellenic exams you know the stress of children is huge. There are also diseases that create more tension in children. I'll tell you something I've happened to live on. There's rheumatoid arthritis. Too many children are suffering from it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u399	Please, Mrs. Kefalidou, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u400	Thank you very much for understanding, but it is very important, it concerns all Greek families.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u401	Fifteen minutes is here!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u402	What am I supposed to do? Can I stop her? Mrs. Kefalidou, please complete. Colleagues protest.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u403	For graduate students at the university, you give them the opportunity to take part in all six months, to test all examinations. You say here that for reasons of equality, they will be examined in all courses. I mean, it's not enough that they're sick, we're gonna punish them. Show a "greaterness", please very much, on the subject of the examinations.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u404	Mrs Kefalidou, colleagues are protesting. Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u405	Say a suggestion.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u406	The proposal has been tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u407	Mrs. Kefalidou, please, you're finishing up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u408	I close by saying that these parliamentary procedures do not honor any of us, they are shameful, degrading the value of the legislative body and insulting all of us. Thank you very much for understanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u409	Mr Michaelides, Member of SYRIZA, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u410	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are voting on today attempts to put a order on issues of the wider area of education, such as the State Certificate of Language, the National Library and the other public libraries, special education, minority education, higher education and research and others. Allow me to take the time available to two, not first-line, admittedly, issues that the Ministry of Education regulates through this bill. The first issue concerns the establishment of a Department of Economy and Tourism Administration in Chios. This department will be the fourth of the School of Management of the University of the Aegean, which is based in Chios. By this provision, that is to say Article 26, the adventure of establishing this section, starting in 2009, is essentially an end. Very briefly, I have to say that this section was originally set up by a Presidential Decree in 2009, but in fact it never worked. While it was typically abolished in 2013 by the then co-government in the context of the “ATHENA” programme. A few months ago, in September 2016, the Senate of the Aegean University unanimously recommended the re-establishment of the Department of Economy and Administration of Tourism. This request from the University of the Aegean, which obviously supported the entire local society, satisfys with Article 26 today the Ministry of Education with its draft law. I would like to stress that the fulfilment of this request is based primarily on scientific needs and at the same time has been facilitated by the solid academic background of the School of Sciences and the relevance of these cognitive objects to tourism. For example, since 1996, tourism has been heading for the undergraduate study programme at the Department of Business and since 1997 has been operating the interdimensional postgraduate curriculum of Design, Administration and Tourism Policy at the School of Management. In addition, since 2000, the Laboratory for Tourism Research and Studies has been operating. I therefore believe that the Department of Economy and Tourism in Chios is working together to achieve three critical goals. Firstly, to contribute together with the Department of Tourism Studies of the University of Piraeus, which is also established by Article 26, to the treatment of a scientific object that is extremely critical to the economic development of the islands and the country in general. Secondly, it further strengthens the academic profile and extroversion of the School of Sciences of the University of the Aegean, an institution which - I would remind you - despite the weaknesses that its multi-slaughter character itself entails, has an excellent performance, such as, for example, recently announced report on the external evaluation of the IPO. Thirdly, it will contribute to the economic and social and cultural life of Chios, one of the Aegean islands currently in need of development movements due to the current crisis, as we know, with the flows it accepts because of the refugee and immigration issue. The second issue, to which I should like to refer, concerns the provision of Article 12(2), which restores some of the problems that have arisen since the application of Article 40 of Law 4403/2016 as regards private learners. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] In particular, I am referring to the transitional arrangement, which allows students in the 3rd class of the ESDP and the 4th class of the summer PSAs, who also work as seafarers, to complete their studies uninterruptedly. In particular, this provision stipulates that for students in the masters and commercial seafarers' and engineering sectors, absenteeism will not be taken into account during the period in which they are employed on board ships. I therefore believe that the two provisions to which I have referred are moving in the general spirit of the bill, as they respond positively to reasonable requests from social groups and resolve in an appropriate manner outstanding issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u411	Thank you. Mr. Consola, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u412	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, as my fellow Member says, we must listen to Rhodes as well. Except I'm not tempted to answer Mr. Michaelides, because my problem, Mr. Minister, is not Chios or Rhodes. I would like to say from the beginning of this Step, that for our Minister, the Minister of Education, I have spoken in public. I pay particular tribute to him. And I honor him even though I have huge and fundamental political differences. However, I did not imagine that Mr Gavroglou, a university colleague, would follow a well-founded - our rapporteur, Mrs Kerameau, said so too much and good - who is sick, violates the moral and political limits we have used to many decades in this Chamber. And you know what, Minister? I would sincerely expect you to follow something different, to have a constitutional and legal, structured debate at the National Representation, without purpose and without discussing a regulatory issue of the State Certificate of Language with a bill that only two articles are dedicated to it. So you, unfortunately, are not an exception to the rule either. And, you know, it's a bill of stitching, Mr. President and Minister. The government is trying to encapsulate the House, bringing unjust regulations to one another in the same article. A colleague from the opposition said so well: it seems to be a multi-project string. That's the truth. Because, Minister, if you wanted to regulate all the issues that concern so many issues, they would have come to the Committee on Education. We could discuss without purpose in the context of the national dialogue on these issues, which you are tabling in the bill. Only two articles of the thirty of the bill refer to what the title of the bill says, as submitted by you in the House. You have announced, Minister, the establishment of the Committee on Education's finances, which is particularly important to our universities - you know them, you experience them as a university - whose function is marginal. But I wonder how such a committee will work when this government is really caught in obsessed and ideologies. Your policy so far goes away from reality, since it wants Greece to be the only country in Europe that does not have non-State universities and since the government has a negative attitude towards the prospect of English-speaking departments in our universities, which could address foreign students and especially students with tuition fees. This experiment has taken place at the Open University. There is, moreover, another university in the country where foreign students have been attracted to curricula. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I will bring one example to the effect that the institutional statement and the adjournment with which the government is dealing with the legislative work with the project that this House brings. I shall refer to paragraph 10 of Article 28, according to which the Secretariat-General for Research and Technology will be responsible for the organisation and operation of the Hellenic Institute for Research and Technology. I must remind you, Minister, that a few months ago in this Chamber we pointed out these more regulated regulations, the establishment of which, unfortunately, the Foundation for Technology in an autonomous polo, which effectively degraded the GET and created a framework for continuous overlapping. Now you're coming to do what? Explain what you have instituted. It is a given fact that many of these arrangements of this bill will get them back. Remember that. You will bring back other arrangements here in the Chamber, to get them back, because then there was sloppy and appropriate. That's the truth. Ladies and gentlemen, I now come to Article 26, which establishes a Department of Management of Tourism at the University of the Aegean Sea, based in Chios, instead of Rhodes, as foreseen by the relevant bill made by the State, since it was established here by the National Representation. In fact, it was created by specific regulation by the previous government and by agreement of the Senate of the Aegean University. I am not going to fall into the trap, as I have told you, against Mr. Michaelides. It's not my purpose. I'm glad you finally thought about two years late to institutionalise Departments of Tourism in the country. We are the only country in Europe that does not have tourist training. I'm glad.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u413	Which Mr Arvanitopoulos has closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u414	We didn't close it, Minister. The important thing, ladies and gentlemen, is the question of political and moral order. However, moral order and respect do not exist from you, because you do not respect the concept of the continuity of the state, Minister. It is clear to this government that there is no respect for the concept of state continuity. It is the Government of SYRIZA - ANEL, which merged the cancellation of two parts, Greek-language and English-language, at the University of Aegean and Greek-language and English-language at the University of Crete in Rethymno. The operation of these two sections was already under way and initiated by the previous government. It was a universal request from the institutions of Rhodes, as Mr Michaelides said about Chios, the productive and scientific bodies offered to provide a solution to both the housing and the feeding of students. It would be good to submit to the Minutes what I had submitted to Mr Phile, the unanimous decision of the local society from more than forty bodies, from the regional director to the last body. Like, too, I notified you of this. I'd testified to Mr. Loverdo, too. You know, I'm not saying anything but what I did as a member of the Couple. I'm filing it in the Minutes. I am also tabling the decision of the University of the Aegean, i.e. the first and second decision of the Senate of the University of the Aegean in November 2014, which unanimously expressed the University's decision to establish in Rhodes and ultimately the Senate's decision of the University of the Aegean, which absolves its decision and takes it instead of Rhodes to Chios. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It is more than clear, ladies and gentlemen, that for some government actors, but unfortunately also for some of the players of the Aegean University, Rhodes is not entitled to be on the map of tourism education and tourism. Who? Rhodes, the leading tourist destination in the country, the crossroads of cultures and history, the Rhodes of tourist economic development with a hundred and seventy-eight flights to destinations of Europe and the world, when Chios does not have a single charter flight from abroad. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You know, very clearly, Minister, there was a procession from you. For two years, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government had buried the issue in order to cancel the establishment of a Department of Tourism based in Rhodes. In this process, whether intentionally or inadvertently, the University of the Aegean also contributed with its deafening silence. And here is the political leadership of the Ministry. I can't say anything more than this Step. He did not respect the senator's decision in November 2014 and two years later takes the completely opposite decision and suggests that it be made in Chios. That's the credibility we're talking about. I want to see which of my fellow Members, for this inconsistency, will vote for Rule 26. Here we are counting. The government, as well as the University of the Aegean, insult Rhodes, Minister, and tourism education. The Government and the Aegean University consider that there is no place for Rhodes on the map of tourism education in the country. They want Rhodes watch. Only Rhodes and Dodecanese have a dynamic that outweighs them. I'm sorry to say it, but the Aegean University has been removed and alienated from Rhodes now. This is a development that will have a negative impact on the future. It leads to his shrinkage. Ladies and gentlemen, one is the solution. Everyone accepts what is happening in the international community: non-state universities. Minister, I have asked you many times as chairman of the Committee on Culture to discuss this issue without any interest in the committee. You did not. As you have also not made a promise: to discuss overall tourism education in the country in committee. They have said so as well as colleagues from the opposition. That's not what you did either. You have taken a fragmentary approach to institutionalising issues of tourism education without there being a strategic plan for the coming years. You know, Rhodes in the course of time will claim self-evident: to be the main pillar of tourism education in the Mediterranean. That's right. And that's what's gonna happen. We will do this as a next government with the non-State universities, which I am sure we will proceed with the constitutional review and will now be implemented in the country. Do you know why? Why, Minister, we're...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u415	Mr. Consola, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u416	I shall conclude, Madam President, and thank you for your tolerance. You know, here Mr. Friends had brought to the Committee on Culture - and I had welcomed this - the Minister of Education of Cyprus and brought the function there as an example. So if you want to follow an example, the practice that was successful, to attract more than twenty-five, thirty-thousand students to Cyprus, why don't you do it? You don't do it because you have ideas. You don't believe in what the market and society want. Because it's not just academic criteria. It's what the real economy wants in the country. The most important wealth right now in the country is education and tourism. Tourism education is the prospect for the country. And you're the last to dismiss this right. Do you know why you've been deporting it for the last time, Mr. Xydakis? Because you refuse to institutionalise the research institutes that we had established in the previous government. Even this Institute of Tourism Research, based in Rhodes and Athens, abolishes it, which did not want a budget and was self-financed. I, Minister, invite you even now. You will bring this to the Committee on Education, Youth, Education and the Media to discuss the whole question of education. We welcome the establishment of the departments...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u417	All right, Mr. Consola, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u418	If you really believe in this perspective, open a window in the future. So I think you have the sensitivities. Otherwise, society will get over you in the next few days. The New Democracy will give an answer when it has to.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u419	I would ask that we respect time, because there are many speakers. Mr. Cremastino has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u420	Thank you, Madam President. I imagine the Minister will have realised that today's debate in the Committee on Culture was not about the bill, but about the other provisions. The bill is entitled “Adjustment of the subjects of the State Certificate of Language, the National Library of Greece and other provisions”. These issues have been heard very little. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please, be quiet, 'cause I can't talk like that. Madam President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u421	Yeah, let's get a little quiet. Mr. Console, listen to the President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u422	The whole debate turned about the other provisions. The question is that we cannot support the other provisions, and that is why we cannot arrest them. There are so many and the consequences are even more. I have just mentioned an example in the Committee on Moroccan Affairs and said how a provision which a party has supported for twenty years and withdraws from it, seeing that it creates problems relating to corruption and, if you like, the flaw in universities, comes back 15 years after it has been withdrawn, to improve the functioning of universities. I can't understand that. Because at least thirty-five years I've been in the NRP and I know how the NRP works, its semesters and its positive and negative ones, I'm telling you that it will create exactly the same problems, for which it was withdrawn in 2002. I say this again in committee, because I know how these provisions are coming, who are pressing and who are serving. They don't serve students. They serve those who have key administrative positions and who want to extend their stay to the administrative position for one year. I know that from experience, and I do not want to use examples, which I know. In fact, I wonder how the New Democracy, which knows it, did not mention it because, when the provision was withdrawn, it had no objection, because everyone admitted that it should have been withdrawn. Minister, as I have said to Mr Phile, I, too, will personally support any positive legislation of the Ministry, which will improve the functioning of the higher institutions. I say this in full knowledge of what I am saying, because since post-mortem and then there was a lust - to call it that - titles. All higher schools wanted to be named universities. But university means having the whole range of sciences. The economic school, the ASA, cannot only be called a university. It's a senior economic school. She's a senior, equal to college, yes. What is this lust of titles? There is also the lust of the teacher's titles. We should all be professors. To be a hundred times. But it is a teacher who produces knowledge, who is accepted by all the world. That's the professor. Professor is not the teacher I honor. He's the teacher, too. However, Professor P.I. who does not produce knowledge, which is accepted by all the world, to allow me to tell you that he is a teacher, without this being underestimated, because the teaching work can often be just as well better and better than research. But, a professor, as we call him at the universities internationally, is the one whose name we see in international literature, which does indeed have positive references. When we say references, the reports may also be negative. You may have an opinion, which may not be at all at all and which has been rejected by the international community. So it is not the number of jobs. I was repeating this when I was at the Medical School and voting for teachers. In any case, what matters is that these things must be cleared up. Here we have reached the point that we do not have any assistants or caregivers in hospitals today. They're all directors. All doctors became managers today without running departments. Do you know any directors who don't run divisions? The same thing is happening in universities. All schools should have joined a university and not be universities, which are essentially of one quality. I want to say something that I take from Andreas Papandreou, who said that Xenophon Zolotas was the one who kept the country's economy and created the strong drachma in the 1960s. How many of the professors of the wise economic universities have told us what is going to happen to the euro and what are the dangers of the euro? When did they call? When the country crippled without competitiveness within the euro, to get where it is today. Where are Zolota's equal teachers? Andreas Papandreou was a professor at fifteen universities, Mr. Philie. And when he said that, he wasn't the politician who wanted to make savoir fare to Zolota. You understand that. He firmly believed it and said that we should have a university to acquire this attitude in this length and width. So bring such arrangements and I will personally vote with my two hands. But you can't bring these things. You said to the committee 'because I was upset'. I didn't get upset at all with you personally and you know I appreciate you very much and I honor you. I was upset with the beard, which I can't tolerate. What we call excellence and competitiveness must exist in universities. It's no different. If these things are not there, education cannot go ahead. The university, therefore, and research must really go ahead. I would suggest that you apply a National Academy of Science, the American or the European, where the powers of the worthy Greek scientists abroad also come part time here in these universities and bring the minds in, but also connect it to the outside. It's no different. This blockade, not getting young people into universities to grow old in universities, will bring the end of the country. You need to find a way, find a way, if you want, to make this renewal. I know that the country's economic conditions are what they are, but that does not mean that there are no ways of making this renewal of scientific potential. We can't get the units today that are abroad lost. That is the big problem we have today. Today hundreds of thousands of young people are leaving abroad with only lusts of survival, profit and money, because here the wages are the ones. But it shouldn't be like that. They should be called for high-level posts abroad, due to our quality and not looking for a place to survive. Of course, you're gonna tell me, a few years ago, they're going to work, at least now they're going to scientists. That's good, but it's not the perfect thing, that's not the point. And the purpose should be different. The Ministry of Education should see these things. I will also tell you that I am personally in favour of the institution of public universities and never served private universities. But when Cyprus today has eight universities - and I will not talk about Europe, but about Cyprus - and our own students go there, we need competitiveness. I would suggest that, not private universities of the private level should come, but that you put such standards, which, if they want, could bring a MIT, a Harvard, an Oxford, a Cambridge, to compete. That's how Greece's going ahead. He can't go forward when we see things narrow. And I'm telling you, I'm in favor of the public university. However, the public university must have competitiveness. Not everyone can be permanent in their positions and wait for them to retire. This can't be done in universities. That's what you need to see, see, put any verbs you want, but you can't stand the country, if it's got this mentality. And I shall end, because time has passed, Madam President, on account of my capacity as a member of the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. You'll have reactions. The cuts are bloody, but, if the cuts are not made in surgery, there is no cure. Blood in the surgeries in surgery is a basic condition for the sick to become well. If we see the sick outside, without doing anything, then you know we're losing him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u423	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Papachristopoulos has the floor and then Mr Excellency.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u424	Thank you, Madam President. Because the news is that there is also one of Parliament's responsibilities to monitor what is going on around us today, I just want to remind you that in the Euroworking Group some things will be decided today on whether we will be going positively to Eurogroup of 20 February, with a view to getting into quantitative relaxation. It is a very big issue for the country. He's a historian, I think, this month and we're living historical times. I just want to remind you that today Klaus Regling made a very positive statement for our country, that Greek debt is no longer a problem and is capable of being settled. It's a good message, because we've really experienced infinite times of good in the last few days. I want to believe that there will be a tough negotiation on 20 February and we all in this Chamber want to hope - there are also irregularities, I ignore them - we want all the good of the country, we want evaluation to work. Between us we may have differences, we may have tough opposition, but I think it is a major issue for the country's good right now. I'm closing this parentheses. In relation to today's bill, I would like to say the following: I look forward to what and at what time with the high school graduation one can finally register with the Greek universities. This incredible reality that children live in the last two grades of high school - in fact, they are not dealing with their ranks at all - will have to end sooner or later. I think that the willingness of this reality is also the proposed bill. I would like to remind you that the first piece of this piece almost indicates that the electronic way in which it relates to the certificates of language learning is now a reality around the world. And I'm surprised, because I listen with respect to what was blocking us decades ago, that is, to really compete with Lower, Proficiency and so much. It is something that we see today getting flesh and bone, with many remarks, of course. I believe that in the future we will be able to improve it, but it is certainly a step forward. I also want to say again in relation to today's bill that I am overcoming the issue of the National Library, because I think we have no dispute there. At least, from what I have heard here in this Chamber, I have not found any objections on this matter. But I heard objections on other issues. I am referring to Article 25 and Article 26 for tourist schools. We all know that our development is largely due to tourism. How many decades did it take to make tourist schools maximum? If you ask me, whether it's going to happen here or there, let's see it. What prevented previous regimes from making tourist schools, since we know that our development is largely due to -16 billion people entering the country - tourism. So criticising is easy. What we did, however, did not respond. But I don't want to stand on it too much. I have heard everyone speak with love about the Minister, 'we respect you', etc. I want to say something more, because I've watched him on all the committees. Mr Gabroglou is the definition of decency in this Greek Parliament. With unbelievably adverse conditions, a juvenile peace that really troubles me and I say that we should all once imitate him. So I can't imagine this minister, with that spirit, on this course, in this way, with a great university career that we all respect, that he would do something wrong. The fact that there is another philosophy in education is fact and that is where we can confront it. I don't want to remind you that those teachers with sound titles were the ones who signed the lab's previous decisions to pass the medicine, etc. I don't want to say it. I believe that higher education should, of course, be started at the most basic level - to improve to a very large extent. It's a small revolution, the dignity of this part. I would like to come to another issue, because there has been too much noise for us, the Independent Greeks, today. And I don't belong to those who let anything fall down. I want to remind you of the following: When a Member of our Parliament objects or disagrees with his group - it has not been forbidden, there is a term of honour, a base, to say that for those who remember that word - he delivers his seat and leaves. Costas Damabilit did it. And to her honor for SYRIZA, Catrivanu did so. Number one, therefore, in the Independent Greeks is the code of honor. I am not criticising Members of Parliament who are independent. They are judged for this and their right to do so. We have a code of conduct and we apply it. Number two is the price code. We have nothing with the MPs who are independent and who go to other parties. It's their right. We have, however, said and applied it that we do not accept any MP from another party, through his term of office. And remember that we are doing this. The third is that we have introduced the vote in our party consciously. We have done so at least five times in this Parliament. If you want, I can remind you of one in one of the cases. For example, in the coexistence agreement some Members voted 'yes' and some 'no' and some 'no'. In my opinion, it is a democratic right to the parliamentary groups. I say again that I do not monopolize the truth or claim infallible. I'm telling you what's happening to us. And something like that happened today. The Member of the Independent Greeks will vote against - and this is his inalienable right - Article 29. However, I have to tell you this. This right, like any other MEP from the Independent Greeks, has this right, with the difference that our view, following the improvement that this article has, must be voted on. And that is the opinion of the parliamentary representative and that is not my personal opinion. I don't want to say any more. I'm telling you, there's been too much noise. And because I have heard my friend George Amyras say things, I will remind him that the Group of Independent Greeks, perhaps only the JRC, is very solid. It has the democratic right to vote consciously, but this group will not stop being a punch. That is my answer to the comments that have been made today and there has been too much, too much, too. It's the tenth time this thing happened. And we have said that in matters that are social and so on, it is an inalienable right for each Member to have his or her opinion. I don't want to say any more. Thank you for your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u425	Mr Excellency has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u426	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today the State Language Certificate bill at a time when the situation on the open fronts of our country - evaluation, migration etc. - it becomes marginal and the opposition once more exceeds itself in a micro-political posterior recital and often propaganda food. In fact, this is not only the case in the fields that I mentioned before, but also in matters that involve even minor children, in order to affect her political opponent. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, as well as of the Essen Representation, we are discussing a bill concerning the State Certificate of Language and the National Library, but it also addresses issues of education, of a technical and functional nature, which require urgent settlement. You come now and shout out and break your clothes because there are articles in the bill regulating such matters. If we dispersed them as amendments to bills, with a different object, would you prefer it? Isn't it more rational to concentrate all these arrangements on just one bill? But your concern is in every way, by any means, without barriers and principles, without reservations and controversy, about the degradation of the government. I shall now refer to the bill. With regard to the State Certificate of Language Learning and the importance of the arrangements introduced by this bill, exhaustive reference has been made and I will not go any further. The same was done to regulate the issues of the National Library. The bill we are discussing also regulates, as I said before, urgent issues of primary and secondary education. An important regulation is that primary and secondary education teachers of increased qualifications can transfer to a EDPS position to meet needs in higher education. They are the same ones who are seconded each year and meet the needs of higher education. The question of school tours is rationally regulated - and I do not understand why there has been a debate in the Committee on Education - with its final appointment to the Directors of Regional Education. There is also recognition for teachers that the proven education service is up to seven years old, as is the case for all civil servants, with the exception of teachers until now. The lowest and highest number of special education classes are defined, while the Minister is committed to seeing, in a spirit of flexibility, the possibility of exceptions in areas where there is no alternative. The introduction of students without an examination is regulated by the inclusion of other diseases in the relevant list, in order to benefit other students suffering from them at a rate of 5%. Minor education issues are regulated. The single number of students is set up, allowing it to be monitored over time in school years. In this way, the phenomenon of school leakage can be considered reliably and targeted actions to address it actively can be developed and the identification of foreign students can be facilitated when they request a change of data. The needs for the cleanup of primary and secondary school units for the school year 2017-2018 shall be met. This issue must be resolved substantially by taking this obligation from local government. The Staff Regulations of Officials of the European Union and the Conditions of Employment of Other Servants of the European Union shall apply to the Staff Regulations of Officials of the European The possibility of a joint meeting of PYTE - PYPE - PYPE - of the Services Councils is introduced, not only in the first 10 days of September, but throughout the year, because there are issues of common teachers and the Councils must resolve these issues among themselves. In Article 12 we are making a very important cut. Starts the "Medical Year - Class of Learning" and the "Political Class of Learning" in the year 2016-2017 and completes the mandatory nine months of apprenticeship in the school year 2017-2018. You, of course, ladies and gentlemen, have taken the easy and inexpensive path of specula, lies and slander. And what we did not hear in the Committee on Morphic Affairs: the work of minors, unpaid work, the supply of cheap labour to employers, things which, for anyone who is fundamentally studying regulation - optional, full insurance and labour rights, a fee of 75% of the lower wage of the national collective labour agreement - are claims clearly outrageous and incomprehensible. But your micropolitical euphoria has not been content with it. You also proceeded to personal attacks, directly against the price, reputation and personal value of our ministers. Ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that vocational education and training have been tried hard and discredited in the years of the previous governments. Who does not remember the availability of thousands of teachers of vocational education by the Samara government, with the partnership of 'good PASOK'? Who does not remember that the chief of the availability was the current Chief of Police Reform, with the place of the Minister of Administrative Reform then? Ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that our government has set vocational training as its priority, that it has adopted changes that have given the signal of another perception and another educational policy in this area. We have brought back to the public school these thousands of teachers who had been made available and, at the same time, we have restored the sectors and specialities that were abolished at the time and give pupils the right to choose these areas and these specialties, since they want them to be directed. Our Government carried out an important project in 2016 aimed at upgrading vocational education, strengthening its social role, limiting social inequalities, matching education with the needs and demands of Greek society and the economy. With the new ESDP structure, we are trying to make vocational education no longer the "poor relative" of public education. We are improving the quality of study programmes for all areas and specialities of the ESDP. We regulate the possibility for ESDP graduates to be introduced into a joint group of schools including TEIs, military schools, officer school, police school, fire and commercial navy, as well as in schools of HEIs, at a rate of 1% in excess of the number of admissions. Finally, with the bill we are debating today, we are reintroducing the right previously enjoyed by the students of the summer PESALs to enter special posts in our country's TEIs, a choice that you had abolished - who knows why? - in 2013. Ladies and gentlemen, I am ending with a more general comment on education. The left government has undertaken governance at a time when public education has been in Nadir: chronic audacity, constant arrhythmias in the operation of schools, lack of books and teaching staff, punishment, availability, redundancies, closure of schools, declining educational expenditure, but also a decaying school - an examination centre. All this led to all factors of educational reality, such as students, teachers and parents, in despair. The positions of SYRIZA and the government for education are the fruit of long-term fermentation with the educational movement. However, given the dissolution led by the previous rulings, urgent steps had to be taken in the first instance to tackle acute problems and malfunctions. At the moment we are in the final phase of reversing this situation, while at the same time our vision of education is beginning to unfold and its implementation begins. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u427	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, forty-five students and students and three educational sessions from the 1st Elassona Larissa General School (first Chamber). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Stylos from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u428	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot make a general reference to the political climate of days. Then, of course, I shall refer to the bill. We are in the same spectators' work once again. The government is negotiating hard, but holding the Greek people hostage. The economy is being drawn into an environment of uncertainty and insecurity. Nobody knows what's going to take us tomorrow morning. And all this because? What do we get? Time? We're eating our flesh! Allegiances? We're isolated internationally! Do we now avoid difficult measures? The government will sign even more difficult measures then. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today the draft law on the regulation of the State Certificate of Language, the National Library of Greece and other provisions. We have started with a bill where only two of its thirty articles have been consulted and discussed with the relevant bodies. This clearly shows how the current leadership of the Ministry of Education perceives discussion, organization, legitimisation, but also how it perceives the new generation of our country, the future, education, how it perceives tomorrow. Because a draft law on education and education is about what will happen in the next generation. I would like to make a reference - I expected a statement from the Minister of Education - to the Ministry of Education's realities in the past two years. I heard colleagues before. So, as far as the issues of education are concerned, you are going to fill in the following, in my opinion, reforms. These are the degradation of the full-day school, the abolition of the model schools, the quasi-statement of private schools, the abolition of the themes bank, the reintroduction of the eternal students, the selection of school managers by teachers, the "Korses" that comes in or does not - I don't know - in postgraduate. And all this goes on with the following: Public school gaps are covered by the reduction of teaching hours from thirty-five to thirty-five in elementary school, the "haircut" of thirty-five to thirty-two in high school and the reintroduction of the third award of teaching. That is the policy we have had so far. I heard the Minister today, who, in a large part of his speech in plenary, described his intentions in relation to the new high school. It is a catchy issue, and it concerns many. It is about the dialogue that will take place, it is about the debate. However, we have not heard anything specific, and we have not seen the plan with which we will be able to proceed with the upgrading of high school. And a few words have been forgotten which I would like to mention to the Minister, hoping to use them from now on in his planning. These are transparency, the impreciseness of the pan-Hellenic examinations, the objectivity.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u429	We've said it!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u430	I would point this out to you and tell you to take it into account. I now come to some articles in this bill. Article 14 refers to minority education. In 2014, the New Democracy and the PASOK - the coup d'état then - passed a law on minority education. Then SYRIZA had voted against him and denounced him and promised that he would come and abolish him. Today with what you come and vote here, you are actually reintroducing the law of the New Democracy of 2014 with only one difference - and you are doing well - which is very basic and very essential to us. I'm talking about Article 14. So you allow the teaching to be at the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, at the Pedagogical Department, and not at the Pedagogical Department of Alexandroupolis, Democritus University of Thrace. We believe that this difference is a very basic one. You underestimate the Democritus University of Thrace. We have not heard what that is about. And you haven't convinced us. But you can convince us then. You know the special reasons that the Democritus University of Thrace has and plays for the culture, economy and the development of the outermost region, such as Thrace. I'm not from Thrace, I'm from Continent. But I'm a Greek congressman! I would also like to comment on Article 18, which abolishes the ERC. There is a great weakness and a will from the SYRIZA Government to abolish institutions that are commonly accepted and sharedly accepted by all governments so far. You did not tell us what exactly you want to abolish it. You could recommend the new instrument as a complement to the ERC. Anyway, you're judging what you're doing. Article 19 has seventeen different paragraphs with seventeen completely irrelevant regulations. The SYRIZA Government has previously voted for the selective bodies for the election of university and TEI members to be fifteen members. Then the SYRIZA government came and changed that. She said she'd be eleven. SYRIZA's government said I'm going to dismantle the ACF, but then, after she said she'd abolish the ACF, she said she'd keep the ACF. Today the RESULTS system that operates does not give the possibility of eleven diligent bodies. We do not know what these changes are that you want to bring about. We understand them as counter-reforms. I will make a brief reference to Article 20, where you refer very specifically to a photographic device. That's rhysphetological, Minister. I do not know how Greek MPs accept voting for personal provisions. I am referring to the provision which says that the EMIs' MFF members elected for the year 2008 and their appointment act came out in the year 2016.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u431	In 2016 he left. You don't read.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u432	He's gone. Very well. Good. It's okay, Minister, that's why we're here. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Madam President, and I'll be done. Finally, I want to make a reference to Article 28 and say that the SYRIZA Government has come and introduced the ELIDEK. We criticised the ELICE and said that there is a Secretariat-General for Research and Technology. We said it was rough, we said we wanted the scholarships. I should like to open up a parenthesis and tell you that in the contract, which is in the air from the ELIDEC, which talks about gross fees for researchers of EUR 1,800, ladies and gentlemen, if you do the calculations of the final money given to our postdoctors, what they end up taking the month, is around EUR 400 to 500. If you believe that a postdoctor, a researcher, who is certainly over thirty years old, will stay in Greece to work in a postdoctoral program with a fee of EUR 400 and 500, then I think we have a difference of perception of reality. To conclude, today, although only for a moment in the morning the Deputy Minister did not respond to something very specific referred to in Article 28: the Research Centre of Western Greece, which had been based in Patras, is abolished. In this Research Centre there was, foresaw, the establishment of the Model Agricultural Nutritional Technology Park of Epirus, PATEPEI, to say it with the acronym, based at the Epirus TEI in Arta. You turn your back, ladies and gentlemen, in the Greek region, in the technological institutions, you turn your back to technological institutions that are directly related to the primary sector and production. We do not accept that. So we tell you that you can't hide, you can't have committed yourself to reopening them and coming today and saying that you're removing them and turning our backs.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u433	Mr. Style, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u434	Thank you very much. We are voting against specific articles from the bill. Our rapporteur has been mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u435	Thank you, too. Mr Pinheiro has the floor, and then the Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u436	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, you are now bringing a draft law to the House in the form of an urgent procedure for training, which is important and many of them want further investigation. You are in favour of dialogue, however, you are choosing to present us with a broom bill on all three levels of education and it touches many key issues of the educational system. This means, in simple terms, that many fields need a thorough discussion and not a pasade of regulations, as you are presenting to us. Perhaps the only positive point of the bill is the decision to relocate the National Library of Greece to the Centre of Culture "STAYROS NIARCHOS", a real lighthouse of the letters and arts that offers a shine of culture in a suffocating social environment. In fact, have you planned how to exploit the Greek state's undivided architecture of the University? In general, it could be noted that the bill is sloppy, as there are regulations which show no long-term targeting, on the other hand, there have been no impacts. It is characteristic that only two articles preceded public consultation, and there is no cost for the whole of the arrangements. Of course, the draft law does not lack the government's favourite hobby, which has become a practice in all the bills and is no longer a photography. One of them, unfortunately, relates to Article 14, which regulates issues of minority education and all this study and the attempt to widen the Teaching of the Minority Educational Programme of Alexandroupolis. That the area of Minority Education of the Department of Municipal Education of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki has been selected for the education of teachers for minority schools, is not, Minister, and so innocent. What kind of bills are you paying off? What's the study? Please submit it to Parliament's minutes, so we can see how many people worked for this decision of yours? Because with documentary you have to prove this, not because others dictated it beyond your ministry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u437	What do you mean it's not innocent? You said it wasn't innocent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u438	In university circles the reputation of the photographic layout is strongly promoted for a factor that wants to be appointed in Aristotle, of course having the appropriate qualifications. Do you know him? If you know him, Minister, tell us. If you don't know him, look for him, you'll find him. We won't let this article go like this. If you do not withdraw it, we will go to justice, as we consider this to be serious, but also unfair to Alexandroupolis, Evros and all of Thrace. Because, obviously, you don't know much about Alexandroupolis Teaching, I would like to inform you about this. This is not about the transformation of the general teachers, as some people claim, who have ceased to operate for five years and have been addressing teachers in public schools who wished to relocate. According to a explanatory statement from the Presidential Decree - a project of course - the Educational School of the Minority Programme was a new institution, a new institution. The aim is to specialise postgraduate departments in the serious and complex issues of the education of minority children in primary school. The logic of the Presidential Decree was that to teach in schools with a special composition, special education is needed. This training cannot be covered with just a few lessons in a sector, as the proposed article stipulates. If you are not aware, the program of the Master of the Educational Minority Programme of Alexandroupolis was formed by a team of scientists from three schools in Democritus. It was also designed on the basis of the needs of minority pupils. Sadly, however, you have once again preferred to show that Thrace is outside your political and educational account. You selected the area of Minority Education of the Municipal Education Department of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, using excuses and arguments that are unstable. As mentioned in the relevant article, the provision for the establishment of the Teacher of Educational Minority Program of Alexandroupolis in this form would again create a special separate educational structure, exclusively for this category of population, which was one of the most important vulnerabilities of the Thessaloniki Special Pedagogical Academy. Minister, it has nothing to do with the Teacher's Educational Minority Program of Alexandroupolis with the Thessaloniki Special Pedagogical Academy. It is not a continuation of it or a replacement of it. This is a retraining course in which only minority graduates from already Greek teaching departments are invited to awaken themselves. In fact, the introduction condition is the certified knowledge of the Turkish language, as is the case with those who enter for study in the language departments. Why only for the Turkish language, Minister? I was asked by pomacea teachers with a complaint why you did not include in your article and the pomacea language. They have complaints and I would ask you to give them an answer from the Step of Parliament. The Democritus University has supported the operation of the Teacher, contributing to the preparation of the necessary building infrastructure. In fact, the upgrading of the necessary logistics infrastructure for the start of operation in the building of the old Master "Theodoros Kastanos", which is located in the center of Alexandroupolis, has been launched for some time. It has been renovated and paid for by those who did the reconstruction. And I ask you, who's paying for this? As you can see, Minister, there are all the conditions for the operation of the Master under the umbrella of the Democritus University. That is why I invite you to reconsider, to withdraw Rule 14. It's unlike the popular feeling of Thrace. It's not right what you're doing. You are wrong in an entire region. You should also proceed with the adoption of the Presidential Decree on the launch of the Minority Education Teacher at Democritus University. In fact, it was ready since 2016, since September. Someone kept it. Why would he keep it in his drawer and not push it forward? We will be tabling a copy of the Presidential Decree on the Minutes of Parliament. Also, in credit to my names, I will submit a letter of protest from the University of Thrace, signed by the Quaestors, the presidents, the dean and the vice-presidents. The whole society of Thrace is opposed, as it is expressed by institutional factors. I also present the curriculum, the curriculum. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Anastassios (Tsos) and Mr Anastassios, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] That's why they've worked universities for all this, they've worked scientists. These were all paid and indeed some overtime. I ask you: Who's gonna pay for this? Where did the money come from? Why don't you give a full briefing to the Greek people, to the people of Thrace, who really feel like you're breaking it? So the University of Thrace can take over this process and I think you have a way to choose. He, so you can let the university work as planned.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u439	Mr. Prison, finish because you're over time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u440	A moment ago the Democratic Reconciliation tabled an amendment to that effect. Of course, this amendment, as our rapporteur has said, offends the self-interest of the university, and the Minister comes into detail, particularly as far as the self-employed is concerned. We in the New Democracy will not vote for Rule 14, we will vote against it. We want you to restore the normality that you are due to and also, we will not vote for the PASOK amendment, because it is not in line with what has been achieved so far by holding the Greek university in general. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u441	Minister, you have the floor for seven minutes. Is she okay? Because you've already spoken for twenty-seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u442	I'll try telegraphically to say a few things. Unfortunately the last two speakers were not so well informed about details, but there is one issue. He said now that we are unfair to the people of Thrace.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u443	Of course you don't. And you didn't come to the Rector Synod. We have this complaint.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u444	If we start localities of this type, we won't go far on education issues, especially when you come and so uninformed. But the main thing is this: you said we're going to settle these issues with the University of Thessaloniki, because it's circulating that someone wants to go to be appointed there. Same thing I could say about Thrace, right? That's what's going on. I'm not saying it because it's not available. It's not released, Mr. Pilgrim. He wants attention!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u445	That, Minister, is what we possess. You're taking it from us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u446	We don't take anything, and I'll explain it to you when his turn comes. Nobody gets anything. Localism has no place in education. It's over. Neither Rhodes is wronged or Athens is wronged or Kastoria is wronged, etc. Let's go solve a matter. Do not say "national cheque on education" and then locals play a dominant role. Saying that it's a bill, which is a broom, which has stuff inside it doesn't help because that's not it. Tell me, would you take the responsibility of slowing down the relocation of the Library, the subject of the single number of students, the issues of transfer of primary education, secondary education, the deadlines for the pan-Hellenic examinations, the implementation of the apprenticeship class and the interpretative problems that exist by many other laws and we are somehow trying to put them in one class because the procedures have been frozen? So who takes responsibility and we are all starting to see that other provisions have been introduced that have not been discussed, and so on.Huh? Here we go. We are discussing them in detail, as has been done in the Committee on Morphic Affairs. Now, on a number of other issues, there is a dialogue on high school issues. The government's commitment that it will not go into a regulation that undermines this dialogue. I challenge you to tell me about the issue of 'upgrade' of the last two classes of high school, 'dismissal', 'final examinations' and 'first year of university', tell me a word that exists here and undermines this dialogue. So don't create unfair impressions. Some things have been said and I'm telling you again. LEVELS and LEVEL's access to the LEVEL Certificate must definitely be done and a way must be found for students not to pay the offspring. We're committed to bringing them in to a next bill. Health leave for Deputy Professors. That's a very serious matter. There's a huge mess with the Public-Society Code. We are trying to solve this because it is unacceptable that these workers do not have these possibilities that have been conquered for so many years. Now, for the matter of exams at the A.I. Only or even can we win. In other words, the departments must take responsibility for how to organize the examinations. Each department can have peculiarities. There can be no general regulation on these issues. Pre-service to private education: The subject of pre-service time regulates it. Let's just say we're regulating something positive. There is a question of wage adjustment. That's a very serious matter. There are technical problems and political problems in budgetary terms. We are in consultation with the General Accounting Office of the State on these issues. School excursions. Look, school excursions should be approved by a level more than the school director. The school manager cannot have the last word, because there are many security problems, conditions, etc. There's no way the Minister will do it. It's wrong for the Minister to do it, so we're saying he's going to the regional training directors, but let's not say he's at every school. We'll find a lot of trouble before us if we do that. University of Ioannina. It's said we're doing it, because we're going to serve customer relations. I'm up against it. What the Polytechnic of the University of Ioannina does is to create the umbrella under which there will be multi-technical sections, which are today in the natural-mathematical independent sections. These three departments, which exist at the University of Ioannina, must be under this umbrella, so that professional rights can be guaranteed on the basis of a European convention ratified here and it says "only if these graduates are from polytechnic schools". In addition, it is a way of safeguarding these cognitive objects in substance. Tourist departments. There is a chaos at the meeting, because to say a few issues which we have not studied in depth, I must say that it does not help to discuss them. Firstly, we are not setting up new tourist divisions. We return to normal sections that were abolished by the "ATHENA" project and the way the abolition took place is that they were directed towards already existing sections. So there are misunderstandings that in one section there is another department so that Mr Arvanitopoulos can say that I closed departments and so on. We cannot say that tourism is our heavy industry and then say don't normalise it, because it's pathology to be one part in the other. So, by unanimous decisions of the senators, we are reintroducing these. Secondly, the fact that it is tourism, the heavy industry, does not mean that we will do infinite parts everywhere, to know what we say, because we do not take it to the other end. There was nothing here. So let's set this up in the way I told you, and of course the higher schools that are both in Rhodes and Corfu and elsewhere are able to operate together with the Ministry of Tourism because they are not part of the Ministry of Education. Here, then, is an issue which we need to see in a long-term planning. I say this because in Rethymnon we cannot establish a department. The last decision that has been made to establish this section is in 2007 by the Foundation's Senate and this is a section from the outset, while the other sections are what I told you. When I listened to Mrs. Kefaliannis, I felt it was probably the SYRIZA that closed all these sections. I don't understand exactly what's going on in here. I have explained it to you, and I agree with you. One colleague - I'm sorry, I don't remember who he was - said to discuss the issue of tourism education in the Committee on Morphic Affairs. It is indeed a very serious issue, because tourism education is not just the management of a hotel, I hope we understand that. When we say heavy industry, then, it is on too many levels. I said it this morning, I don't want to repeat it here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u447	It's not just the sea.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u448	It's not just the sea that my colleague from Castoria says. Sure. We fully agree, so I say it is a very complicated project and we need to discuss it, as we have said. Mr Kremastinos - I appreciate him - is a colleague at the University of Athens, from the leading members of the School of Medicine, but I think he has not understood anything in the Committee on Educational Affairs, and he is now missing. I am trying to argue that we are not extending the retirement age limit of university teachers and we are not going to extend it. What is being done is: If the date of birth falls within the academic year, it completes the academic year. That's why. Because the programming of the academic year is a uniform one and is long before the beginning of the academic year. That's what we're saying. There was a long time. I do not understand now, beyond that, what is the problem. However, what I would very much like to see with all due respect to Mr Kremastinos and to many other colleagues who, whether they have said or have told them other times, is not to enter into this logic that everything that is happening abroad is extremely and everything that is happening in Greece is for crying. Mercy with that misery! Let's look at things, as they really are. And abroad there are many good things that are done very problematicly, as well as in our country. Neither are all the Greeks who are abroad the saviors of Greece nor all those who are here are convicted and persecuted. So when these issues are discussed and discussed in this way, I do not think it will help. Now, look, for the RIS, the National Education Council, is there anyone here who wants the RIS restored? To put it and talk about it as such. Because the NSRP is an obsolete instrument and those who say why we do not go on with it, they have not explained why in the last ten years it has been inactive. What for?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u449	Are the meetings not until January 2015?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u450	Graphics and no substance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u451	Excuse me, meetings until January 15...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u452	Until Mr Baltas asked for resignations.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u453	You're wrong. Oh, no!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u454	You're stalling the process like this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u455	Let me tell you, Mrs. Kerameau, there's a meeting and a meeting we're talking about. Meeting together, looking and saying that we have met is not a meeting.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u456	Did SYRIZA nominate representatives to the U.S.S.S.A., as it should be?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u457	Would you like to discuss the subject of the HR? I suggest you put it as a topic. But what I find unacceptable is that we are going to set up a body to which there are government or party members that I did not understand. Do you want me to tell you who's involved? The President, the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Education, the President of State Scholarships, the President of the Rectorship Council, the President of the Conference of Presidents of the TEI, a representative from OELE, a representative from the Ministry of Finance, a representative from the Ministry of Finance, a representative from the Ministry of Labour...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u458	Five...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u459	I continue: A representative of the General Confederation of Workers of Greece, the Association of Regions of Greece, the Association of Business and Industry (SEV), the Central Association of Chambers of Greece, the National Confederation of Greek Trade, the National Institute of Labour, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u460	Two experts from the Minister - continue, Minister - almost ten people.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u461	You want to tell me which of them aren't supposed to exist? There is no one from Work, someone from the Ministry of Finance when we want to see how education is combined with the labour market? Tell me a person who's unnecessary here. Next item. At the Medical Centre of the Academy of Athens, an excellent research centre must be rationalized in terms of dealing with its fixed costs. As you know, he's not with all the research centres, it's special, and this thing needs to be dealt with immediately. As to the Open University, I would stress why a misunderstanding has been made, that it is a higher education institution. We just need to see for the past twenty years, from its experience, what changes have to be made and it is good to see this. However, these changes must be incorporated into the work of the University without apparently disturbing its character as HSY. Now, as far as what Mrs Antoniou pointed out, there is, you know, a building in Kastoria that cost the Greek public a lot of money and which is locked up, because it was to become a department of architecture, which never happened. And there are such facilities in many other places.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u462	And Alexandroupolis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u463	And in Alexandroupolis there are of course many TEIs etc. So here it will be one of the tasks that academic regional councils should do. Academic regional councils must also make use of such areas within a development framework. I think, especially in Kastoria, we should explore the creation of a research and academic area. For example, as far as I know, I may fall out, but as far as I know, young farmers do not have a place to go for substantial advice. Such spaces, which have this peculiarity to be academics and researchers and are not exactly academics and just researchers, I think we could think about, for example...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u464	Tourism can be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u465	But tourism in another context. In a global context, not a localist. As far as repetitives are concerned, there is no way of accepting a ministerial decision, which says that the Minister will decide on the repetitions. It is a social problem that we all have to take responsibility together. I have explained to you what the technical problems are, what the main problems are, because there are also constitutional issues, and on this basis we shall proceed, if you wish, if not we will see. Teaching, Mr. Prussakis, as you know, does not work since 2011. So don't say go to a tutor. In any case, if children are from the area around Alexandroupolis, it is good in the culture of children to go to Thessaloniki.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u466	What are you talking about? Do they have an excess of money right now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u467	But you know, let's put first what academic and pedagogical right and on this basis try to give them all the equipment to do it, not the other way around.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u468	Do you have the study to testify, read it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u469	The study will be submitted, but you know it's not there. Mr Mitafidis mentioned something that I think the whole House should say that it will be resolved in the next legislation. And that is to attributed citizenship to the children of people who were dragged to Auschwitz. We are not honoured as a society, we are not honoured as a Parliament, and we must see this immediately in the next bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u470	Mr. Georgiadis should be here to vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u471	Conscientiously.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u472	Everyone has the weight of their vote. We are all going to vote on it, and I think it will be by a huge majority. We have to get this. Mr. Tasoulas, trying to highlight the importance of the competition in Italy for Aristotle, told me to call our ambassador in Rome and congratulate him on helping in this process. It is indeed a very important process, but I will not take our ambassador to Rome. If I had started this kind of procedure, I would have taken the prison director to Pylon, taken the school manager to the women's prisons in Thebes, took the school manager to villages in Florinas, these thousands of teachers who kept the system in the leg and who rely on them for what we will do in the future and who we rely on for the thematic week, which we think will be a first-time week in schools, where they will discuss all these issues that are to be discussed and that will bring the school alive, a small step but important step. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u473	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-five students and schoolchildren and two educational attendants from the 1st Elassona Larissa General School (Second Chamber). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Katsaniotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u474	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'm not going to introductorys. We've been through this too many times. In any case, colleagues are also in a hurry to speak. I will say two - three things very specifically, because I have heard about localism, I have heard about who is interested in or who is talking about his region, and that education cannot proceed with such a type of localistic perception. I would like to ask you and, indeed, tell me this: Patra has three universities. The Open University has its seat there, it has the historic university of the city, it has the TEI, which is very powerful, it has one, if you want, very large research community, it has the technology park, IEHMH, the bow that surpasses the Region of Western Greece and it is Epirus, it is Arta, it is Agrinio, it is Pyrgos, it is Kalamata. There it was designed, after a very large consultation, the Centre for Research and Innovation in Western Greece which, I say again, went beyond the Region of Western Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u475	He was legislated.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u476	He was legislated. And not only was it, Mr. Philie, but there was also a presidential decree within the law and there was approval of the State General Accounting Office. It was one of the five institutions, which is now being abolished. In my question to the Secretary-General on 10 June here - there is in the Minutes - he told us that this will not be abolished, that a President-in-Office of the Council is needed, that there is no way it will be abolished, and then I said that in the Minister's way of doing so, with the delay that the Minister is doing, this research and innovation centre, which had three institutes, will never happen. And today I am confirmed. And then I was saying. What does HELL have to do with IHIM in Patras, say that funding should become regional and suddenly have a technological park and an institute belonging to HETH? Or it probably doesn't exactly belong. You know, he's put a man on the board of directors, and the representative of FORTH in the House's committee told us that HELL will see whether it's interesting will come in and if it's interesting it will come in. He has already taken some shares, and HELL will have control of the technological park. So it's localism, saying regional development in research and innovation is necessary for the country to go forward? Will we agree that the Athenian-centric policies have a great responsibility for the situation in which we are in, at the same time as the division perhaps? But here we're talking about something else.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u477	And the client state.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u478	Of course. I imagine you've broken it up for the last two years!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u479	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u480	If we look at the cameras here, you've broken up the client state! You're two years of government, you'll tell us what you've done against him. You'll tell us from here...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u481	Tell me a photographic layout.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u482	I'm telling you again, they've heard here not one but five.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u483	Article 14.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u484	Article 14. What my colleague says.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u485	Now we're saying another thing, you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u486	Mr Minister, you will tell me that appointments everywhere in the field of responsibility are made a merit. Does anyone in Greece believe that at the time of SYRIZA they become merital? No one believes it, Minister. Let's go to the second because we have the second, the TEIs in transition. Three times since the Minister's workload, it was not possible to have a debate on the timely question. I hope we have it on Monday. But because we have raised issues of localism, I would like to say that the Western Greek TEI, the TEI of Patras, has three parts in transition. Visual Optometry, Accounting, Tourist Professions. The meeting of the Presidents has proposed that you remain open. It has no financial cost. The previous Undersecretary had declared that they would remain open and enter the computer now. Because if they don't get into the computer, what's actually gonna happen? Tell people to know and make a commitment that's true. The next one is the Open University. I just heard there's going to be a special law on the Open University. This is very important. It's about a lot of people. It's an institution of great interest. But I do not understand why responsibility should be transferred from the counties to the administration.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u487	Where were they transferred? There's no such thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u488	She's retired?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u489	Not there, but that's not it. You don't read it right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u490	I think that's it, but if it's something else, you'll tell us what it is. You'll tell us what it is, because if the law comes, there's no reason to do it. Why is there study? After the Open University Act comes, we can talk about this there. What you have to tell us is whether the applications we have for the Open University are more or less than those that are being proclaimed. Because if the applications are less than the seats that exist at the Open University, then the draw is not abolished because you want it. The draw is abolished because there are no interested parties. If that's what you've done, really, you're gonna have to tell us how you did it. Because the draw had to do with the fact that there were too many people who wanted to get in, and now, unfortunately, they don't exist. So there was no need for a draw law, because the previous law provided that if the seats were fewer, no need for a draw. You only did it for communication reasons. What is left and where for me is what we should see at the end, is what a colleague said, that we now have in ideological education, that the left should leave her print on education as the left. I'm guessing he doesn't mean by the left mark the reduction of the Ancient Greeks, because that's probably it. I guess he doesn't mean the alteration of the Religiouss, because that's it. I imagine he doesn't mean that the Ancient Greeks don't need and that the Ancient Greeks are a dead language. I'd like to remind you of one thing and that thing protects us. Mr. Tsipras has said it's every word of the Constitution. Let me remind you that the Constitution sets the fundamental objectives of the education and development of national and religious conscience. So the left print won't exist. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u491	Madam President, may I have the floor for thirty seconds?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u492	Of course, Minister. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u493	I want to make a clarification on the subject of computers and TEIs. We will not resolve issues that are not resolved here in Parliament. Indeed, for the first time I think, we have asked for the meeting of the TEI Presidents to study the subject themselves and bring us a decision of their own, documented, which they think should be the sections that will go into the computer this year from the nineteen that they were not. The meeting of the presidents has done an excellent job. He has brought us a proposition. We don't want to make it public. Because in the week that comes, we have a meeting with the presidents of the TEIs, to discuss with them and make joint decisions. I am very pleased that such a documented proposal has come, to which we do not have any serious objections on the substance. That's what I think I can say here. I hope at the end of the week, the presidents of the TEIs themselves together with us will announce what you request, whether these departments or others will be. I just wanted to clarify it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u494	Mrs Chryssoula Katsavria - Siropoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u495	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I will focus on two very important innovations, which this bill introduces. It is beyond doubt that the possession of at least one foreign language knowledge title is, for many years, an essential qualification both for studies and for access to a number of jobs. It is also true that the structure of foreign-language education is governed by an anachronistic framework, with the main feature of the inability of public education to respond to modern demands on the one hand to the bleeding of popular incomes on the other. This draft attempts to introduce a substantial innovation in foreign-language education by the State Certificate of Language and its reliable and successful operation to date. The introduction of the electronic exams institution also makes the state system for the certification of foreign languages more reliable and competitive with regard to foreign systems. Most importantly, however, it is the Ministry of Education's political will to strengthen the learning of foreign languages at school, in order to enable pupils to reach the end of compulsory education at level B1 in the first foreign language and at level A1 in the second foreign language. It is easy to understand the benefit to the learner in terms of time and family in terms of cost. I now come to the arrangements introduced by this bill for the National Library of Greece and for public libraries. Libraries form an integral part of the basic infrastructure for knowledge, learning and culture in a country. In our country along with the National Library and the Library of the Parliament, there are a number of libraries which are addressed either to a particular audience - students, teachers, researchers and others - either to the general public and the citizens of a city or region with public, municipal, Community libraries, children's libraries, libraries of cultural and scientific societies and others. However, despite the existence of libraries throughout the country, there has so far been no consistent rational and comprehensive national policy on their overall visa and on the individual categories of libraries. The number of libraries mentioned above is also subject to, and is supervised or financed by, a similar large number of governmental and other bodies, ministries, municipalities, legal entities governed by public law and many others, each of which completely ignores the policy of others. The arrangements of this bill confirm the firm political will of our Government for a modern and effective policy in the field of libraries and books. This is, in fact, a second step on the road map of a national libraries policy. The first step was the establishment of the General Council of Librarys, recently set up within the Ministry of Education. The creation of the national libraries network opens the way for the creation of individual legislation in the framework of a law on all categories of libraries and the creation of synergies, which will ensure the provision of library services throughout the country and throughout its population. The dissemination of knowledge and information, the encouragement of horizontal cooperation between libraries and the introduction of innovative methods of developing services and programmes which each library could not monitor itself, are the aim of creating the national libraries network, the top of which can be our National Library. The fact is that the National Library has been facing many years - decades I could say - very serious problems. It is a happy juncture that its transformation into the Centre for Culture "Stavros Niarchos Foundation" soon coincides with the launch of the resolution of these problems. The National Library enters a new phase of modernisation and is equipped with the necessary tools to meet its new demanding role. The prospect is that the services of all libraries participating in the network of Greek libraries can be harmonized with international standards and good international practices. This, of course, also involves the achievement of economies of scale, as well as the encouragement of creative synergies with the Library and Architecture Departments of higher education institutions, the Association of Greek Librarians and Information Sciences and all kinds of research centres. A new institutional framework and such structure and organisation of libraries such as the one we are trying to do, leads to the next steps of the roadmap, which is to exploit the book and the institution of libraries as a tool for education, training, education and lifelong learning, to exploit digital developments and to adopt new technologies, to develop modern and more libraries across the country, and especially where there are no ones, to exploit the scientific potential that possesses skills around the book and to strengthen the editorial activity in the fields of production, movement and promotion of the book. I would like here, Minister, to emphasise the need to develop the General Council of Librarys as an interministerial body, which will set up a single libraries policy as a whole in order to create a common strategy, savings of resources and avoid duplication of actions. I propose that we draw up a draft law as a follow-up to today, which concerns the individual categories of libraries - school, municipal, research, academic and others - for a single system of libraries adapted to modern needs and requirements. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sure that today the people of libraries and books, which I come from, can fairly be satisfied with the regulations that we are promoting in this bill and not just. The education and training of the Greeks, especially the new generation, also requires a national policy on books, libraries and philanthropy. This presupposes the necessary resources and a movement of knowledge and education to enforce and support it. A national book and libraries policy can make a significant contribution to the economic and social development of our country, much more so now that it is still shaken by the long-standing crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u496	Thank you. Mr. Emmanoulidis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u497	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, one year has passed since Kyriakos Mitsotakis took over the leadership of the New Democracy, the man with the three degrees, the man who found that eventually Montesquier and Russo is one and this, the man who acts politically as a spoiled child, who when they take the game, shouts out without a word of opposition. He also found an excellent speaker, a gravely malicious, the word of Adonid, who often lacks political reproach from his statements. Because if we interpret what was said yesterday correctly, they are touching the limits - I would say - not of political inappropriateness but of undermining yet - that country itself: 'Do not close the assessment, fall the government, go to elections'. This is the permanent inclination of your political opposition. And while that is what you say in open-speaking microphones, which is nothing but negligence of your political propaganda, at the same time in the committees we see a different speech being made, a reason for fundamental responsibility. And this can only be noted in the process during this committee, when, seriously, with anguish, I would say, we approached an article to an article in the whole of this legislation, which in no way has what we would say at first reading, an 'organisationality', but it is deeply blamed on the needs of healing weaknesses and wounds of the educational system. I would like to say for the record, because time is limited, some of the arrangements made by this bill. The first chapter contained in Articles 1, 2 and 3 provides for the settlement of subjects from the State Language Certificate, in accordance with the principles governing the common European language reference framework. The draft law improves the operating conditions of the examinations carried out by establishing electronic examinations. In addition, the e-learning centre is free to support the individual preparation of candidates, thus underlining the social sensitivity shown by the government. The second chapter refers to the regulation of the themes of the National Library. Under Articles 4, 5 and 6, the issues of the orderly functioning of the National Library are regulated, due to its relocation to the new infrastructures of the Centre for Culture "Association of Stavros Niarchos". Particular emphasis is placed on ensuring that the National Library is the depositary of the entire spiritual depository and the ark of a unique riches, in which the course of Greek thought and history through the centuries is recorded. A special interest is the article in which the National Library undertakes coordination for the development of the national library network, a national network that is the strip of spiritual richness in the landslides of the territory. The third chapter of the bill regulates primary and secondary education issues relating to pupils and students and the proper functioning of school units. In addition, educational subjects such as pre-service recognition are regulated after being appointed by a free profession or a dependent job. With a number of provisions, there are loose ends which make it difficult to run school units, such as school excursions, with the transfer of responsibility from the Ministry to the regions and the possibility of not counting absences from the courses up to two weeks for students and students with excellent performance in the arts. And many other individual problems are eventually regulated and faced with pathogens, which have existed to this day. The fact that it is in the form of an emergency, I think that it is easy to answer, because it is a pressing time for the Ministry to give a reply to problems that do not go undone. I will come back from where I started, to say that according to the phrase of your former leader, 'whis wing ends, evil of his head', apparently referring to the obsessive demand for early elections. And say it differently? The people say, "Don't scratch on the cup of chop. Soap in our case is the Greek people. I close with a few lyrics from Anagnostakis: "What you didn't betray to tell me. You and your own years and years, one by one of your belongings selling out on the international markets and the popular markets, and you stay out of sight, so you can see, without your ears, with your sealed mouths and don't speak. For what human sanctity do you forsake us?’ Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u498	Thank you. Mr Gatis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u499	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the geostrategic advantage of the Dodecanese lies in our political tradition, in the development prospects of society, in education, in the acquisition of innovative knowledge. It is also involved in the educational and research networks developed in our region, in the modern teaching and research challenges of the 20th first century, which will use the comparative advantages of geographical location and infrastructure with the demands of the region's economy and society. In this context, any attempt to improve the educational process on our islands should lead to support for educational structures, focusing on existing know-how and the experience of schools operating in our region. In this spirit, we welcome the expressed political will of the Minister of Education, to take an initiative leading to the upgrading of ASTER - it is a higher school of tourist professions in Rhodes, a similar one we have in Crete - and to the upgraded reopening of the section of the tours. Conditions change, requirements are intense and increased. The upgrading of these schools is therefore a very crucial element in meeting the demands of tourist society nowadays. But it seems to us that, just now, some of this step by the New Democracy factor, in particular, was moving our hand, because in two years' time, we have not made sure that these schools are replaced and restored, which they themselves have created with their own policy for so many years. It also gives us impression that within this spirit they forget to tell us that in a communication cress in 2014, that is just before they left power, they made promises that they would create foreign languages at the University of the Aegean. And when we told them who would pay, they said 'the foreigners'. When we asked them who foreigners are, where there was a problem from the European Union and the European Union said that the citizens of the European Union are not foreigners and they should have the same treatment that Greek students have, so they should not pay to the universities, that was where it was taken back. And that's not what we're saying. However, the regulation, Mr Minister, of Article 11, which defines as the minimum number of pupils in special schools, I fear that it will cause problems in special schools and schools, in vocational schools and in special vocational education and training workshops, sooner or later. Of course, if the expressed view, the political will and commitment of the Secretary of State for Education, Mr Baxvanakis, that no special school will be closed, no child in need of special treatment will be deprived of the opportunity to train anywhere from the most mountainous region to the smaller island, it covers politically these conditions in Article 11. But, Minister, this political will remains to be regulated at the moment as a refusal by the Ministry to legislate. Only by legislating to enable the Minister of Education or the regional director, in agreement with the lower levels of education - for example the regional director - to set up departments in exceptional cases with fewer than three pupils, i.e. without a numerical restriction, in special schools in the island and mountainous region. Minister, you don't take care of me, but it's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u500	He wants to hear Mr. Gatis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u501	Minister, you are opposed by a Member of the Co-population and I think we should pay more attention to that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u502	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u503	Yeah, but I did a whole speech and I don't know what you heard. Finally, the recital is that you have the opportunity to shield the ability to educate children with special features against any conservative perception that may appear today or tomorrow. I, as an Isle of SYRIZA's MEP, do not feel proud and ask you to improve this provision of Article 11, that is to say, the political responsibility and the legislative capacity to legislate, as I said above, and parts with fewer than three students where exceptionally and marginally required. It is also a constitutional obligation arising from Article 101(4) of the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u504	Thank you, Mr Gaki, for the time. Mr. Sevastakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u505	Today I heard one of the most interesting speeches on the part of the New Democracy, that of Mr Javara. She was intelligent, as always, and structured, as always. But he said something, which I think shows a weakness in the conception of the problem. The crisis, he said, has references to education and culture, while in reality the crisis is structured on certain perceptions, that is to say, certain features that we would look for in the way we hire, interpret and see the world. In other words, the crisis is structured on a system of values organized by the political system in Greece, which seems to have distorted the way the citizen understands himself and the way he organised the economy of this country. This kind of significance is enough to have contradictions, it is enough to organise this great political test that we are all going through as a country and as a people and as a political system and as parties and as a worldview. Many Members have focused their criticism on the fact that the bill has, in a way, a collective character. The field of education is, in any case, a wide range of fields, starting with work, from the work spheres, and ending up with purely spiritual ones. That is, it is related to people who work, who pay, it is related to structures, it is related to purely spiritual problems. It is a multifaceted structure, which often has inconsistencies, discords, and any legacy that tries to be associated with so many fields, is necessarily of a collusional nature. In other words, it is the same thing as the legislation which deals with the educational system, because it is multi-faceted and multi-focal. In fact, part of the discussions that are taking place on educational issues is limited to matters relating to occupational identities, relationships and labour law. So, necessarily, every piece of legislation - we have seen it in too many cases - has this fragmentary character. What is this piece of legislation trying to answer, as I think others in the previous period? It is trying to respond to a new completely different phase in both the country and the educational demand. That is, extensive education - to be educated all - which was a very serious post-war experiment and was linked to the type of development of the country and the type of productive joint of the country, has closed its historical cycle. We are in a completely different phase, where not only because of the economic crisis but also because of the crisis, of visas and interpretations, we must draw up a new educational protocol. This must be done in a careful, democratic and inspired way to exploit these new features of new education, new intelligence, so the new school. In the debate on education held in the Committee on Morphics, which will develop by broadening the audience of bodies in the next period, the following topics are raised: I have a type of student who learns in a completely new way, a student who can multifocally take knowledge, not just the one-focal knowledge of the book, not just the one-focal word of the teacher, but a multi-faceted knowledge that comes through many cross-referenced sources. So connecting these fields is interesting. That is what we are asking today. It is not like one said: "The Ancient Greeks have reduced them, and so this is a kind of, say, the theory defect of the Left". The problem is not the ages of the language but the formation of a language sense. So the problem is to connect and see how the language is understood and with which you can be helped to understand both yourself and the moralist system that composes you and through which you operate, to understand the way you address, love and socialize. So interconnecting the ages of the language is a very serious experiment. That is why I disagreed with the interpretative shape Nikos Philis had previously used, that the Ancient Greeks could not be taught more hours than the New Greeks. It's not a matter of hours. It's a matter of depth and interconnection. So this guy, who I think makes up the new student, the new teacher and the new question system, is the substrate on which this legislation is founded. I think that the democratic attitude to pick up on your political opponent's ideas and suggestions also shows that there is no insecurity in the way we see today's education. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Let me just remind you, using the example of Mrs Kefalidou for the Drama Music School, that two years ago music schools were in a huge insecurity. It was the first year that we have been going through since last year, which had specialities and buses to move in time, and therefore we had no waste of cognitive, teaching workers. I consider this to be a sign of an improvement. The last thing I'd like to say is, I'd like, after you've made this scepticism of the schools in Ioannina, to suggest that you see the scepticism of the schools...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u506	Samo.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u507	That's right! I suggest you see the stepping-up of the bright sections of Samos. Since everyone has used the paradox of their country, I too must describe what is happening at the Multilateral University of the Aegean - otherwise we all say the same - that was able to make the spatial weakness, that is, multi-currency, an advantage. With these considerations, I think that the bill should also be strengthened by our vote, as I think it will happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u508	Thank you. Mr. Friends has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u509	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, a colleague of the Officerial Representation reminded us that the Prime Minister at the first meeting we held as the left-wing government here in Parliament, had said that our government is every word of the Constitution. And even though much has happened since then, we have had the pride and the political choice to repeat, that yes we are every word of the Constitution. And that's not what we're talking about. We're talking about education. Article 16(2). "Education is a basic task of the state and aims at the moral, spiritual, professional and physical education of the Greeks, the development of national and religious consciences and their modulation to free and responsible citizens". The final phrase is also a command, it contains all and interprets all the above mentioned in the article of the Constitution. The spread of citizens to free and responsible citizens. Does the Constitution for Education say anything that we must go ahead with competition among citizens, that we must privatise the right to education, that we must promote religiousism, nationalism, xenophobia, antiquity? No, none of this. What he says and interprets them is 'the spread of citizens to free and responsible citizens'. It is a pity, when some attempt to make a selective reference to the article of the Constitution only in the "national and religious conscience" and to shrink and alter the concept of national and religious conscience. We're stressing it. That is the sign of the ideological, the left, to which we refer. It is a sign of a quality and equality education. In circumstances of difficult financial coercive, we are also forced to promote every word of the Constitution on education and first to upgrade with public school projects, which the previous governments of old-fashioned communism have repudiated with redundancies and a total defamation of what is public. Upgrading public school means firstly good and good management of resources, human resources, as well as all the resources of the school, the educational system. We have achieved this year after many years with much less money and with pressure for more subservient recruitment, due to the phenomenon of undetermined education and the rest of the public sector due to the memoranda. We managed schools to run from the first day with all teachers, with books, with all the educational conditions necessary to upgrade the consciousness of the world, the citizens and the schools. And it is no coincidence that this conscience that public school is being upgraded is also impressed by the various public opinion surveys. For example, I have in front of me - and I say this - the six-month trends of MRB, the half-yearly trends of public opinion in 2015-2016 compared to 2014, with the debris left to us by the PASOK - New Democracy and, in general, the governments of the Memorandum triumphs. In 2015 and 2016, with SYRIZA governments and in difficult conditions and in the midst of many illusions and backwards, we managed to raise the prestige of public education to the consciousness of Greek citizens. And this battle that is a battle of national importance, which is a battle of democratic order, which is a battle that effectively incorporates our country into the European framework, we have to fight this battle against the sirens that tell us that the public school is falling apart and that it must all be done privately. This battle must be fought against those who do not want to increase spending on education, as we do cents, but want to put the coupons on education. In other words, they speak of multi-speed schools at the expense of public education. This battle must be fought against those who fought hysterically here in August against the bill on the history of private education. They fought hysterically - and I mean the New Democracy - which even canceled their historic route. It also canceled the Constitution, which was passed on their own initiative and enforced the supervision of the State in private education. And today we are completing this step of guaranteeing private education, the supervision of the State in private education, by setting up the service at the Ministry of Education for Private Education. Education, therefore, is not a market commodity but an element that creates personality and becomes free and responsible citizens. Good and good management, of course, requires something other than work, planning and daily targets. And that's where we run the tests, and we got it. It also requires a reform horizon, because the school as it is today has built it up and operates using all the resources. But there is also a need for major changes to which the Minister of Education referred. These changes are important and we have studied and planned them together earlier. I do not want to refer to all these changes but to two important elements. The first is special education, which was a forgotten service in the half-coast of education and concerned tens of thousands of children and families throughout Greece and which we in difficult budgetary conditions put at the centre of our educational policy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] For the first time, we have been implementing programmes for the co-ordination of school pupils with general education pupils. Break the ghettos! For the first time, we will adopt a ministerial decision on the functioning of the accession departments, with a view to modernising the way in which pupils need special educational interventions. We have founded hundreds of branches of integration. We founded a hundred and eighty special municipal schools. We founded high school and high school for children with disabilities. We did a lot of things! And in a perception of which we want to upgrade special treatment even more, we think since last year that there should be, since parents have interesting, full-day schools, especially primary schools for children with special needs. I could say other things. But I'm standing on a long request of the wheelchair movement. From tomorrow, after the bill was passed, the unacceptable exclusion of HEIs will cease from the possibility of taking tests at higher dance and dramatic art schools. This is what we can do, which strengthen the dignity of people with or without money. But I repeat, obeying the article of the Constitution on the formation of free and responsible citizens. We had planned other things to which the Ministry is currently moving. The Minister referred to the subject week. Unfortunately, the subject week, which has been very diligently scheduled by the Institute for Educational Policy, concerns the discussion at school of issues in which families are awkward, such as adolescence. I am talking about the issue of nutrition - as you know, child obesity in our country - the issue of addiction - cigarettes, drugs and tablets, electronic addiction and the issue of sexual information. These are major problems that the Greek family cannot deal with. What about school? And that can't be until we organize it. And we are concentrating them on this debate, which is of great importance, one week in May. We have heard reactions, some of the various radars representing the medieval climate in our country. We've been waiting for them. However, by other people who write and articles of the narcocultura who enter school with these things - and I mean by a history of 'Risospasti', for example - we did not expect it that way. So persistent is the forefront of social preservatives and reactionary perceptions within society, where it brings together so heterogeneous political and social forces? We heard OLEME. One answer which is 'no' because we are not ready, because we do not want to, because we cannot. Poor things. We knew teachers, teachers to be pioneers, to organise these opportunities first, to be forward rather than to create perceptions that they do not go forward and not only go forward, go in opposition to this notion of progressive reform at school. There are other changes in schools that have been launched and will be completed in time. It is - firstly - the lesson of the Religiouss that has changed since this year, the books that will be available next year, the training of teachers from this year. Secondly, it is the change in history’s programs and books. Thirdly, it is the change in the teaching of the language. I would not like to start the debate here too. And fourthly, it is the single teaching of natural sciences in high school. They are major changes in content that gives meaning to changes in the structure of the educational system. There are other issues, which I do not wish to mention, because time has gone on, but which I would just like to raise. The first is that many negative stereotypes and pathogens of the old-party system have emerged from the debate here. In one, the Minister rightly referred to it. Localism. I want to be clean. Localism is not just about one party, it's horizontal. It is about voting and, unfortunately, I repeat, it is horizontal. If we want to have a new beginning for our country in education, we need to get out of this temptation to vote. I just want to mention one clue. The history of minority education. I heard the general, Mr. Prussakis, who said a number of things. We don't change anything terrible and terrible. The Act on the Thessaloniki branch was passed in 2011 on Ms Diamantopoulou. That's what we're strengthening. And we don't send people to Alexandroupolis, because that means another two years of study. So to become a teacher in a minority school, you have to study six years. Nobody's going. Nobody's going! Four are the years of study. So at the Greek university in Thessaloniki, which has been in infrastructure and has been in operation since 2011, we have given the competence to go out for four-year-old teachers, teachers for minority schools. Let us stop there and not turn localism into a poisonous nationalism among us. Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard other things that are pathogens of old-fashionedism. The controversy between Athens, the state of Athens, and the province, the region. Are there inequality? Of course there are. Not like this. There are disparities that reflect political power in previous years regarding the different regions of the country. Prominent ministers who have made ruffles or made good political development choices in their areas, thousands appointed by specific prefectures in education and no - we know that these are not secret things - funds lost to establish elsewhere in university departments, to "accommodate" locally, namely voters, needs and then begin to close. Well, the big problem is not that, the Athenian state that devours the region. There are such sides. I'm not underestimating it at all. The main thing is the client state either here or in the province.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u510	Minister, please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u511	I shall conclude, Madam President. And we at the Ministry of Education have given samples that we haven't followed the pussy of old-fashioned communism. We did not make any change to the Directors General of the Ministry of Education - no change - and we had excellent cooperation with them. Secondly, we have not changed any heads of critical structures, such as DIOFANTOS and ETUC. No change. On the contrary, we strengthened the administrations we found on the basis of a plan for the public interest. Madam President, let me finish with just one mention. The debate that is taking place today in the ideological preamble to the Constitution is not just about education. It concerns all the efforts of the government to achieve the second assessment, to achieve it with respect to the Constitution, without prejudicing today the policy of other governments, with respect for the electoral option when the time comes, with respect for the idea that the policy that runs our societies is, on the one hand, the support of the social state and, on the other, neoliberalism. This political conflict, which, as you know and understand, has political parties from here and there, is forcing everyone to escape Pontius Pilate and to take a stand. Or, therefore, with the social state in a prospect of developing the country's economy and democratic progress, or of returning, to a returning extreme right-wing perception, which is increasingly gaining ground in the context of conservative forces, both in our country and in Europe. Because in front of us - you will soon see - we will not be dealing with the sheep of the New Democracy. We'll have to deal with Trump's 'lypsies'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u512	Thank you, Mr. Philly, but you've taken almost three times the year.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u513	Your tolerance, Madam President. He didn't take him on his own.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u514	It's a former Minister, Mr. Comrade. I made an intervention. What else can I do? To my tolerance, I admit it. Mr. Michelis has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u515	Seven minutes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u516	I'm usually as short as the time you give me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u517	The others will break him anyways as much as I can tell them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u518	Thanks for the urge to violate him, too. It seems, ladies and gentlemen, that the helmet that seemed to rise on Monday in the Committee on Social Affairs was overtaken today. So to remind us of an older politician's expression.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u519	The Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u520	I'm sorry, Morphics. He's categorised not because of fatigue, but because my initial assessment has been confirmed that we agree too much. Of course, my initial assessment has been confirmed that the opposition will seek to find a number of minor objections to it so that it can justify its vote. This is legitimate within the parliamentary framework. I would point out again that the complexity of education legislation, whether intentionally or ignorant, has been ignored. However, this has led to some mistaken estimates of many Members. I am not one of those who will say that Chapter III and Chapter IV did not have a stitching of individual legislation. I'm one of those who ask the rhetorical question. So for each of these regulations we have brought in, we should also have a separate draft law, which would say, absences - decisions on them - special treatment, etc.Huh? It's not possible. It is so complex and multi-teaching that the education legislation for those who have dealt with it and know it - like the other legislation - is so complex and multi-teaching that we should tolerate this and stand up to the essence of each proposal. Let me comment a little on certain specific articles that raise key issues. School cleaning. If I remember correctly in 2007 or 2008, the current President of the Republic, Mr Pavlopoulou, as Minister of the Interior at the time, permanently established the cleaners, those who had a specific overall service time, which in total were not sufficient to clean up the schools. And we have come up with two different arrangements for working relations. To those permanently joined the municipalities, and to the conventions that we are now giving to them. Rhetorical question again. Is there a proposal for them? Shouldn't we make an extension? Should we legitimize them? Can the institutions do this today? I said in my first speech that this is a crucial issue that needs to be resolved radically and finally in that direction. Therefore commenting that you bring handcuffs for cleaners, etc., do not stand. [[Z' Vice-President of Parliament Ms GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS]] Second matter. In 2004 - and here I will raise a problem with some colleagues - the Olympic education workers and volunteers at the Olympic Physical Education Teachers were more than four thousand. Mrs Giannakou was committed at that time - I do not judge whether it was right or not, but it did not depend on the needs of school gymnasts - to appoint them. Those of us who were training officials at the time, tried to see how we could distribute them and always overtake them. Now we have an opportunity to take advantage of these colleagues in the sports, swimming, etc., and instead of being in their school as overnumbers, to be at the next gym. In fact, I made an intervention when we were discussing it, to go entirely to make the programmes more flexible. There is a view - and I heard it - that says not to go there, because we are chasing them, suffering them, and so on.Huh? I don't think that's the point of view. Third matter. Private education under persecution. Why? In the summer we were told Bolsheviks that we are Sovietizing it and so on, because the Ministry of Education simply returned as the responsible for controlling its operation, with regard to the Ministry of Labour, Trade Department, which Mr Arvanitopoulos had done. And where did we come back? We returned to the bills of Ms Giannakou and Ms Diamantopoulou, on the basis of which the school director controlled the schools if they adhere to the timetable, if they stick to the curriculum, if the person who teaches Physics is natural, if the teacher teaches mathematics is mathematical, i.e. if they operate like schools. I do not understand the so-called flexibility and autonomy of vocational education. Of course I understand why they're bothered by the application of myschool. Because that is where the number of students and the number of teachers is recorded, and they are the only companies, in their view, who can neither hide nor tax. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm finishing up with a few points of view. I was amazed at what I heard from Mr. Tasoula. I read it, as he said: "Education has been the first victim of post-population." Mercy, ladies. That leaves the suggestion that, fortunately, we had the dictatorship and we had a education of ethnicity, etc. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] There wasn't the first victim. Under the movement, then the anti-digit struggle took place reforms that I number them for you. Law 309/76, reintroduction of the Papanoutsu reform by right-wing Mr. Rallie, who restored primary school as an official language. Law 1566/1985 - and I stop with them - language in primary. Look, we're full of archaeologists who aren't archaeologists. I'll mention three great intellectuals. Basil Bernstein, Pierre Burdier, Chomsky. All three say that when school doesn't teach the language the student speaks to his neighborhood at home, he leads him out of it. When they were teaching the ancient Greek language as a language of primary school...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u521	And close, Mr. Michalis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u522	I'm hanging up with this. In the early 1920s, the ancient Greek language and the strict archaic as a language of primary school, illiteracy was 90%. There have been struggles to establish the primary language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u523	The rapporteur for the New Democracy has the floor for her dentistry, Mrs Kerameo. Here you go, Mrs. Kerameau.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u524	Thank you, Mr President. I will make a quick overview of the articles, because we have not taken a position so far and I will close with three comments and those that have been heard lately. As we have already said, we are positive about the articles on the State Language Certificate and the libraries 1 to 6. We are, unfortunately, negative on Article 7, because the Minister did not satisfy our request to break this article, in order to be able to vote on the provisions on the single number of students, on the permission for excellent students to travel for artistic events, on the article on the relocations of students, because that is exactly where you have the arrangements for school tours, where you say - at least for now - that all the powers go to the Minister. I was impressed by a revulsion of Mr. Friend's speech, which referred to the pioneer teachers who must be ahead. Alas, if they're pioneers and you don't even trust them to organize a school trip. Well, we are voting 'no' in Article 7, just because you have not broken the article because of this provision. In Article 8, we are voting positively on the cleaning of school units but we need to find a solution to this problem once. The House cannot enter this process every three and a little on this matter. In special treatment we vote positively but as you have seen at the meeting of the bodies, the problems are very serious and we must at some point see them together in order to find a solution. In Article 14, we are negative on minority education issues. In Article 16, on the issues of the General Secretariat for Lifelong Learning and New Generation, because the Minister accepted our proposal to represent the relevant body on a case-by-case basis, we will vote in favour. In Article 18, a recommendation from the National Education and Development Council which replaces the NSP, we are negative. Mr Minister, you referred previously to the ESS. Let me say, for the record, that the ESS was working until January 2015, that the Minister of Education of the SYRIZA immediately asked for the resignations of the members of the SYRIZA, that the SYRIZA Government did not appoint representatives to the SYRIZA for two years, and that is why this body was inactive. And with regard to the members you have now defined, our crisis is clear, our criticism is clear. It is not acceptable for us to have a direct or indirect relationship with the government in a broad sense. Article 19. Setting-up of S.H.I. themes. We are positive, following the acceptance of our proposal to add the clinical work to the work of academic scholars. Article 20. S.H.I.E. issues. We are, clearly, negative. They also contain provisions allowing the university's administrative staff to take over EIB positions. We have sounded the alarm that this will lead to very serious operational problems with regard to university administration. It also remains the provision for members of educational staff who will become teachers with a request at the TEI. That is what we think is in the wrong direction. We are therefore voting against Article 20. Article 22. National School of Public Health we're positive. But, Minister, open procedures should be provided for. It is not the House, in the year 2017, to vote for closed procedures. Article 23. For the NSRF, we are negative, mainly because of the establishment of the NSRF for the operation of a publishing house in the institution. Article 26. University of the Aegean and University of Piraeus. We are positive, given the subject of studies, tourist studies, and the country's emphasis on this sector. Article 27. Polytechnic School of Ioannina. We are positive because this is not a new school. It is a umbrella granted for reasons of professional rights. Article 34. Arrangements for intra-university examinations in general high school. We are negative, because there we are talking again about this '9.5' average, which we clearly consider to be a big mistake by the SYRIZA Government. As far as the amendments are concerned. Two amendments from what I understand will be accepted by the Minister. We are voting against the river amendment because we believe that it restricts this provision to some extent. But it is again a matter of limiting the self-employed of universities, since the relocation of teachers to the HEIs of Attica and Thessaloniki by S.A. based in other counties is mentioned again. It's not Parliament's business. That's why there's a self-help.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u525	It's in no other way.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u526	I've seen it. It is still the same arrangement, it is simply limited. If you want to talk about it then. As far as the amendment on minority education with Thrace is concerned, we are negative because we regard it again as insulting the self-employed of the universities. You will allow me, Mr President, to make three comments on some of the points mentioned earlier. Mr Philly, with all due respect on your face - and I really have respect - it is the least provocative that you speak as a representative of the ruling majority for the Memorandum Governments of New Democracy. You, SYRIZA, who said that he would abolish by a law and by an article in the memorandum, which voted for the third most prestigious memorandum, which led to nine billion meters, to the assignment of almost all of the public property to the lenders, to the establishment of the "cutter" and, unfortunately, we do not have an end in the third supplementary memorandum, in discussions now on a fourth memorandum with all of Europe, to discuss Grexit. Mr Philly, the least you could do is stand back and do not speak to the Greek people about the governments of the Memorandum when you have led the country where you have led it, today when all Europe is again discussing the Grexit of Greece. It is, in fact, disgraceful and the citizens who are watching us can judge it. Second comment. This afternoon, I would say that something spectacular happened here in the House. While, on Monday, the rapporteur for the Independent Greeks, Mr Katsikis, the provision on citizenship, came to Parliament here beforehand and said again that he is suddenly voting against the provision, Mr Kourakis, - I do not know what, as far as I know, he is a member of SYRIZA - he said that, as far as he knows, what the rapporteur of the ANELs has just said is true, what he says and that the information he has, will not ultimately be voted against by the ANELs. In the last few hours there have been various online articles entitled...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u527	I would ask you, Mrs. Hornman, to complete this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u528	Mr President, Mr Philis spoke for seventeen minutes. You'll allow me to close. A lot of things have been said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u529	I beg your pardon very much, we will not now compare the positions of another President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u530	I'll finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u531	I took over a moment ago and try to manage the time to the limits we have set.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u532	Mr President, please allow me to conclude.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u533	Don't shout. Why are you shouting? I'm not addressing you. I beg you - I think it is polite - to be brief. You said you had three comments to make. One you did, finish the second, go to the third to close.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u534	In the last few hours, therefore, the Internet has articles titled "ANEL and the theory of parliamentary chaos". And, indeed, I think this is what this is about, because we have not finally understood what Mr Papachristopoulos told us. Has Mr. Katsiki resigned from rapporteur? I would ask the Bureau to inform us if a letter has been sent by ANELs, which will inform us who the new rapporteur for ANELs is. Who's going to vote for the ANELs? Is there a letter informing us of who the rapporteur of ANELs is, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u535	Mrs. Keramea...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u536	Is there? I'm asking. I ask if there is, to know who will vote. It's important, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u537	Will you let me answer you?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u538	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u539	There is no relevant document for a change of a special speaker tabled to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u540	So who's going to vote?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u541	Where appropriate, the Parliamentary Representative. The Group of the European People's Party will choose this itself. Mr Papachristopoulos, who is a parliamentary representative, is present.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u542	The vote shall be taken by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u543	Excuse me, now you raise a point of order who will be present, whether it will be the special speaker or the rapporteur or the parliamentary representative, in the vote of each parliamentary group? Please very much. Please go a long way to the third point you want to make and to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u544	There are class issues and these are of the utmost importance. I would also remind you that the ANLLs had voted against this provision and are now suddenly voting on it, because it is a legislative improvement in relation to the previous provision. And I'm asking. What changed since the same provision was passed? Is it just the need to stay in power? And I close with the last comment on the procedure. Unfortunately, Mr Minister, the procedure was unacceptable. We have stressed this many times. Previously you told us that the bill included other emergency arrangements, five, six, seven, eight, nine. There has been no consultation, you have not allowed the vote to take place on the Rule. But I will say this, because political culture - and I am closing down, Mr President - requires that we be fair. Minister, I will say that you are honoured first of all that you have not accepted any ministerial amendments. Let's say that. This is a victory for the parliamentary process and we must welcome it. As also, it honours you that you have accepted - and it is a fact - many remarks, at least in the New Democracy, but I think other parties too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u545	The reason is the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Delis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u546	Mr President, I too have asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u547	Look, I found a registered series of rapporteurs and special speakers. Mrs. Kerameau was the first to be Mr. Delis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u548	Mr President, let the honourable Member speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u549	If there's any problem, we can propose you. It's not a matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u550	No, Mr. President. It's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u551	The reason is the special speaker of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr Dimitrios Konstantopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u552	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would say that the procedure that is the result of the urgency, for which, of course, we are still not convinced. In any case, however, the following was established in the present procedure. Education and interventions in education require dialogue, consultation, composition. This infamous dialogue over many days that we have been discussing has turned into a monologue of regulations and interventions by the government without tactics and strategies. This is where I'm wondering. Is it accidental that within twenty-four months of three heads of the Ministry of Education have undertaken to implement the government's non-existent, grand plan for education and education? In other words, two years, three ministers of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL. The conclusions are yours, then. We, however, seek to be close to dialogue and to be essentially in dialogue with our interventions, to contribute to clarifying the arrangements that are clipboarded in this draft law. But for its part, the Ministry's leadership must also have ears. We want to hope that this process will not be repeated. And I'm coming to S.H.I.E.L.D. I feel the need to restore the functioning of the ESS, which, up to now, has provided important advisory work to the political leaderships of the Ministry of Education. You degraded it as an opposition and abolished it as a government. Gentlemen of the Government, education requires national understanding, requires a national strategy. Education is thus an added value in each country's production and development. Otherwise, we perpetuate pathogens and strangles that are weights for the new generation. Lords of Government, Ministers, your tactics are deadlock. We are talking, too, about legislation. We're having a dialogue and you've already made a decision. That is why we have said from the outset that this dialogue is a pretext. As far as the amendment is concerned, Mr Minister, we expected you to accept it for the repetitive examinations. You in your answer punish your students, punish their parents too. They cannot be punished, Minister, because the students are sick and excluded from the examinations and say to them 'Come after a year to give all the lessons from the beginning again'. It's a huge psychological and financial cost. Come for a moment to the position of these students. So let the high school debate evolve. But I would say that this debate will have to find us all in agreement. And he'll get us a deal when we say what we mean and what we're doing. Consider yourself, then, by the Democratic Partnership, which is in this dialogue and is to offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u553	Thank you, Mr. Constantopoulos. The reason is the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Delis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u554	Thank you, Mr President. We have already heard Mr. Friend speaking a lot of talk here. I don't know if you forgot, Mr. Friend, but we want to remind you that since the 15th of August 2015 you have been every word of the memorandum. As for the assessment you are struggling for and even want to make this anguish of the Greek people, not only you but all the parties you voted for the memorandum, you will not succeed. Because the people have bitter experience of your evaluations, which are always accompanied by heavy packages of anti-grass measures. And you know very well what comes with this evaluation. There has been a lot of talk in today's debate. I listened with interest to the ministerial talks, where they opened the whole range of restructurings, quoted them by the Minister and the Undersecretary, even addressing a consensual call to the other urban parties and saying "we can find them in the upgrading of high school, the introduction system, the evaluation". We agree with you that you can find them, because you have a common strategy and the obstacles that exist, it is not difficult to overcome. As for the debate here where a number of SYRIZA Members are developing to defend public education by using special treatment, in which your own government introduces privatisation into special schools with the possibility - not to say the obligation, coercive - parents to pay for their own assistant and special scientific staff, I think that goes through every limit. Because that's what you're going through now, that's what you're going to vote on. Introduction privatization in the public special schools in Article 11. This whole debate as developed by the ministerial, in particular, talks and as reflected in the main conclusions of the debate on education, I would say that it is buttoned with the twelfth that came out two to three days ago by the Association of Greek Industrialists, who you know, is very interested in the education of the children of the Greek people, for their own reasons. And he opens everything and BSE. The structure also speaks of administration and funding, but mainly of content. And you know, Minister, what BSE says about content? It says that the course of Informatics, the lesson of Citizen's Education, should be strengthened, as capitalists perceive it with their own values, of course, the lesson of entrepreneurship. These are, therefore, you as advisors to the National Human Resources Development Council. So that we don't forget. I would like to make a comment on the subject week as well on the three aspects as they develop. Look, one could say that it is a hypocrisy, but I think it is a ruthless rage of a cruel reality to talk about proper nutrition to the children of the people, while thousands of them are undernourished, are not fed up properly, while you have taken the Biology course, you have reduced the course of Physical Education and, of course, we all know that sport is now an extremely expensive occupation. And we are, in fact, very curious, because Mr. Friends also threw us into the glove for the narcocult, to see what directions you will take to this issue, let us say the addiction of drugs, because, as far as we know, your government is in favour of legalising soft drugs. Or am I wrong? Is that the direction you're going to give? Is that your advancement? We're giving it to you. The JRC is across and against all the drugs, without separating them. With regard to the Committee on Education's Economics, which will be announced tomorrow by the Prime Minister, one could say here that 'whoever does not want to ferment forty days is sifting'. But I think things are a little more serious. Given the sub-funding of education, the Memorandum of Understanding, the Social Expenditure Cutter and the need for us finally to have a brave increase in funding, what are you doing? How do you answer that? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. You are recommending a committee - it says - experts, wise men, to study the matter. We have enough experience of such committees. I would remind you of the Committee on Insurance's Sages, which led to the well-known law - 'favorable'. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection followed it, and it also proposed the abolition of collective agreements, the liberalization of redundancies, of course, with a fairly specific wording. Now what will be the purpose of this committee that you are recommending, we very much fear that there will be the scientific wrapping up of the legalisation of sub-financing, which will also match the autonomy, which you all support, of the school unit, which is not, of course, confined to the choice of the content of the courses but extends to the economic function of the schools, and you write this very clearly.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u555	Finish, Mr. Delis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u556	I shall conclude, Mr President. In conclusion, I should like to say the following about the amendments. We tabled four amendments, Mr President. All four were rejected by the Minister, but we would like to be more honest. You cannot, Minister, say that the amendment is correct, but we cannot accept it. If it's right, accept it. Tell the truth. And what did this amendment say? The kids from September in high school to know when the intra-school exams are going to take place. Do you have it as a surprise, or every year, to change this, like this year to take it before the exams?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u557	Do you want them to be after the exams?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u558	We want this. We want it this year, Minister, to apply what the children have known since the beginning of the year.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u559	You raised this issue. So you want it to be next.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u560	Minister, don't interrupt. Leave, if you want, the closure to be placed. Mr. Delis, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u561	We shall now proceed to the second amendment, which you rejected. In the second amendment, the Minister came here with one argument, arguing that the JRC is interested in the children of rich families, because they - he says - will only be able to pay every year. Look, the children of rich families - of course it is a matter of whom you consider rich, because you, based on your own policy, can also consider the one who has more than 6,000 euros a year - the children of the truly rich, wealthy families will find it, Minister. They'll make it. They have ways. We want you to tell us what the children of the poor, the people's families, who, while going well in three lessons, will not go well in one. Why would you oblige them to return all four lessons from the beginning? Why spend another year paying care? For the third amendment you rejected. You're saying too much about special treatment. You know, special treatment isn't a game, it's not about anyone getting in there and doing a lesson. It should have basic scientific competence. So, Minister, if we have more than seven hundred teachers from these schools, and we have nothing to do with them - which, if we really want to, really, operate it properly - those who have no qualifications, anyway, nothing to do with special education, to throw them into special schools. We say in our amendment that those who work in special education should have the necessary formal qualifications, much more while thousands of children who have finished special education do not find work and stay unemployed. The last amendment you rejected is for the student's relocations. We want the Greek people to hear what you rejected. We called on your Government - and this you rejected - to have students registrars whose families have an income of up to 9,000 euros a year and to have students registrars from single parents, threeteen and multiple families. You rejected all this and we don't understand why. And then you talk about social criteria, Minister. We believe that the rejection of this amendment in particular marks your policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u562	The special speaker from the river, Mr Mavrotas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u563	Thank you very much, Mr President. I think today we should celebrate something. As long as I am a Member of Parliament, I think it may be the first bill that passes without any amendments, and I think that the Minister should be credited for that. I do not know if you have had any impacts or if it has happened, but it is indeed the first bill that passes without any amendments. It was all about the bill. I'm not going to enter the procedural part. I referred this morning to my prototype in the - let us say - the malfunctions that this way of legislating has with the urgency, which we do not have time to consult, which we corrected things that we have voted on, and which we will recorrect things that we can vote on today, precisely because we have not given the time necessary, to mature things, to be heard. We have expressed our agreements in the articles of the bill that have found us in agreement, such as the State Certificate of Language or the National Library. We have also expressed our objections and our disagreements and made our proposals. Some of them were accepted, some were not accepted. We shall therefore vote on several articles. I'm not going to go into detail now. We shall see them in the vote. But we will also vote against some, in which our disagreements are strong. I would also like to go through something said by the Parliamentary Representative of the ANELs when he said that it is a democratic right for each Member to vote consciously. I fully agree with what he says and agree with many of what he said. But last Tuesday, Mr Katsikis expressed his party when he voted negatively on Article 29 and it was not just his personal view, which will obviously have changed - I mean the extraterritorial view. Finally, I should like to end by saying this. I listened carefully to Mr Friend in what he said and, above all, where he was a plunder against the customer system. I would like to remind him here that we submitted a question from September to the Ministry, when it was the same Minister, to tell us how many posted teachers in parties, MPs, ministries, etc. She never answered that question. We cannot only be in the words against the client state. We must also be with our work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u564	Thank you, Mr. Mavrota. Would you like to intervene, Mr. Papachristopoulos?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u565	Half a word. I think I deserve it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u566	No, I'm not blaming you. I'll give you the floor. You just don't make any sense to me, or anyway you didn't ask me for the floor. Now you're asking him. I'd love to. After Mr Papachristopoulos, if there is another special speaker or parliamentary representative who wants to intervene, tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u567	I would like to, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u568	Okay. Then the minister closes. Come on, Mr. Papachristopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u569	I won't have to use all my time. It's just from another perspective I want to remind you that Nick Negropointe and Michael Dertuzos a few years ago, actually, have fought to keep the internet's public character on the ground. It was perhaps the last positive act of the so-called famous universities. I say this because the education that has so far dominated is neither the Enlightenment from the French Revolution nor the ancient Greek democracy. That is what they are despising today. There are universities like Berkeley that I respect. I have no objections about them making real discoveries and so on. There's Stanford, MIT, Harvard. All these universities have a driving force, whether we want it or not. Profit and money. And it's no accident that only eight people on the planet have assets as much as three and a half billion poorer on the planet. Today, for me, with all due respect to what the JRC said - the right to say it - opens up a new little carpet - yes opens up - for another kind of education. That's the feeling I'm getting from this bill. I think he's the belligerent, 'cause he's going to have it all the time. As far as the Independent Greeks are concerned, the representative of the New Democracy should not be saddened and read the Rules of Procedure better, because he has the right and a simple MEP to replace the special speaker, the parliamentary representative. And that has been done too many times, especially in parties with little parliamentary power. As regards what Mr Mavrotas said, I do not want it to continue. I didn't criticize anyone. Everyone's judged for what he's doing. I'm on it again. The Independent Greeks have won a democratic right. To vote consciously. They've done it in more than ten bills. I don't want to get tired. It's just the same thing today. Nothing more and nothing less. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u570	Thank you, Mr. Papachristopoulos. Mr. Grego, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u571	Thank you, Mr President. The draft law was debated with speedy procedures. As we have denounced, however, it has had very important articles dealing with national issues. Of course, he did not have any amendments. There was an originality here. I am very sorry, Mr Minister, because you have accepted the late amendment to the river. I am referring to Amendment No 901/91. As I have told you, it is the late amendment tabled by Potami which is a decriminable misappropriation, which will prove to be injurious to the HEIs and to the students themselves. It is also all but democratic. I would like to say, in order to help the process, that it would be a good thing, Mr President, when we vote on the articles, to say the titles, because there have been many renumbers and some amendments that have been incorporated and an article has been incorporated. I say this to facilitate the process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u572	Thank you, Mr. Grego. Before giving the floor to the Minister, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to the House in accordance with Article 86 of the Constitution and Article 3126/2003 – "Priminal responsibility of the Ministers", as in force on January 17, 2017; criminal forensics concerning the Deputy Minister of Health Mr. Paul Pavlakis. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u573	Thank you, Mr President. I think despite the high-level opposition tone from fortunately a few colleagues, who I think were out of the question, it was finally a very fruitful meeting, as was the meeting of the Committee on Morphic Affairs. It is obvious that speaking like 'the current government is the worst government of all times', even if some believe them, I am sure they do not believe in the issues of education. I would like to raise a few specific points. To say, with all honesty, that political culture in our country cannot change from one day to the next. The debate, despite the tensions it had in committee and here, shows, however, that clear signs of a principle of consensual culture, at least on our own issues. We must welcome this because it is a conquest of all of us obviously with our differences, with our tensions. I think, however, that there has been a debate on the substance, as it is reflected in the final text. Let me tell you some specific evidence. The first is the amendment tabled by the Democratic Reconciliation in relation to the procedures at the "Democritus" University. As I said when I accepted it, I would now state that it has neither a binding nor a regulatory character, because no matter what happens if the request from the same university comes, it is an empty letter. I'm saying that to be informed. Mr Gassini mentioned a number of issues. I think we should state with all emphasis and unequivocality that no child with disabilities will be left out of school. None! Let us see the basic rule and where there is any problem, so that no child can be out of school. And we will be able to do this in local communities, really exhausting arguments and counter-projects and moving forward. Open procedures at the National School of Public Health are a proposal without content, because we are trying to sort out what has been going on so long and I think that in the Minutes our problem has been in great detail. With regard to repetitive examinations, the main problem is that something that is fair and that is for children who are ill, it must not be possible for any regulation to have a negative impact on the other children. This causes a number of children, unfortunately, growing - little but growing - who pretend to be ill. I'm saying it with all honesty.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u574	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u575	You see you're reading and you're not listening to me. You can't do both together. I said they shouldn't be wronged. So I say it's wrong to be with a ministerial decision. I say we discuss it, if you will, all the parties and unanimously decide, however, so that then we do not play a game of protests, complaints, etc. We tried to find a solution. Unfortunately, we can't find a solution. There are pedagogical reasons, because in any case these children must not be repeated. There are many pedagogical reasons, and if you want, I can tell you, but I think I don't want to do it now. But there are also such reasons. There are legal reasons. There is an international experience which is not sensitive to this. But we say we get rid of the possibilities. I conclude with something I do not want you to take it personally, Mr Delis, - you express the views of your party - and it has something to do with the subject week. Saying it's unacceptable to talk about nutrition when there's a country with underestimated children...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u576	I did not say it was unacceptable.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u577	You said it was hypocrisy. It's even worse. I really find it a phrase without argument. Do you want to talk about nutrition, yes or no? Do you want to talk about the anorexia that children have? Do you want to talk about the fact that most of the things we eat are chemically full? Do you want to talk about physical education, regardless of whether there are so many Physical Education Teachers or not? Yes or no? You want to talk about addiction? Do not tell us that we want the legalisation of soft drugs, which are not soft drugs, but is a category of substances, and this is being discussed in too many countries, as I hope you will know.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u578	I say what you'll send to school.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u579	What we sent, read them first before you say these things.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u580	We've read them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u581	So you want to talk about addiction? You want to talk about the fact that you're going to a bar in a cafeteria and young people sit down and they're headed down and press the buttons and they're socialized, like they've been sucked up by the machine? Do you know every night how many fights are made in Greek families in terms of electronic addiction? Are you interested in these things? Finally, do you want to discuss the issues of relations between the sexes, which you did not say a single word about? So I say that on these issues with this incredible Conservation of the JRC, the Left must have absolutely nothing to do with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u582	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned at the outset, on the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: "Adjustment of the subjects of the State Certificate of Language, the National Library of Greece and other provisions" and their vote will be taken separately. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u583	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u584	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u585	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u586	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u587	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u588	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u589	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u590	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u591	The Bill of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: "Adjustment of the subjects of the State Certificate of Language, the National Library of Greece and other provisions", was accepted in the first place by a majority. We are entering the motion for a resolution. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u592	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u593	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u594	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u595	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u596	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u597	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u598	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u599	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u600	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u601	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u602	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u603	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u604	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u605	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u606	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u607	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u608	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u609	Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 3 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u610	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u611	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u612	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u613	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u614	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u615	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u616	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u617	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u618	Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 4 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u619	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u620	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u621	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u622	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u623	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u624	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u625	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u626	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u627	Article 4 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u628	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u629	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u630	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u631	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u632	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u633	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u634	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u635	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u636	Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u637	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u638	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u639	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u640	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u641	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u642	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u643	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u644	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u645	Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 7 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u646	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u647	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u648	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u649	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u650	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u651	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u652	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u653	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u654	Article 7 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Article 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u655	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u656	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u657	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u658	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u659	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u660	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u661	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u662	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u663	Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 9 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u664	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u665	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u666	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u667	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u668	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u669	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u670	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u671	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u672	Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u673	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u674	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u675	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u676	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u677	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u678	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u679	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u680	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u681	Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 11 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u682	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u683	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u684	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u685	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u686	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u687	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u688	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u689	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u690	Article 11 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 12 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u691	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u692	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u693	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u694	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u695	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u696	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u697	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u698	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u699	Article 12 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 13 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u700	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u701	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u702	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u703	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u704	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u705	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u706	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u707	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u708	Article 13 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 14, as amended by the Minister, be accepted by adding 912/101 to an amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u709	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u710	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u711	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u712	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u713	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u714	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u715	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u716	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u717	Article 14 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by adding 912/101 to a majority amendment. Will Rule 15 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u718	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u719	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u720	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u721	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u722	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u723	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u724	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u725	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u726	Article 15 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 16 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u727	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u728	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u729	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u730	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u731	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u732	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u733	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u734	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u735	Article 16 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 17 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u736	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u737	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u738	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u739	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u740	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u741	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u742	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u743	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u744	Article 17 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 18 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u745	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u746	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u747	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u748	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u749	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u750	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u751	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u752	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u753	Article 18 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 19 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u754	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u755	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u756	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u757	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u758	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u759	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u760	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u761	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u762	Article 19 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 20 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u763	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u764	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u765	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u766	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u767	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u768	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u769	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u770	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u771	Article 20 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 21 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u772	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u773	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u774	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u775	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u776	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u777	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u778	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u779	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u780	Article 21 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 22 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u781	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u782	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u783	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u784	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u785	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u786	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u787	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u788	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u789	Article 22 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 23 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u790	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u791	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u792	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u793	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u794	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u795	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u796	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u797	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u798	Article 23 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 24 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u799	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u800	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u801	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u802	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u803	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u804	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u805	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u806	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u807	Article 24 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 25 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u808	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u809	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u810	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u811	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u812	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u813	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u814	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u815	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u816	Article 25 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 26 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u817	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u818	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u819	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u820	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u821	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u822	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u823	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u824	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u825	Article 26 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 27 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u826	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u827	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u828	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u829	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u830	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u831	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u832	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u833	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u834	Article 27 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 28 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u835	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u836	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u837	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u838	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u839	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u840	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u841	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u842	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u843	Article 28 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 29 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u844	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u845	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u846	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u847	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u848	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u849	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u850	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u851	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u852	Article 29 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 30 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u853	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u854	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u855	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u856	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u857	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u858	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u859	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u860	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u861	Article 30 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 31 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u862	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u863	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u864	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u865	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u866	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u867	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u868	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u869	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u870	Article 31 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Article 32 is known to have been deleted. Does the House agree to the new Article 32, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u871	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u872	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u873	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u874	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u875	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u876	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u877	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u878	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u879	Article 32 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept the new Article 33 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u880	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u881	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u882	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u883	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u884	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u885	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u886	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u887	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u888	Article 33 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does the House accept the new Rule 34 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u889	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u890	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u891	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u892	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u893	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u894	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u895	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u896	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u897	Article 34 was therefore accepted as a majority. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 912 and a specific 101 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u898	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u899	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u900	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u901	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u902	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u903	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u904	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u905	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u906	The amendment, by a general number 912 and a special 101, was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of Article 14 of the bill. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 913 and a specific 102 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u907	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u908	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u909	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u910	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u911	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u912	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u913	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u914	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u915	The amendment, by a general number 913 and a special 102, was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u916	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u917	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u918	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u919	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u920	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u921	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u922	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u923	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u924	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. The Bill of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: "Adjustment of the subjects of the State Certificate of Language, the National Library of Greece and other provisions" was accepted in principle and on articles. We move on to the vote of the bill and all of it. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u925	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u926	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u927	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u928	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u929	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u930	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u931	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u932	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u933	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the Law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: “Configure the subjects of the State Certificate of Language, the National Library of Greece and other provisions” was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of articles and all of them and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u934	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u935	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-09-S1-commons.u936	With the consent of the House at 22.57 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, February 10, 2017, at 10 a.m., on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: topical questions.
