ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 11-12-2017 authorisation, the minutes of its PRACTICAL sessions were confirmed by the Bureau on Monday 11 December 2017 with regard to the vote on the entire motion of the President of Parliament: "To amend provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament - Part II" (FEC 51 A'/10.4.1997), as applicable".]] Let us wish for many years for Spyridon and Spyridols, colleagues, workers, policemen and all those working in the House and outside the House. We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Structuring the State Budget for the financial year 2018’. I am informing those who were not until the end of yesterday's sitting that we will start with the remaining four special rapporteurs, in turn, Mr Maniatis, Mr Armalene, Mrs Arabatzis and Mr Balaura, and then we will start the list of the first cycle, as my colleagues have written. A total of ninety - five colleagues have been written. I appeal to colleagues who will certainly speak today to be as consistent as possible in order to be able to exhaust the list of all Members on Tuesday. I would like to inform you that a list of the members of the Ministerial Council has been drawn from the Secretariat of the Government. He's about eight to nine ministries every day, starting from today. Of course, the hours that the ministers have said will not be accurate. It will depend on the order of colleagues. For today, it is scheduled for Mr. Liakos, Mr. Kokkalis, Mr. Fokakis, Mr. Mavraganis, Mr. Vassiliadis, Mr. Kourublis, Mr. Petropoulos and the last, around 20:00, Mr. Spirtzis. That's all as far as information is concerned. I call in Stepma Mr. Maniotis, to start, with the request that we be as disciplined as possible in our time. Here, Mr. Maniatis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Ladies and gentlemen, every time we discuss the budget, we must also look at current events. Last night I heard the Greek Prime Minister addressing the international investors at the conference that is now taking place in New York and characterising our country as "the cause of opportunity, which has open gates to investors". I do not know if Greece is the land of opportunity, but I know that Greece is certainly a lucky country by nature, but it has had the unfortunateness in recent years for the government to govern it headed by Mr. Tsipras, who seems to be going through the book of politics as the Prime Minister of inconsistency, of delusion, which he has made, but also an international success, to be an international one. And now Spanish, Germans, British use the Greek word "association", to show the inconsistency between the Greek Prime Minister's promises and words. Mr Tsipras is also trying with the budget that we have before us to play the role of a 'freener'. It is once again a role that he assigns himself and once again fails. He'd free us from the memorials and immerse us in two more memorials. It is supposed to release us - in the summer of 2018 from the current memorandum, but unfortunately the country will continue to be under comitology by 2060. Because we all know very well that there is no safe and clean way out of the memorandum, when the country has not gone through the necessary structural reforms and much more when the country has not gone along with a new production model that will allow us to get out of the market with credibility to those of whom we want to borrow. Ladies and gentlemen, we, as a parliamentary group yesterday, also tabled a proposal for a law on the protection of first residence. And I would also like to call on the Government and the majority Members to discuss as soon as possible the proposal for a Democratic Participation and River law that ensures the first residence of households with low and medium income from auctions. It is the very least that the government has to do and the least that majority Members have to put pressure on their own government. I now come to the same text of the budget. Could anyone give some features to the budget? I am attempting to give three characterisations: First of all, it is a budget that contains blatant lies. Secondly, it is a designation which has clear austerity measures, antisocial and anti-development measures. And thirdly, it is a budget that does not make the country out of the crisis, and it could indeed come out of the crisis, because I remind you that we are discussing the last budget, perhaps the most critical one after so many years of memoranda. Let's see if the budget we're talking about has any features. I want you to go to the privatization fund, ladies and gentlemen. What does the budget say? It says that the country will receive EUR 2,74 billion in 2018 from privatisations. Of these EUR 2.1 billion, EUR 2.1 billion relates to privatisations for which the tender for the consultant has not even been published. I am talking about PPC, I am talking about ELPEs, I am talking about a set of other operations. And here, for example, the recovery of EUR 500 million from the sale of 35% of ELPE and EUR 100 million from the sale of the sacred and loyal to SYRIZA, which was the famous 17% of PPC, which Mr Tsipras swore would constitute a national crime if he were to sell it. The budget that Mr Tsipras subscribes to this year is to be sold for 100m euros and the remaining 17% of PPC. Secondly, I described the budget as a conservative, anti-developmental and anti-social budget, which unfortunately gives no hope of progress. Is that so? Let's see. With government policy over the last three years -2015 to 2017 - how much the national economy has lost due to the fact that, while the country has been running at a growth rate of 0.7% in 2014, it is still in recession and at best of cases this year instead of a 2.7 increase, which the budget predicted, we will have a marginal increase of over 1.5%. What does that mean by simple words? It means that Greek society, the Greek citizens lost from the large pie of the domestic product around 30 billion euros, because that was the design before Mr. Tsipras and his partners took over the country's governance. And how does he try to defend the government in these obvious things? With the political diversion called the'social dividend'. Is this a social dividend, where does it come from, ladies and gentlemen? It results from poorer and overtaxation - insurance and taxation - of the middle class. It results from the non-issuance of hundreds of thousands of pensions. It results from the non-payment of public suppliers and therefore increases by hundreds of millions the public debts to private suppliers. It results from the cut - towel of widow's pensions. From cutting to extinction of the privileges of the trousers. From losing the CSCE a hundred more forty thousand Greek low pensioners. From the fact that the new two hundred thousand low pensioners who have applied after May 2016 will never see the ESS. And all that against what honour? Faced with the government's inability to move the country towards growth, which is now trying to find a pillow to replace the expected social upheaval. EUR 238 million has been allocated less for the EKRD, EUR 250 million less for multi-Technical allowances, EUR 120 million less than the non-repayment of medical expenses. It is obviously a luxury to get sick and to go to the doctor and ask for proof, so it must not be deducted, says the government! We also have a 50% reduction in the heating allowance. Increase in VAT on the islands. It is this VAT for which we have had vows of honour and faith, even from the government's partner, Mr Kammens, that it is an anti-constitutional regulation. And they come once again to impose an increase in VAT. We call on the proposal for a law to extend the reduced VAT system - and I address my island colleagues - for another year, in 2018. When SYRIZA took over, we were discussing the generation of 700 euros. Unfortunately, we are now discussing the EUR 360 generation, with the sole responsibility of the SYRIZA and ANEL government. Question: Could there be a different approach? Can we find new sources of national wealth to replace overtaxation or loans with other sources? I reply specifically and very briefly: Yes, another budget is feasible, a budget that includes reforms, including the exploitation of new sources of national wealth, which can bring investors and create new jobs. A budget aimed at no longer the numerator, namely how to reduce spending on society and the state, but instead to address the denominator, how, in other words, we will increase the national pie. First example: public property. We have all agreed that public property exceeds EUR 50 billion. By leveraging private individuals, we can have EUR 150 billion of investment over a 15-year period. In other words, for the next 15 years we can only have investments from the public property of EUR 10 billion each year. What does that mean by simple words? Public revenues of at least 30% of these 10 billion a year. EUR 3 billion can be invaded by public funds if we move on to exploiting public property with employment clauses, sustainability clauses, a local utility clause and a new job creation clause. Is there any other way? Yes, there is. The use of the country's mineral wealth, which can contribute up to EUR 2 billion to the insurance funds. Thirdly, public reform. Instead of creating other, more and more special and general secretariats, the Greek State should be reformed so that we can save operational expenditure of EUR 1 billion every year. Fourth sentence: The Greek universities. Minister, do you know how much Cyprus has increased its GDP from the use of Cypriot universities? Two-five percent. If you release the Greek universities and are transformed into international centers of foreign languages, where foreigners come to study in Greek universities, paying tuition fees, then based on the Greek Bank of Greece's proposal and study, we can have EUR 2 billion extra revenues in the Greek budget from the Greek universities. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Thursday and last week's proposal: Protected areas. 25% of the country is protected areas. In December 2014, we had reached a unanimous conclusion how, by exploiting the best practices of the European Union, we could use the protected areas. The study of "internationalism" came a few weeks ago and justified us. Every year EUR 1.8 billion and the creation of ten thousand new jobs can be there immediately, if we make good use of the protected areas of the country. Finally, save energy. We have proposed, Minister, and I would like you to see this once again, because your predecessor has agreed - only by tax exemption for anyone who wants to invest a sum of up to EUR 15 000 at home. To give the opportunity to have a green building, a green use of the seven million buildings and apartments that the country has. Don't build any more drums. To use and improve the existing infrastructure and to double the revenues from using precisely these tax exemptions. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget that we are debating, unfortunately, will not be the budget for the country's exit from the crisis. It will be another budget that will continue to hold the country under supervision, which will continue not to have credibility, a budget which will not enable us to take the great financial breaths that the country and society need so much. That is why we are voting against this budget. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u3	We shall now proceed with the special rapporteur for SYRIZA, Mr Nikolaos Srmalene.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u4	Good morning, everyone! Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to make a comment. We thank Mr. Maniatis, because with his arguments he has proved how abyssed he divides the Democratic Association from New Democracy and Mr.Mitsotakis and, of course, for the reversal of reality in a number of areas, PPC, family allowances, etc., etc. I am, however, going to the point because time is limited. We are discussing the 2018 budget, a difficult budget, but we hope for the last Memorandum, and we say this not because we are suited, but because we rely on the credibility of the country which was conquered thanks to the sacrifices of the Greek people, but also thanks to the government's insistence, which has been chosen throughout this period by respecting the programme, on the one hand, but on the pursuit of fair burden-sharing and benefits, with priority, of course, in the face of the humanitarian crisis. This reliability is reflected in the reductions in the yields of Greek bonds. So the country's credibility has been won. The evaluations are closing. All the institutional and other factors of the European and international organisations converge in the recognition of the recovery and development of the Greek economy and the exit from the Memorandum of August 2018. At the same time, we are creating the conditions for a stable memorial period with the creation of a reserve for financial needs and full support of the economy from the markets. So we close in 2017 with all positive indicators - exports, industry, consumption, tourism, fixed capital investments and so on - with the growth of 1.6% - because the second quarter could have been temporarily 0.8%, but it was finally proved to be 1.6% - with unemployment reaching 20% and, of course, with a surplus of 2.4%, much more than the 1.75% target. I will repeat here how this surplus has come out, because the anti-politics colleagues are always standing on the issue of overtaxation. I shall say, therefore, that this surplus was mainly secured by increased VAT collection through the expansion and development of electronic transactions. It was secured as a result of the increase in the collection of insurance contributions. It was ensured by the voluntary disclosure of income which by the end of the year, as the President of the Independent Public Income Authority said at the investment conference in the United States, will reach 711 million. It was, of course, ensured by increased tax evasion at all levels, in fuel and tobacco smuggling, in the Lagard and Boyars lists, in the panama papers, in offshore companies, for which mainly the ND does not want to hear, since it had left the House in the debate about about a year ago. With this in mind, the surplus has been attributed to three million four hundred thousand fellow citizens in our three days the social dividend of 1.4 billion, and for the first time in the budget the report on the reduction of tax evasion is incorporated, precisely in order to demonstrate the effort and its results. This is all contrary to the encouragement of tax evasion, which Mr Georgiadis, Vice-President of the New Democracy, considers to be legitimate and moral the evasion of wealth in tax havens by reason of the "unjust" taxes imposed by the State. Our forecast, therefore, for growth rates in 2018 is in the form of 2.5%, the surplus slightly above 3.5%, to 3.8%, while unemployment will fall from 20% to 18.4%, instigating the de-escalation of recent years. Reducing unemployment and increasing employment are products of targeted policies and targeted programmes which, together with the fight against undeclared and black labour, have brought these encouraging results. Instead, your policy with the deforestation of the Labour Inspectorate during the years of your administration closed your eye to market immunity. We are therefore presenting the 2018 budget, a budget subject to the commitments of the last year of the memorandum, but at the same time it extends the social state. This seems and is guaranteed through the continuation of the Social Solidarity Grant of EUR 720 million, by the yield of an additional 315 million saved from state spending, mainly aimed at alleviating child poverty, by strengthening family allowances for the first and second children, by extending school meals, by creating three hundred and eighty new day-care facilities. I also want to say that the welfare budget while in 2015 it was 789.700,000, has arrived this year for 2018 at 1.836,000. In addition, 50 million will be allocated for the protection of the first home, covering 95% of the instalments of housing loans for households from incomes of 8,180 to 24,000 euros per year and for an objective value of houses of 120,000 to 220,000, depending on households' faces. At this point I want to refer to the positive assessment of ECAI's finances and the crucial importance, the 2017 positive statement and the 2018 forecast. The integration of the insurance system has, of course, created a number of malfunctions at the beginning, but it is demonstrated that the great reform of the system and the tool for simplifying procedures for the more rapid awarding of pensions is a major one. And despite your fast news and allegations, the insurance system received at the end of 2014 unpaid benefits of EUR 381.444 and a deficit of EUR 1,186,000, while now presenting a surplus and payment from 2015, five hundred thousand benefits to mains, supplementary pensions and one-off, with the aim of the end of 2018 to limit the waiting time to the quarter. Here too, we should stress that the increase in ECA income comes mainly from the increase in employment, since the wage contributions remained at the same level. In particular, the financial result of the insurance funds for 2018 is expected to be in surplus of 859 million, while the main objective remains to be the complete clearing of the outstanding main pension applications by June 2018. At the same time, efforts to combat tax evasion are intensified through the strengthening of the EIA with new staff, the interoperability of the information systems AIA, the Ministry of Labour and the Independent Public Revenue Authority, as well as the use of the Risk Analysis system. Finally, the OAED provides for a surplus of 586 million. In its revenues, an increase in insurance contributions of 68 million is estimated, due to positive levels of employment, while the costs are estimated to increase for employment programmes of 100 million compared with 2017. The increased cost of employment programmes will support employers’ grants for the conversion of employees with a "block" to employees, the programmes for enclaved workers and the first recruiting grant programmes of employees aged up to thirty-five years. In 2018, further improvement of the economy, strengthening growth rates, reducing unemployment, in addition to the revenues of the ECAI, will also increase the returns on contributions to the EEAS and to the OAED. In the health sector, there is provision for a reduction in the State subsidy of 363 million to the hospitals and 214 million to the EEA, but we also need to read more carefully the public health budget and not to draw any conclusions easily, because the reduced State grant to the hospitals is compensated for by the increase in resources from the EEA to the National Health System and also by the high reserves of hospitals, which are around 400 million, so that expenditure remains at the same level. And what is of interest to patients is the provision of services, but also the possibility for public health structures to buy at low cost medicines, materials and services. After all, it is clear that we are talking about a restrictive framework for public health expenditure, as it amounts to 5.1% of GDP, when the average of the countries of the European Union is 6.5% to 7%. Ladies and gentlemen, because the deformative picture presented by the New Democracy and its current constituent, the Democratic Reconciliation cannot be unanswered, we will have to deal with your key account in some respects. You say that, first of all, none of the budget objectives have been reached, except the objective of the surpluses, which, in your opinion, is a product of wild overtax. You forget that from a loss of 25% of GDP we are now on the increase, to growth, to a reduction in unemployment, to a return to collective labour agreements after the end of 2018. You talk to us about overtaxation, but the report of the Court of Auditors states that from 2009 to 2015 the tax burden has risen by six points, and from 2016 only two units have been up. You say that we have charged the country 100 billion, but you know that from 86 billion in the third memorandum, a large part is a loan to repay previous loans and therefore restructuring. Now, with regard to public administration, which you say you will save resources, I want you to tell us if you want a state of health, education, safety or development, if you want a police officer, firefighting, port, hospitals, health centers, if you want teachers and teachers for schools, if you want geoponics and veterinarians for rural and rural development. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will not go into any other arguments, because time has passed. What I mean to say is this: answer us, the 4.2 billion, which you say you will save and give by reducing the six new taxes, from where will you get them? Will you find them from reducing the waste of the public, as you say, in other words from redundancies in public health and public education? Are you going to find them from the party of undeclared expenditure, which you have spent on health at 80 billion, with CEDEFOP-type costs, or with sea-loans and loan and wild air guarantee, as you have done for many years to your media friends? Ladies and gentlemen, as regards all of this, the country is now moving with confidence in the final exit from the memoranda and the crisis. He prepares with a plan and strategy the next day, formulates solutions for the effective debt relief and for a strong social state, as well as for a different model of development with ecological and social sensitivity. We are upgrading the country's international position through the exercise of a multi-dimensional foreign policy. We are at the forefront of Europe and we are creating the alliance of the countries of the South. We are fighting for Europe of peace, democracy and social cohesion. We move on to substantial reforms at all levels, organise development conferences in all regions of the country, in consultation with all local communities, and form the alternative, strategic and productive development plan.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u5	Finish, Mr. Symblene.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u6	I believe that all this - and I close, Mr President - is the process of revising the constitution which has already been consulted. This is our map that with stability, steadfastness and patience gradually leads us out of Greece of the crisis with society upright. With an ally the endless forces of our people, we will succeed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after being informed of the history of the building, thirty-three students and students and two teachers attending from the 2nd Holargo High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] There are two special rapporteurs who will now take the floor, Mrs Arabatzi, as I said, and Mr Balaourras, and then, to begin to run out slowly and slowly, I will give the floor to Mr Liako. I recognize the five of the colleagues of the first cycle who will speak after Mr. Liakos to be in the Chamber: Mr.Michelologistannakis, Mrs. Kerameos, Mr. Konstantinopoulos, Mr. Germenis and Mr. Katsotis. This will be the five that will follow Mr. Liaco. Mrs. Arabatzis, you're the only woman from the fifteen special rapporteurs, so we welcome you to Stepma. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the preamble to the budget, which we are going to discuss these days in the House, has already been given by the Minister for Finance himself. He described him as "justice", as himself earlier, after Mr. Juliarakis, he had said that the choice of your Government to overtax the middle class is conscious. But Mr Tsakalotos used the softest expression of your budget. Because he's definitely not only unfair, but he's exterminated for the weak, soluble for the economy, and he's also callal, just like he was the one in 2017 that ends in a few days. He's a kalpist, because you predicted a 2.7% growth - that's what you've been voting on last year - and instead, what happened? ELSTAT’s recent data show growth for the third quarter of 2017 to decline to 1.3% from 1.6% of the second quarter. As you can see, the budget forecasts are worth as much as Mr Varoufakis's papers, the ones he would pay for wages and pensions, that is, nothing, forecasts of air and air, since at best growth at the end of the year will hardly reach 1%. But how can the development come, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and ANEL, when you choose the ruthless tax raid against everything, when you demonize and target the business, when in your mind you only have the retreat of all incomes down and then of course the subsidised policy, to represent the good and the "Robins of the poor". I know, I know what you're going to say to me, 'it's not like that, my fellow Member, we're interested in development. Really, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and ANEL? For me still ring the hollow promises of Mr. Flamouraris that in December 2017, these days, the bulldozers would enter the Greek and instead of the bulldozers, we had Mr. Spirtzi's statement that the Greek will be delivered to the investor in June 2018. From one lie to the other, that is, from one denial to the other and the cost, unfortunately, is always paid by the citizens. In the face of these constant self-confidences, all your Government has to do as a success, is the famous surplus, the poverty dividend that you give to those with your policies you make every day increasingly poorer, a policy inspired by impertinent populism, to satisfy the ideals and to build false communication figurines. However, this is called political dishonesty, ladies and gentlemen, because everyone knows that your share is a product of a wild overtaxation of production in Greece, a product of exterior insurance contributions to free professionals, self-employed and farmers, a product of seizures and forced recovery measures to a million citizens, the product of an extended internal payment posture, the product of an unprecedented delay in the award of pensions. The day before yesterday, ladies and gentlemen, I met a farmer born in 1950, in February 1950. So, this lady, like about ten thousand more OGA pensioners, should under the Katrugalou law receive her pension from February 2017. With the bad previous New Democracy government as of July 1, 2017, she would have been retired. Today, she stays in black darkness and wonders not only when, but whether she will eventually get her pension. Why, ladies and gentlemen, while you are giving the poverty divide, you are giving no dividends to work, production, civil safety, education, health, and no dividends to hope. There are, of course, only deficits there. False big words of the past, as Mr Alexiadis would have said, are now for you last year's sour grapes. And it is such that your obedient transformation, which the Minister for Finance suddenly discovers the social and economic usefulness of auctions, while the world's heartbeat does not even get out of the hammer, the one we protected by legislation, ladies and gentlemen of the coup d'état, and not with supposed deals of gentlemen and wishes, such as you. You who would once protect the homes of the poor people, now blame us for not starting auctioning in 2012. And as if not all of this were enough, this year's budget brings extra measures. It is, then, a budget of political fraud and a virtual reality. All it does is calculate the poverty and the taxes that will be borne by all Greeks for one more year and, of course, record your cynical and analgesic face to the weakest, those who are supposed to be defending you by wearing your left staff. Because no matter how much you want the Greeks to forget, no matter how much you try to cover up and hide the measures that will fall on everyone's backs since January 2018, the reality is not hidden and it is not thrown away. And the grim reality hears in the name of a 50% reduction in the heating allowance, a 238m euro cut, a 50% increase in VAT on thirty two Aegean islands - even those affected by migratory flows - absurd and unprecedented abolition of medical expenses tax exemptions. You understand what has to do with tax evasion. Also, there will be a reduction or abolition of privileged allowances, a towel on new widow's pensions, a tax for the first time in the periods of insurance contributions and an additional tax on accommodation in hotels and rooms. All of these are the painful and irreversible measures of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL. And then you have the courage to talk about the clear exit from the memorandum in August 2018 and to set up another political deception operation. Obviously, you think that the measures you have voted on will be forgotten and hopefully they will be charged to the next ones. Unfortunately, the Greeks remember that you voted 'yes' at all. They recall that the additional inappropriate measures that will be imposed in 2019 and 2020, if you are not eventually forced to implement them earlier, as stated in the supplementary memorandum revealed by ‘KATHMERINA’ on Sunday, namely the new reduction in pensions and the new reduction in duty, have the signature of your de facto fourth memorandum, with high primary surpluses of 3.5% of GDP by 2023 and continuous austerity by 2060. That's what you want the Greeks to forget, and that's why anyone who reminds you and ruins your account, like Mr. Liargovas who talked about getting out of the memorandum with fathers, make sure you send him home. Nevertheless, you are talking again about growth, knowing well that in the last three years the only negative development surprise in Europe is, unfortunately, our country. So, what guarantee do we have to believe you about the 2.5% growth that you promise this year? The development of the Public Investment Programme, which is, of course, the mirror of a country's economic, development and investment policy with the highest rate of growth, is a statement of your unreliability. There, therefore, you will completely hide another grim reality, that in the first ten months of 2017 there is a significant delay in its execution of EUR 1.1 billion. You had promised last year that 6.750,000 euros and in the end there was a 460 million euro hole, as much as the social dividend, which as good 'Robins of the poor' you looked to share. The course of development laws is also tragic, since of course it took you a year and a half to succeed in building a development law with the colossal number - listen! -480m euros until 2022. Really huge development, Ministers! It is a law that you passed it in June 2016, you amended it in June 2017, you have proclaimed four aid schemes and in this respect there is not even a single request that has been assessed. Development of a SYRIZA - ANLE is called this, ladies and gentlemen of the conflict. And while you are talking about growth, available valuable Community resources, which could be a breathtaking developmental in an economy that is immersed in a state of stagnation, in a climate of disinvestment and, of course, in capital controls, in order not to forget ourselves, they are unfortunately trapped. Note: ESDP 2014-2020, Rural Development Programme, Operational Fisheries and Sea Programme 2014-2020, Territorial Cooperation Programmes for New Entrepreneurs. Everything is sprinkling on the grasses of a government that only raises losses and evasive revenues in a narrow-minded economy. The ESDPEC, the largest operational programme, is just 270m euros, 17% below the target in the year that passed. Speaking of the precious 5.9 billion euros of the 2014-2020 Rural Development Programme, the NRP, the farmers, three years after the start of the programming period, they are also forgotten in the underground of Acharne. We have a tragic delay in absorbing. They are four units, stable, below the European average, according to the latest figures in October, due naturally to the uncertainty, the old, but also the ideality of your Government. The administrative inadequacy has come not only to deprive valuable development resources but to jeopardise even the imposition of superfluous Community fines. The sum of EUR 31,416 per day - and yesterday, ladies and gentlemen - is at risk of paying our country, since it is referred by the European Commission to the European Court of Justice for its failure to comply with the Community directive on maritime spatial planning. And it's enough to wonder, really, what's worse? Is the anemic use of the Rural Development Programme or its perversion and spending in a rhysphetological game of pheasyness and favorite subsidised policies? It is Rusfetti and pragmatism, ladies and gentlemen of the conflict, as you have done with the compensatory compensation, as you are doing with the early retirement of farmers who have been baptized 'developmental absorption', as you have done - and it is criminal - with the programmes of young farmers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And because I have heard a lot of colleagues smuggling about school meals, I have to tell you ladies and gentlemen of the conflict that we are, because of you, the only European Union country that we have not absorbed EUR 4,769.570 for the 'Fruits and Vegetables' programme in schools, which is about three hundred thousand pupils throughout Greece and would, of course, be a breath for the agricultural sector which is shaken by your policies. To close - and I thank you for the tolerance, Mr President - I would like to say that you received the country in 2014 one step before the crisis came out and you condemned it for years back. You charged it with tens of billions of euros and two unnecessarily memos with your experimentation and amateurism at all levels. The recent Erdogan visit, its unfortunate timing and the Step you gave him to formulate any claims he made for the Treaty of Lausanne and Thrace, to be publicly debated with the state leadership, is the last sample of this amateurism, which I really hope we will not pay for.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u9	Mrs. Arabatzis, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u10	I shall conclude, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and ANELs, your administration's account is unbearable. That is why the overwhelming majority of citizens are squeezing and wondering with an agony when you will finally leave, when the suffocating country will inhabit oxygen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u11	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u12	Mr. Papadopoulos, don't exterminate yourself. What would you like to say how long you're staying? It can't be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u13	Here too, Mr Colleague you are shouting, is the New Democracy's mission to do what its name suggests to build the new Greek republic of the 21st century. Because we believe in Greece that creates, produces and distinguishes, and not in Greece that is conspiring in the line for dividends and occasional allowances. Because we respect healthy entrepreneurship, guaranteeing fewer taxes that bring jobs, against the tax extermination it gives for a while, crumbs to a few. Because we believe in the development potential of Community funds, against the splash and their usurpation. Because we believe in the power of progress, of merit and not in the levelling-up of loot and of lame fatalism. Because we believe in democracy in order, security, respect for justice, against the bailout of the institutions that you are working on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u14	Mrs. Arabatzis, finish or I'll cut you off.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u15	I'm closing, Mr. President. This is the new patriotism that will bring about very soon, by the vote of the Greek people, the governance of the New Democracy and the Prime Minister, Kyriakos Mitsotakis. This is the battle of light against your darkness. So good night and good luck, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and ANEL.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theory, after taking part in the "Workery of Democracy" educational programme organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-one students and two educational attendants from the 14th Municipal School of Attica. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We're closing down with our special rapporteurs with Mr. Gerosimo Balaura from SYRIZA. Immediately after that, the Deputy Minister, Mr Liakos, will take the floor and will follow the first five colleagues on the list, as I have announced. Mr Balaura, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. I shall reply to the provocative question from my colleague from New Democracy that we are amateurs.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u18	I've been judging.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u19	Of course, you did an evaluation. I think it is better to be an amateur than a professional like you, who, being 'professionals', lost the national wealth by 25% - a percentage unprecedented throughout all mankind, except during the war period - you left one and a half million unemployed and disappeared within three years - of the first period - wages, pensions, everything! And how did you do it? With the magic wand of your professionalism, you used it to get the wallet of citizens and their families. You have done for years remorse, predators, ruffles to your civilian staff and friends businessmen and media. That's your professionalism! We, therefore, are the amateurs who brought us to the government to clean up the bounty of Ayia, the professionals, to restore the submerged country and its maritime inhabitants. Already, ladies and gentlemen, the unemployed have been reduced under the critical - if you like - and a limit of one million, and unemployment will soon fall below 20%. We're not celebrating. For others, it's fairs. On the contrary, we hurt those people you brought to this misery. Another element in the process of poverty - I told the committee as well - is that now it is shocking - is the risk of poverty in the population when we received the government at 52.9%. Today it's 21.2%. I'm not saying it. It's the official evidence. Another element: You, the "professionals", admit and say that you are supposed to be in favour of the new economy. What is your electronic new economy that you left behind to us? No possibility of crossing data! Because of your inability? No, because you're obviously professionals! Of course! What's the point? Not to be able to carry out checks and cross-checks on the rich who evacuate, built offshore companies and took their money to Panama Papers and Paradise Papers. Here we have to admit something: Greeks are in the first positions worldwide among those who made their money at offshore companies. That's the situation. Didn't your businesses take the money they received from these loans out of their own income? I will give you an example for you "professionals" and for us "employers". They withdrew 200m euros from the ESRB and development laws for lovitours of your time. These are shocking elements for you "professionals"! And the porcupines, which are probably less professional in these things, forced you in 2014 an increased electronic monitoring system, due to corruption. And this increased system has been found by us, and that is why we cannot proceed as far as we would like to see the ESDP and development laws. You're talking about growth, too. But who? The one who always lived in predictions. So you didn't say in 2012, in 2013, in 2014? I will tell you information from the European Court of Auditors. You anticipated 2012 growth of 1.1%. What happened? 7.3% downwards. You anticipated 2013 growth of 2.1%. What happened? 3.2% recession. You anticipated 2014 growth of 2.1%. What happened? 0.4% growth. That's the situation. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point the Member, Mr Gerasios Balaouras, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So you brought this recession, which cumulatively reached 25%. Yesterday, Mr. Koutsoukos and Mr. Dendias said "if it were us in 2014 and we continued, we would have growth". But how? With self-proclaiming prophecies? That's what this is about. So today you are going, with distortion, lies and alteration of evidence. I'll ask you a few questions. Has employment increased, so that there is an excess in the EBRD of 448 million? Answer me with evidence. I'm talking with evidence. I don't do philosophical excesses. Has undeclared work been reduced by APRC audits, yes or no? Is smuggling reduced by 525 million? Was the introduction of plastic money increased by 108%? Greece was first all over Europe in terms of the increase in plastic money transactions. Is the 'Lagard list' counting increased from 23 million, which you had, to 279 million? And the previous speaker and Mr. Dendias and Mr. Koutsoukos and others from the opposition are talking about the ESDP. I ask: The absorption has increased since 2016 and reached 11.4% of us, while you had only 1.5%? Yes or no? Is it accidental that the Eurogroup admitted that this great success has been achieved by the Greek Government for the absorption of the ESRB funds, yes or no? They are decisions of the Eurogroup. Read some other things. We have paid back development plans for your period, namely for the 2004-2014 Development Law, 210 million, which you were unable to proceed with. Yes or no? Because he said about the Juncker project yesterday, Mr. Dendias, that we did not use it, we took 3.7 billion, and we are from the first countries in the European Union for this project. Yes or no? The European Investment Bank has already contributed to the investment of 2 billion and the programming is for 7 billion, a total of 20 billion with leverage. Yes or no? Exports increased by 18%. It's been the highest percentage in a decade. Yes or no? Foreign direct investment increased by 161% - please - in the seven months of 2017, compared to the corresponding seven months of 2016. Yes or no? The cost of borrowing - we go to your right now - of the state is now 4.5%, while in 2014 on your own PASOK and New Democracy government was in 8.5%. Is it true, yes or no? Answer, if you dare, you who make philosophical judgments that we are amateurs. Regarding the average of the decades of prosperity supposedly, i.e. the "fuss" Sineite and the New Democracy between 2000 and 2008, the cost was 4,7% and with us, in a period of deep crisis, it went to 4.5%. Is it true, yes or no? I would remind you that all institutions, houses, newspapers and international banks today say that Greece is moving forward and coming out of the crisis. They're still saying SYRIZA's gonna win the government. Of course he'll win it. Did we expect foreign houses to say it? There is no citizen who runs to you again, NW and PASOK, i.e. lovitura, corruption, destruction. You will remain miserable and fatal! But you really deserve a tactical award, and I want to give it to Mr Teddy. In the question asked by both the ministers and us and by the SYRIZA rapporteurs 'Where will you find, friends, the money to make these cuts and reduce taxation, which is around 4.9 billion?' - that's the account - Mr. Dendias answered 'we're going to send out the post-mortem employees you'. We're going to jokes now! Even if you let them out of the ones we took, no matter how much we took, they're up to 2 million a year? How many are there? We are talking about 4.9 billion. Funny! And if we were not in this situation, we would still laugh, but we are in a tragic situation, with a world impoverished. And what you didn't say! Even that we tried to intervene in justice. Yesterday you said so. Who are the judges? Are the dukes and barons of feudal Greece, as you want to do it again? Why should judges be excluded when all Greek citizens have an obligation to submit 'from whereabout'? Why is that? In this way you do not embrace the judges. You strike those judges who are not colonists, they are honest and they do their job properly. Colleagues, the New Democracy has given up elementary political intelligence and is trapped in artificial intelligence. You know what artificial intelligence is. It's the one where you get the computer to play chess, play him and the other. So you: Your extreme right-wing developers have put an artificial intelligence, which can't deliver anything. There can be no criticism, there can be no political dialogue. This artificial intelligence has no memory, it has no feeling even for the helpless, it has no sensitivity or perspective. He can't create an artificial intelligence perspective for the future. To us the clergy were asked to take on the difficult task of getting out of the crisis. We have now closed the third evaluation. You yelled for the second one, the one and the other. Diaselblum himself said it wasn't our fault for the second one, which you said "sign". And now he says it was because of the IMF's monolithic and dogmatic attitude. Is it like this or isn't it? So it closes this third assessment and this budget is the last memorandum. It's a difficult budget, coercion. We don't forget that. And it's right that Chakalotos said he's not as fair as he is, we'd like to. That's obvious! What are you going to say next year, though, in the face of a new situation, in a context of course? Are you going to bleak things that can't stand again? You will make memorial to the monumental past of calamity, lovitura and plight in general at the place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u20	We continue with the State Secretary, Mr. Liaco. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2018 budget concludes a historic cycle of a painful period of economic and social folding for the country. The systematic effort of recent years, with the aim of raising the economy, reducing the consequences of the crisis and improving the social state, is now giving fruit. As the ministers responsible will be more detailed, our country returns to positive growth, and even with a dynamic trend, our public finances are surplus, unemployment is falling and social structures are being strengthened. At the same time, an extensive programme of necessary reforms has been implemented that improves the efficiency of the state, strengthens the country's competitiveness and attractiveness for investments. All this is now recognised by the institutions, international analysts and markets. The debate on the budget coincides with the timely closure of the technical part of the third evaluation in terms which are positive for Greek positions. I shall mention the following: there are no new budgetary measures in addition to those already adopted. It was agreed that the over-performance of the budgetary targets should return in the form of a social surplus to about 1/3 of the country's population. Social benefits are increased in a targeted and effective way. There is also a solid grid of reforms contributing positively to sectors such as tax administration, public procurement, health, public administration, business environment improvement and elsewhere. I would like to make a special reference to energy, as the obligation to sell lignite is the result of the agreement with the Competition Committee of the Commission, following a decision by the European Court of Justice on the use of lignite and other market participants, which means that we would have to harmonise ourselves, whether or not we were in a programme. I would also like to point out this point: it is necessary - and it is necessary - to complete all our actions so that the prerequisites as the middle of next month are completed so that the Eurogroup in January will give the green light to the final evaluation, the completion of the evaluation and officially. In the same time and in a positive way, we want to close the fourth evaluation, which will be the last evaluation of the programme, which will mean, out of the end of the programme and the beginning of a new era, a time when the recovery of our economic sovereignty also entails the full burden of responsibility for the next day. The cash present in a globalised system will bring the country before critical challenges. One would expect that the adventure of the crisis and of the memoranda would create a minimum point of understanding, at least as far as the major issues are concerned. Instead, we still see today that political controversy is conducted many times with extreme characterisations and easy extremism. However, the next day for Greece that aspires to return to normality - a term, of course, with many and possibly significantly different conceptual and semantic approaches - which means quality of life for the citizens of the country with a dynamic presence in the world's beard, cannot and should not be a matter of one. It cannot be just a matter of a governmental formation alone today. It must be the result of mobilisation and active participation of all and, above all, civil society. In the years of the crisis, the concept of democracy has become compressed, shrinked. We need to discover it again as a horizon for political participation and the resolution of social issues through dialogue and forward-looking compositions. Only then will we respond to the critical challenge of the next day, which is to face up to challenges of the future, such as growth of the economy, job creation, while ensuring a satisfactory level of living, reducing inequalities, the impact of rapid technological change and developments in social and economic relations, climate change and proper preparation for its consequences, the role of the country in the world. The implementation of progressive changes requires a wide-ranging dialogue with society and productive actors, in order to design the appropriate mix of policies that will make it possible to make better use of our comparative advantages, seek to give answers to the challenges of our times, prepare us to address both the challenges that I mentioned in both the immediate and the ultimate future. Next period I would call it provocatively interesting and, at the same time, an opportunity to discuss organized and sober for our common future. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that our country has made sacrifices, which finally catch a place. Today we have the opportunity for a new start, having all the preconditions for its success, only to create confidence in society, to understand in depth the problems and the challenges ahead and not to fear the necessary changes. The vote in favour of this year's budget is the first safe step in this direction. That is why I invite you to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u22	Mr. Secretary, you set the good example of keeping time. The Bureau thanks you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u23	I too, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u24	Because I didn't ring the bell, Mace, it doesn't mean you kept the twelve minutes! It was 12.56, for example! I'm writing them here! Now that because of sympathy, I didn't ring the bell. Don't confuse things! We are now starting with the first five of the Members registered. The first will come to Step Ioannis Michelovanakis. Here comes Mrs. Kerameos, Mr. Konstantinopoulos, Mr. Germenis and Mr. Katsotis. Then I will give the floor to Mr Kokalis, the second State Secretary, so that the list can go a little further. Mr. Micholiannakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. Beyond the philosophies of counterpopulation, there are some things that are undeniable. Is it true or not that the rate of economic growth is 2.5%? Is it lying that for the first time we're catching a 0.7% general government surplus? Is it lying that the surplus in the state budget will exceed the target of 1.5% of GDP? Are they lying that GDP growth by 3.6 points at current prices will occur? Is it lying that the deposits have a 4% increase in the first seven months? Is it lying that there is an increase in private consumption to 0.8%, that the child poverty of 52.9% fell to 21.2%, that the unemployment of 27% fell to 21% and that, in terms of employment, according to the 'ERGAN', in the tenth of 2017, the net jobs of 167,451 of which 76,000 are full-time and 91,000 in part-time employment were increased? The growth rate is based on the private consumption that goes well - and we know it - and on the gross fixed capital formation that you want, you do not want, it will be two-digit in 2018. Export growth is at 18%, increased industrial activity to 5.3%, foreign direct investment caught EUR 2.1 billion, 161% in the first seven months of 2017 compared to the corresponding seven months of 2016. The balance of goods, services is going well, i.e. exports are greatly increased over imports. The absorption of the NRP in 2016 was 11.4% and will reach 2018, as they show, 20%. We have already activated EUR 1.2 billion from the ESRB and thousands of businesses have joined. Growth reached 0.8% in the second quarter. And I keep going. It is not true that the social budget is reduced by EUR 1.6 billion, because, firstly, it does not provide for a social dividend of EUR 1.35 billion, secondly, the EUR 214 million reduction in EEAS and EUR 363 million in hospitals is due to an increase in ECA revenues and the transfer of money from the ECA to the EEA and from EEAS to hospitals. The financing of public pension expenditure is not reduced to the extent that it is provided to EVA. The number of outstanding pension applications has been revised. Expenditure in the EEA shall not be reduced by EUR 204 million. There is a reduction in unpaid EEA commitments and in the transfer of EEAH’s due obligations to the ECA for a period before 2012. There has also been an increase in EEA payments due to increased contributions for health coverage. You say we lost 100 billion euros. The EUR 86 billion was previously in debt, except for the EUR 12.3 billion that was not for earlier debts. So, lie. You say that since 2014 we lost 31 billion. You see the 216 billion in the medium term, you see all 186,7 billion of ours and you make 31 billion. Wrong grammar, wrong reading. Ladies and gentlemen, all of these seventeen points show that this year's budget is both developmental and redistributive and serves public finances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u26	And we, Mr. Micholonnakis. Mrs. Nikki Kerameos is called to Step by New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the third budget of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, three main government bonds are entered in the 2018 state budget. Confession first: Government failure to achieve development goals is revealed and this throughout your three-year downward governance. For example only examples. You say growth rate of 1.6% instead of 2.7%, which you anticipated yourself. Of course, the actual figures show a growth rate much lower, to 1.3% or 1.4%. You say investment in 5.1% instead of 9.1%, which you yourself anticipated and all this despite the unthinkable measures you have already taken. Confession two: the exhaustion of citizens' burden-sharing capacity is confirmed. For example, again. Net revenues of EUR 3 billion less in the ordinary budget than the medium-term objective, EUR 1.5 billion less revenues from direct taxes than in 2016. The total overdue tax debt of citizens and insurance funds, ladies and gentlemen, now touches the sum of EUR 130 billion. Let me repeat this: they are touching the sum of EUR 130 billion, increased by over 50% in 2014. On page 57 of the report you confess in the most cynical way to deplete the burden-sharing capacity of citizens. Trying to explain the reduced revenues from direct taxation, you say - and here I use your words - that this is due to a reduction in the tax base. What does that mean? It means that you have exterminated the citizens who meet their obligations. Confession third: Despite the two previous confessions, i.e. government failure to achieve the targets and to deplete citizens' burdens, the 2018 budget hides new charges of 1.9 billion euros for natural persons and for businesses. So for the third year you will follow the same failed recipe, the recipe of a budget that insists on overtaxation, which is anti-developmental and which is unfair. Not fair, why? Because it eliminates the middle class, because it impoverishes low incomes. New charges, new austerity measures, including, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, and the following: New pension cuts, new cuts in family allowances, new cuts in third-tier and luxury allowances, cuts in the heating allowance, the abolition of the EAS for a hundred thousand low pensioners, the abolition of a tax deduction for medical expenses, the extension of the special solidarity levy, the imposition of a tax on hotels and rental rooms, the increase in VAT on thirty-two islands of the north-east Aegean and the Dodecanese, but also additional charges on insurance contributions for free professionals. These, ladies and gentlemen, are your choices for the country and are your conscious government choices. Besides, your own government officials are talking about these choices with a lot of nerve, I'd say. The Minister of Finance has confessed that the budget we are discussing is unfair. Earlier the Deputy Minister of Finance had said on the record that the tax burden on the 2017 and 2018 budget is great for honest and consistent taxpayers, for the middle-class, is great for the free professions. That was a conscious choice, he said. Ladies and gentlemen, it was and remains a conscious choice of this government to impoverish the middle class, to impoverish this key element of Greek society and the economy. Two words on the budget for education. Ladies and gentlemen, we welcome the fact that there is an increase of 3.16%, not 5%, according to your statement, Minister of Education. Really, how did that percentage rounded? Creative accounting. In any case, any increase in the education budget for the country is welcome. But let's see how this growth is shared. So, in running the budget, I stood by some figures that gave me a special impression. And please, for your attention. Let's go to page 107. Ladies and gentlemen, an increase of 548% in expenditure on the pan-Hellenic examinations. An increase of 548% for the pan-Hellenic exams. Here I can only remind you that after your initial announcements of the abolition of the pan-Hellenic examinations, the latest published plan talks about doubling. So I wonder if this is due to an increase of 548% in the costs of the introductory examinations. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Let's go to page 109 of the budget. An increase of 336% in the appropriations for additional and ancillary benefits, i.e. appropriations for overtime work. You're gonna tell me, is that bad? No, it's not bad. But why is it interesting? Because a little below, on page 212, it appears that from these increases mainly for overtime work, 81% goes back to the introductory examinations. Minister of Education, while students, teachers and parents are anxious to learn your plans about the new system of introduction to higher education after a long period of conflict and ammunition, I would say that statements on the abolition of the pan-Hellenics - which seems to have some kind of plan because in the budget you are making specific provisions - what does this plan involve? When do you plan to share it with the educational community and the National Representation? To go back a step: Is there a plan? You realize that for such a huge increase, if anything, we demand answers. I hope there are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u28	Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos has the floor from the Democratic Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u29	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the third budget voted by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. So there is time for everyone and, above all, for citizens to judge its actions. But you will allow me to tell you that in my area of development, in the last three years there has been no single investment that the government has started and completed. Not even one investment. Two investments tried to move on. One is known with the television licenses, with the pastures, and you know the end. And the second, which started and is not completed until now, is the National Insurance Act. The government has put the National Bank in adventures with its options. The main investor - a buyer who played a catalytic role in visiting the Prime Minister and Mr Kammenos to the United States of America has not brought seven months after the money to the Bank of Greece. Mr. Chakalotos is not answering the questions. And I don't want to say any more because I believe that the National Bank is a fund for the country. And under no circumstances will we do what SYRIZA did, with the questions, with his words, cause a problem for the National Bank. But, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, with your policy, you are primarily entitled to your opponents, especially all of us who have devoured over recent years. You are preparing swaps and you are entitled to Costas Simitis for joining EMU. Write about the PSI budget reasons and you deserve the policy, which Mr Venizelos will probably be sniffing from somewhere. The government celebrates foreign direct investment! But tell them, Mr Ministers, that one of them, 2.7 billion, one example, I bring to you, 1,1 billion, is from the 'FRAPORT', which you were sobbing and signed. But the rest is mostly from investments of older years. The waterways? Three years you first tested in September. Wastes via PPP? You have completed what the previous governments have signed. One left without signing the Peloponnese. He hasn't moved on yet. Greek? Three years and you have not yet taken the President-in-Office's decree on investment in the Court of Auditors. Development law? You say, dear Minister, a business after three years, which, through development law, you have given 1 euro? Not one, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. For the NSRF 2014-2020, which I also heard Mr Balaura say 10.3%, I would like to tell you that funding by 2020 is 24.3 billion. Right now, you've only got 2.2 billion. And look at the budget that you wrote, that he's not talking about absorptions anywhere, that Mr. Juliarakis knows about just advances. I am tabling the official list of the European Commission of the OPC, where absorption is not at 113, as Mr Haritsis says, but is at 9,32. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As for the Juncker package, there is a confusion among all of us. Although Mr. Flamouraris said on 4 September 2017 that we did not use the Juncker package, because he needs business plan and these are difficult things, yet the opposition is still saying it: the Junker package is autonomous. The government is not interfering, the governments are not interfering. It's a process between individuals and the package. However, there are four funds, which could have been completed to support small and medium-sized enterprises. I tell you: entrepreneurship fund, entrepreneurship fund II, investment fund, micro-credit fund, i.e. small loans up to EUR 25 000, for small and medium-sized enterprises. None of this has moved forward. The small and medium-sized enterprises also gave the answer to the new Republic and SYRIZA in the chambers: The Open Trusted Account. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] But let's see what you've done with PPC, the one you said it's a national crime to be sold and that those who sell it will go to jail, as Mr. Kammenos said? Today, you're selling three base points. What does that mean? Those who are from an energy prefecture will know. These units are entering the price exchange first, i.e. for the next ten years, whoever gets it, will have guaranteed money, more than he needs. As for housing loans, red housing and business? I have heard from the MPs that you will bring in some sort of regulation. Where's that arrangement you'll bring? I heard Mr Triantafylides the other day, who was begging Mr Papadimitriou and telling him that you need to bring in a regulation by the end of the year. Gentlemen, the last arrangement that you have voted on is not to give first house housing loans to funds up to 31-12-2017. From 1-1-2018, it will be all housing and funds. But, in this, we do not just have to criticise. Incompetence, lies and absence of design are your mixture. We have tabled a plan, the "Greek Plan". We seek a new agreement between the state, the business world and the workers to produce new wealth, new jobs, better wages with workers who can dream, participate in the development effort. This will ensure intergenerational solidarity through pensions and social solidarity to those who need it. Our definition of growth is the well-being of the many. Let me conclude, Mr President, by saying this: our progressive proposal does not talk about the profits of businessmen, as the New Democracy speaks, and does not want a country of imports and subsidies policy to become, as SYRIZA drives it with the closure of factories such as NESTLE, PITSOS, where we will have the products, but nothing will be produced here and everyone will live with a small allowance. The two hundred and fifteen thousand who challenged the artificial SYRIZANEL - New Democracy and want a new government proposal, are against the New Democracy to be the new progressive proposal and to defeat SYRIZA - ANEL strategically. That is why we call on all the citizens who were deceived by Mr. Tsipras and SYRIZA, all those who voted for New Democracy in the 'Tsipras or New Democracy' dilemma and those who abstained from the processes to unite our forces, to become the change we want to see. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u30	We continue with the speaker from the Golden Dawn Mr. Georgios Germenis. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. Mr. Germenis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. The State Budget for 2018 shows how you want to convince your foreign partners that you will do what goes through your hand to implement the third memorandum. You were asked to have a surplus of 3.5%, unlike 2.2% last year, and this demand will once again destroy the private sector, businesses and households and will almost zero off social protection programmes. Moreover, the increase in indirect taxes, despite the corresponding reduction in direct taxes, will not favour poor households, small businesses and self-employed persons. There can be talk of falling unemployment and increasing employment, but the structure of the labour market is totally problematic. According to a study by the Association of Industries, there will be, in addition to short-term and even zero-hour temporary and on-demand working hours, even carded work. That's where you became the worker, standing in line to get work coupons. You cannot believe that in these ways you will combat unemployment. All you will achieve is unworthy conditions and miserable working conditions. In particular, according to data from the Ministry of Labour, these last forms of employment and wages remain at low levels. You have levelled the standard of living of the Greek citizens, which you were supposed to be the leader of the workers' struggles. But all this is a past, and of course, when you received your ministerial thunderstorms, you forgot about them. Is the chair that provokes amnesia or mutates so-called ideologists into persuasive bodies of foreign interests? As regards the incomes of employees and pensioners, according to the European Central Bank, over the last eight years it has been cut by 50%. The unemployment rate shows that almost one out of two is unemployed and almost three out of four Greek and Greek women have not been able to find work for more than a year. As we said, a lot has changed since Tsipras became Prime Minister, a Prime Minister who, in fact, many Greeks expected it to bring the change, will bring some things from what he had in mind. However, we see that, as soon as he became Prime Minister, he forgot about the generation of 700 euros and now, on the basis of the budget, which you submitted for 2018, we are talking about around 300 euros and about a pocket on pensions of between EUR 200 and EUR 700. You tell me in this room if anyone can live with 200 euros. Not even for his cigarettes. As far as wages and pensions are concerned, reductions will make the lives of Greek citizens even more difficult. Once again, the results of your budgetary policy will be subjected to reductions in the personal difference between all the main paid and supplementary pensions until 2019, the freezing of increases by December 2021 and the abolition of the CSR for two hundred and eighty thousand low pensioners. Indeed, with the president of the Single Pensioner Network, about one and a half million pensioners are trying to live with an annual income of 4,500 euros. EEAY will finance EUR 226 million less than 2018, at the same time as the Agency's dues remain in height. And protection of the first residence is nonexistent, goes for a walk. The electronic auctions have already begun and the nightmare begins for thousands of our Greek fellow citizens who lose their first residence. End of 2017 also stops the Katseli Law and see what you will do then. Remember that if Samara was thrown by the Golden Dawn, you will be thrown by the anticipation of the auctions. It'll be a nurture on your neck. Remember what we are saying here today. The Greek economy has been found in a dead end in a vicious circle. You say that this is the last time such a Memorandum of State is passed. We here say you're talking about fairy tales. We are sure that once the budget is over, you will bring new measures by the end of 2017. That's what you're talking about, and here we are to say other words to be loved. On the contrary, we believe that if a genuine national government were in this position, which would draw up a fiscal policy in the light of national interests, then there would only be light in the tunnel in which we have entered. Only pensioners and workers could hope that their quality of life would change for the better. And this can only be achieved with the Golden Dawn, which has practically proved that a chair easily changes it with a cell in order to defend the country and deny what you are supposed to be doing for the Greek people, but we also exchange these benches so that the country can resurrect again, again the nation and smile on the Greek worker. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House, thirty two students and students and two educational attendants from the 2nd High School of Holargos (second section). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We close the first five, as I said, with Mr Christos Katsotis from the Communist Party of Greece and then Mr. Kokkalis will take the floor. In order for colleagues to be informed and to be in the Chamber, the next 50 colleagues are Mr Lazarides, Mr Cavadellas, Mr Spyridon Lykoudis - and many of the colleagues from microphones, Mr Lykoudis - Mrs Catherine Marcos and Mr Apostolos Karastasis. Mr Christos Katsotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. The endless war against the people is also reflected in this budget. You are fighting, but despite the individual differences, your strategy is common: the capitalist recovery, the fulfilment of the needs of capital. That is why, as left-wing satellites, you have not changed anything from the previous measures, so you have gone on to overthrows that have been difficult. We don't have time to list these dirty missions you took. Give your applause for this by the people's strengths, capital and associations. You are practicing a virtual reality of unemployment, of industrial relations, of insurance, of support for extreme poverty, of confiscations of homes of the poor and of all that is tormenting the people's family. The least of your policies are bad. But it always leads to the greatest. Unemployment is getting sick. The unemployed are unprotected. Invoke the OAED surplus. It's a disgrace! Only 10% of registered unemployed are subsidised by the gross unemployment benefit. You are, however, being richly supported by payroll and non-wage labour subsidies, as you call the wages and insurance of workers, with warm money being transferred to the pockets of business groups. Invite the social dividend and present yourself as socially sensitive. You're cutting off the poor table to give the impoverished. The working jungle with under-privileged wages of EUR 250 and 300, without collective labour contracts, with flexible forms of employment, which come and bind with the complete overthrow that you have achieved in the insurance system, is fully adapted to the needs of capitalist development. The EUR 345 to 384, the national pension as it stands, will be for everyone the guaranteed pension, and that must be understood. It is now also being paid to pensioners on a temporary basis. The compensation for the contributions paid is in the air, as is the subsidiary. You have implemented the most dirty mission and continue. You have already preferred the definitive abolition in 2019 of the CSCE, the reduction of pensions up to 18% from the recalculation. You have led the majority of pensioners to an undignified living. With the technical agreement on the third assessment, you proceed with the combination of insurance contributions with taxation and the payment of all contributions to the tax. This is the next step in the state insurance system, which abolishes the concept of an insurance fund and the contributions now go to the state koruna, are aimed at financing capitalists and repaying loans. The European Union continues its anti-government, reinsurance decisions. This is where the European Union is establishing the pan-European individual pension product, which is linked to the association of capital markets for raising capital. The capital requirement for the conversion of the insurance from social responsibility to individual, by strengthening private insurance, is fully met. You are making progress, gentlemen, in reviewing, abolishing, merged, slaughtering - rationalising it - essentially the benefits of welfare and disability pensions. With the trik of the single child allowance, cut off the family allowances for threeteen and tents. On the basis of annual income, it will be reduced further. This will further finance the social income of solidarity that you give to extreme poverty. You are deploring the record of fair growth, for which the SYRIZA - ANEL Government is struggling, allegedly against the injustice that New Democracy and PASOK served. A growth of capitalist, i.e. guaranteeing profitability. Either way, she goes along with the injustice, the suffering, the deadlocks, the poverty and the impoverishment of our people. The reality, however, is the undisputed namemaker. And that's barbarism, rot. That's what you're serving. And what do you predict? Surplus increased by 63% last year. We're talking about looting. But you will retain the great expenses for NATO and others, such as those that you have agreed with the US on F-16. But your dirty mission continues. With the amendment to the strike you are offering the tools to the capital for permanentization of all overturning, with a cemetery silence to force the working middle ages to ensure the uninterrupted recovery of profits. Use the same skill and whip, with repression, strikers arrests, agonists sentences. You want to disarm the working class and its movement, prevent better pay and work conditions from being reclaimed, to ensure that more and more exploitation is continued for increased profits of business groups. You call on democracy, you with 22% of the electorate, to be able to vote for memorials and measures for the majority of the people. For unions, however, you want to impose fifty plus one percent of the cash arranged members for a strike decision. On the other hand, you are maintaining as a democratic tool for employers, the associations of persons created by 15% of workers, associations that facilitate employers to reduce wages, transform full and stable work into part-time, rotating work and creating the middle-age labour. At the moment, the associations of persons and the middle ages that has been created have been awaited. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. In fact, who is the employer inactivates, is left unreserved to the existence, function and activity of the union? Who does not attempt with terrorism, blackmail and take over the manipulation of his members, the blockade of any racing claim? You walk, gentlemen, on the same road as Laskaris and Law 330/76, the Arseni Law and the famous Article 4. You'll stay in the story with black letters too. The working class, faster than you think, will pay you back. The organization of workers is their case. The trade unions shall elect their administrations on the basis of their statutes. They are authorized to operate, decide themselves or invite conventions and apologise to their members. No business has been done by the employer and the state in their operation. All other interventions aim to manipulate. You are all deeply mistaken if you think you can stop class struggle, the growth of the games. The class movement is preparing for the strike on Thursday 14 December. You will be given the answer, of course, with the demands they make. The JRC shall vote against the budget. Calls on the working class to organise, fight for its needs in a line of overthrowing the barbarity of the rotten system, to make their own case of labour power, the other form of organization of the economy, the central design of the country's productive capacity to meet the needs of our people guaranteed by labour control and the corresponding organisation of the social system based on the production unit. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u34	The reason is the Deputy Minister of the Red For seven minutes. Then we start the second five of our colleagues. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the 2018 budget is a critical budget, because it will lead us out of the third memorandum, but also in total from the memoranda that we have been in since 2010. The next day must be smooth, so that the Greek economy does not adversely affect and therefore the Greek society. Three must be the necessary elements of a budget that ensures this smoothness. Firstly, the budget should appreciate growth for next year. Secondly, the budget must ensure a budgetary balance. Thirdly, the budget must guarantee social justice. The draft budget, as tabled, tries and fulfils all three conditions. Firstly, it provides a growth rate of 2.5% for 2018, a primary surplus of 3.8% in GDP and measures for social justice, such as the full development of the social income of solidarity and social policy interventions in the critical area of dealing with child poverty. Especially for 2018, with the savings resulting from the, in fact, successful overview of primary operating expenditure - at least pilots, as has been done so far - are provided for a series of additional actions for social protection. Ladies and gentlemen, in the primary sector in 2015 we received an environment in which the man who works on earth - either the farmer or the farmer - was in an unfavourable tax environment. By law of 2013, subsidies from the first euro had been taxed and the advance tax paid had also been passed. There is a hopeless attempt by the opposition to stand, supposedly on the side of the poor people's strata, the socially weak, and in this regard, on the side of the weak and indebted farmers in our country. I was surprised to hear Mr Teddy's reference to rich and poor. I will repeat this, and I think that a comparison between the two will lead to safe conclusions. Is the rich or the poor farmers favouring the proposal of the Chief of Officer's Representation 'to replace the contributions of the OGA only with agricultural subsidies'? While the government is trying to create a protection net for subsidies, the opposition is calling on the government to confiscate subsidies. Does the rich or poor farmers benefit from the recent proposal for 9% tax of up to 10,000 on agricultural incomes, when today with Law No.4389/2016, Article 44, does the professional farmer have an extra tax of EUR 2 000, almost 8,500? Has the rich or the poor farmers favoured the sale of the Agricultural Bank in 2012, so that thousands of farmers are today with the debt slum in the old Agricultural Bank? Does the rich or the poor farmers favour the bill, which was recently passed on to protect agricultural income, compared to the 2013 Act, again on agricultural income? There is a lot of talk about auctions and they are being heard, you will allow me to voice irresponsible voices which are unaware of basic logic, but also of reality. First of all, the expression 'protection of first residence' is used. You will allow me to say that the right concept of the term and expression is 'protecting the only residence' rather than 'first residence'. In 2009 red loans were 20 billion and in 2016 over 100 billion. Let's see what it was. Because, at some point, we have to say things by their name and at least those who have misled us by omissions or deeds not to shake our fingers and say 'we protect the first residence'. From 2010 to 2014 ministerial decisions were issued that postponed the auctions, without the basic criteria for detecting the truly weak, with a universal criterion of 300,000 euros. This resulted in someone who had the opportunity to pay, with the adoption of this decision he did not pay, with the result that the second generation of those in debt in our country would be created. Therefore the procrastination in decision-making and the inability to identify the truly weak, who and must protect their unique residence, led today, in 2017, to the development of this problem, which this government is called upon to resolve and solve. We heard before Mr. Konstantinopoulos, from the party now a movement of change, PASOK - Democratic Reconciliation, forgetting the old and calling on Greek citizens to return to lawlessness, corruption and plight. The Greek citizens know and are aware of who brought the country into this situation. We will apologise in time and the elections. However, there is no question of any Greek citizen trusting such parties. In view of all this, Mr President, I would ask you to vote in favour of the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u36	Mr. Lazarides isn't here. I am not deleting him, and in his place I call on the celebrity, Mr. Lykoudi. Mr. Lykoudi, I'm doing you a favor, and I'm putting you in the position of Mr. Lazarides, who's missing, so that you can go to the office earlier to accept the wishes. If anyone hears from the ANE secretariat, I would ask Mr Lazarides to come to the Chamber, because I cannot keep the position constantly. Here, Mr. Lykoudi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, a year ago in the debate on the 2017 state budget in this Chamber I started my speech referring to a saying of a famous American economist, according to which astrology is more reliable than economic forecasts. Astrologers of the Ministry of Finance have fully justified me, because instead of predicting growth of 2.7%, we are faced with estimates of 1.4%, at most 1.6%. A discrepancy between 40% - 50% is, in my opinion, a huge failure with many visible and unfavourable losses. I will therefore bypass the 2018 budget forecasts on this point. However, I will bring back the welcome, great and, in my opinion, unanswered question: why should the country and the citizens be subjected to the extermination cost of more than EUR 100 billion in the SYRIZA antimonetary policy - ANEL for so many years, to get to a worse point or to the ambition of getting to the same point than was at the end of 2014? The left-wing government has cost the Greek people very dearly, irreparably, a total of losses in the biennial population. The Members of the Co-Population have an honest answer to that question. No silence, even if it's gross, it's not going to protect them. Ladies and gentlemen, I would necessarily like to emphasise some points in the budget which, in my view, are crucial. Firstly, the 2018 budget will have real repercussions - it is clear - because it is seeking even greater primary surpluses than required and is evacuating in various ways an economy that is weakening. Secondly, it is a budget of excessive austerity. Social costs and social benefits are reduced, new taxes are imposed. Sensitive groups and micro-retired people will suffer the greatest consequences. I think that, too, is clear. And then the follow-up from 2019. The exterior taxation of citizens, particularly small and medium-sized classes, is not only a ruthless form of legal robbery, but also a pure policy of poverty, deprivation. 13.4% of all taxpayers pay 63% of taxes. The government, having dug up a tax tomb on its citizens, is taking on the so-called social dividend, which, of course, does not result from some growth, but from overtaxation and a reduction in public spending. Acquisition and impoverishment are the recipe for surpluses. You remind me of something that an American president said: "When you put taxes on sheep, it's good to stop before you scratch the skin." Thirdly, the budget creates new illusions by assisting the newly destructive and misleading output account, and also clear from the memoranda, yours, ladies and gentlemen of the Partnership, memoranda. You are creating a climate of artificial optimism for the transition - supposedly - in a supposedly new situation without commitment and comitology. This new native left account, your own left, is perforated beyond. There is unbelievable cynicism, because it is known that poverty is scoring and the working jungle is waging. Extreme poverty currently affects one and a half million of our fellow citizens, particularly young people and the unemployed. Those who once sagely spoke of Bulgaria’s wages have today been imposed on them. One out of three private sector employees with parttime employment is paid EUR 407 a month mixed. 50% of the new recruits are parttime. All of them workers are now poor, since about 52% in the private sector is paid an average of EUR 800 per month, while one and a half million employees remain unpaid for many months. So when the government is dived into inaccuracies and deadlocks, obviously - as usual - it is resorting to the past. When she cannot support her policy, the refuge is known: "The others did the same" or "and were better before?", without shame, however, why did you take the power precisely because you falsely promised that you would do the opposite to the previous ones. Again a misunderstanding, instead of a plan of truthfulness about the future of the country and the well-being of its citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, when the government promises the big ones, but is unable to do the small ones, be it fires, be they sea pollution, floods, or electronic tickets - even there we failed - and plunges the country to the dawn and decline, rather than preparing it for the many and serious challenges, when dealing with critical issues of national importance, then it is quite clear that, as soon as this cycle closes, the better it will be for the country and the citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, political is the problem of the country. That is why the next day must find the forces of the wider democratic party ready for organisational, ideological, political and programme, so that, with the people's confidence, this country will change its course with a package of progressive changes for real and sustainable development, for the fight against social inequalities, for fair distribution of wealth rather than misery. The country needs a new, powerful stream of modernization and progressive reforms, faced with right-wing ethnicism and conservative choices, to relive its future with confidence, confronting its problems with weapons of collective self-awareness and truth and not lies and fraud, consensus and not division, serious and not obscene and populist political speech. Already huge wealth and income have been lost. Per capita GDP is at 2003 level. It's been a long time. The democratic citizens of the Central Left are responsible for giving citizens a progressive realistic vision and hope with a strong voice and an equitable presence within the great European family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u38	We've been informed that Mr. Lazarides is on an appointment with a minister. But because he is the only colleague from the ANLLs who has been signed to speak, I will not delete him with your tolerance. At a time when he's coming, he's going to speak. Mr Dimitrios Kavalellas has the floor from the Centroon Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u39	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in today's debate on the ratification of the 2018 budget, I would like to focus on some points, which I believe are obvious and which explain very clearly why the budget that we are discussing is an anti-development budget. However, in addition to its strong fundamental features, it is not realistic. That is why it has very little chance of achieving, on the basis of your forecasts and objectives, which have been disproved by you. I shall start with some indicative figures to show that neither the citizens prosper, nor the economic indicators, nor even those figures, are prosperous with this government. It is a budget which does not provide the guarantees that it will achieve its objectives, the first aim of which is to develop to 2.5%. But neither will the objective of increasing private investment reach 11.4% set by the government. And this goal is not feasible with its various distortions, bureaucracy, "subjects", the fact that no one can make their money out of the chest and take them somewhere to invest them. We need the investments, and we ask, where did you get them? We're looking at the donkey in the teeth. This is all an impediment to strengthening entrepreneurship and creating an investment-friendly environment. It's a government, which fell out of total predictions for the year we're in. We are now discussing the development of 1.3%. You were targeting 2.6%. I personally don't believe this 1.3%. As for private investment, as the Budget Office has confirmed, it amounted to 5.1% compared with 9.1%, i.e. 44% of forecasts and the original target. When we get away by 44%, I think I don't have to say much about what's going to happen. In order to understand the size of overtaxation, it is noted that in 2017 with GDP of less than EUR 180 billion, taxpayers pay EUR 2.5 billion more taxes than in 2007, which GDP was EUR 223,2 billion. At the same time, taxpayers' income in 2016, according to official figures from the Ministry of Finance, decreased by EUR 1.8 billion. Here we are living another delusion of SYRIZA. The government, pretending to be left, acts to the right and not to the right of some to say, because the left has always had a problem with ownership. The left will take us homes, what we were afraid would happen sometime to tell the truth. The Left exaggerates either by indirect or direct taxes. Perhaps that is how the government perceives the redistribution of income, as they did in the eastern countries that were completely impoverished. We still have communist views, while people are heading for a society where competition and information are available. So he took more in proportion to indirect taxation from the poor strata, which the government later had the great pleasure of throwing a scorch, the social dividend, to tell them how much he cares about the poor. And it did not create jobs through private, of course, investments. Because a civil servant, when appointed, does double harm, firstly, collects from the state and does not give the state. So we're losing two payrolls. My time is moving fast. I could say a lot of things I've noted. But I want to stay on red loans. "No house in the hands of a banker," that was the assurance, that was your motto. I cannot understand now what excuse you will face the people that voted for you, who believed you. Because if you take the houses from the Greek citizen, where will you stay? On the street, on the sidewalks? If he doesn't have to pay his loan, obviously, he doesn't have to pay a rent to go live somewhere. So prepare the stadiums, put them in a ranch, so that the world can sleep and get out of both prisons and all the "good" gentlemen with your systems and put the world there who will have no place to sleep.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u40	We shall now proceed with our colleague from the Group of Independent Members, Mrs Catherine Marcos. Mrs Marku, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u41	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the budget for this government - probably the latter - is as important as any government statement. No, it's not what we're saying, that when you lie so much at the end and you tell the truth, no one believes you. No, it's something even worse, even more outrageous. The government is glorified by lying, living with him, feeding with it. A few days ago, Mr. Tsipras had told us that growth would exceed 2% in 2017. What does he care? The idea is that so much is happening in the country, lies are so much that you won't even remember anything at the end. Nor will he be able to tell the truth. Besides, people have their own problems, they do not deal with the details in particular. I imagine that's what the government thinks. Well, I have news to you: People may not remember details, but they're recording negative events. It records the picture of the decline of the country and that government, as it recorded the dissolution picture and, in particular, the unscrupulous provincialism shown by the Government at the unnecessarily visit of the Turkish President. But let me come to the right-wing, right-wing budget. Since the government is playing supermarkets, both with the police officer and with the ranger, and with the poor and despised, but also with the circles of interests with which it is tantamount, I say not to play on this field and say very well: this budget is very classic, right-wing, right-wing. So listen, comrades, "first time left" listen to the left of "Filion", inmates of the taxes of the hardworking Greeks and Greeks, direct and indirect taxes are being launched further, while the distance between them has been extended to the rule of SYRIZA - ANEL. The tax system is becoming less progressive and more unfair. As much as Mr. Tsakalots wears, his political dignity has been battered. The surpluses for those who know basicly are challenging a policy that intensifys income reduction, reduces growth, serves right austerity. The government celebrates this. Some time ago, austerity and surpluses were being condemned. In fact, this cynic asshole is sick not only because it is done intentionally, but also because it contains the element of pleasure with lies. They're getting better - we're talking now! - in relation to the preliminary draft, the performance of social security institutions, mainly due to increased pension contributions and the abolition of a series of health and social policy expenditure. In other words, less social costs, more contributions. Bravo! That is left-wing policy! To vote with both hands, comrades! A lot of congratulations! The budget provides for real growth for the economy of 2.5%. This reminds me of the traveling salesman outside the court shouting: “I live dream. Don't wake me!' Where's the growth coming from, guys? From overtaxation and overtaxation or from investments not made or from exports, which are always undercutting imports? But there is no point in asking. The government may neither answer nor be interested in developing an elementary argument. Parliamentary education does not exist. "This is and if you like it"! Central government payroll and the wider public sector is launching more than 1 billion last year. This is the unrestrained moral argument of the Left and Mr Kammenos, who has already stated a central one! That's what we call 'we're going to be totally crazy'! It's enough that the clientele, with the hostages and dimenites, grows. And who cares about the general good? Besides, for this government, there is no general good, nor is there any minority, to respect them, nor any nation or anything. Yes, but employment will increase 1.7% and unemployment will decline. To end the fun. It is well known to everyone that wages have collapsed and people, especially women, prefer to close their house rather than look for a wage of EUR 300 and 400. Speaking of women, I hear a lot about the social liberalism of the government, the tolerance and the rights of our fellow citizens in weakness or those with peculiarities, women's rights and much more. But, for some time now, I have been amazed at either publicly or privately, humiliated personal attacks and sexually implying that even from ministers of this government to women, or that is the wife of the President of the Neo-Democratic Republic's Vice-President, whether she is the convicted wife of the former Minister or women working in the Venezuelan Embassy. I wonder, what are you? What is the true attitude and pursuits of the leadership, but also colleagues here in SYRIZA, who are otherwise cut off for their progressiveity? Ladies and gentlemen, the government sells the story of socialism, while establishing an Asian authoritarian state capitalism. It is you, that is, the government, as a permanent authority and the large centres of economic power with which you are engaged and traded below, and the people of beggars who you deliberately created. So, listen: These beggars, who now declare distanced, will rise from the couch just to punish you. That's what's gonna happen. It'll end the nightmare, you'll soon become a past. But then what? Not only have I ever concealed my view, but I have done so. Just to remind me of my particular support for difficult times of previous cooperation governments, governments of self-evident, rationale, the European prospect of the country. The social majority, which is coming, must now be expressed in a timely, political and programming manner, with the widest possible dimension and in the most spacious way possible, immediately, quickly, now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u42	We're closing the first five minutes with my colleague Mr. Apostolos Karastasis. Then it will take the floor - and the day-to-day group of ministers closes - the Deputy Minister, Mr Fotakis. In order to be notified and to be in the Chamber, Mr.Iason Folilas, Mr. Ioannis Giolas, Mr. Leonidas Gregorakos, Mrs. Sophia Vultesis and Mrs. Panagiota Dricelis are followed. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u43	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the budget reflects the government's planning for all the activities of the public administration, their planning, the course of the Greek economy and the development of the country. But there is another reason, which makes this budget very important. It is the country's last Memorandum budget. Indeed, the end of the summer of 2018 - and this will no longer be called into question by the Equatorial Opposition - will also mean the end of the nine-year-old - already then - of the country's monumental adventure. It is our government, ladies and gentlemen, that will achieve this. In a context of the catastrophe of the New Democracy, all the economic indicators record the constant growth potential of the Greek economy, which is strengthened by month. In addition, with the hard and targeted work of the Government in the field of finance, we have come to the Eurogroup decision of 15 June, where express reference is made to the exceptional use of European funds by Greece, which has brought the Greek economy more than EUR 11 billion over the last two years. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] I would also like to point out that the close cooperation that we developed with the European Investment Bank brought an additional EUR 2 billion to the Greek economy for 2017 only. In the next three years, the agreements that we have launched with the bank will create a leverage of more than EUR 20 billion, according to the estimates and official communications of the European Investment Bank itself. Of course, it should be noted that Greece is one of the first countries to take advantage of the Juncker package, which has so far reconciled projects of EUR 3.7 billion for important infrastructure, but has also advanced the financing of small and medium-sized enterprises. I'm going to set an example for the Juncker package. The TENA, the Greek Natural Gas Management Company of the Greek Gas, is financed with 110 million to connect the gas of the three regions of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace, Central Macedonia outside Thessaloniki and Central Greece, and even Patras, with the participation of the regional operational programmes of these regions. The Government has, from the outset, given a great deal of emphasis, support and support for research and innovation, so that the knowledge economy, through healthy and innovative entrepreneurship, is a new productive model for the country. Thus, the regular budget for research is projected to more than double in 2018 - we will also be told by the Deputy Minister - in relation to that of 2015, reaching 127 million, while the increase in the expenditure of the EDP, which will reach 206 million in 2018, is also projected. This funding includes the operation of the Hellenic Institute for Research and Innovation to support new scientists and to strengthen research, both in the IOIs and in the research centres, with the opening of a thousand new IOI members and a hundred new research posts in the research centres and, of course, the "Research - I - I Create - Innovation" programme with a budget of 500 million, where the first evaluation of proposals was announced in these days. With regard to the Public Investment Programme of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, I should like to note, ladies and gentlemen, that in the draft budget in 2018, the vicious cycle of total lack of planning, mismanagement and hoodful promises of previous governments in infrastructure and transport projects has been finalised. The Government, through the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, completed the five major motorway projects following negotiations with both the European Commission and the concessionaires. These are negotiations on the moving sand of our predecessors' agreements, which led to the return of billions of euros of EU resources. Of the five works I said four have been delivered. The "mutualized" work of E-65 comes out. We all know about him, who was designed without beginning and end. So we are now able to begin a new generation of major projects, which will have a real impact on society and on the economy and which the Greek people will not pay for by making maximum use of available resources. These are projects that will directly yield projects for the people and not for the projects. For the year 2018, the construction of anti-military works throughout the country has been launched, with a total of EUR 345 million, so that we do not again mourn victims of floods. And we know where the responsibilities are. The co-financed Public Investment Programme will also cover projects, such as the Thessaloniki metro, which were stopped. They were relaunched and will be put into operation by 2020. Rail projects that were abandoned without available funding were also included in the Connecting Europe Programme. In 2018, the new high-speed railway line of Piraeus - Athens - Thessaloniki will be delivered. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Projects such as the southern part of E-65, the Patra - Tower motorway and others, such as the metro line 4 and the extension of the tram to Keracini and Perama, which offer a solution to local communities problems and contribute significantly to the country's development perspective. I'll close the part where I started. The budget under discussion is the country's last Memorandum of Understanding. I am sure that next year I will have the honour of placing myself on the forecasts of the country's first left budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u44	Thank you for the time too. Before I give the floor to the Deputy Minister, Mr Fotakis, to make a statement to this House. The Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction: ‘Following the Memorandum of Cooperation on the National French Initiative (2015-2018), under the programme “The French language in international relations”. Mr. Fotakis has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, I will focus on those parts of the budget relating to research and innovation. This is because the knowledge of research and the innovation that comes from it form a new economy, an economy based on the objection of knowledge, the so-called 'knowledge economy'. It is the economy which, depending on the wider ideological trends, prevailing and the policies implemented, can make a serious contribution to fair growth and be a forerunner for social emancipation. It is the knowledge economy that we aspire to create a new productive model for the country, a model that will be next to society and promote healthy and innovative entrepreneurship, in contrast to past state-run and parasitic practices. This is actually reflected in the budget to be voted on. Despite the circumstances of the crisis, public spending on research continues to increase, following a path reversed by that of fat cows and flattered prosperity before the crisis, when the research was the easy target for cutbacks. This is the data: The regular research budget from 60 million in 2015 increased to 117 million in 2017 and is projected to more than double and reach 127 million in 2018. Accordingly, there was an increase in expenditure from the Public Investment Programme from 141 million in 2015 to 157 million in 2017, with a forecast of 206 million in 2018. The main contribution to these increases was the influx of some of the additional funds of 240 million euros managed by the Hellenic Institute for Research and Innovation, the ELIDEK to support young scientists and to strengthen the research carried out at the Greek AEIs and research centres. There had never been such a significant public investment in the investigation. In general, total expenditure on research and development in the country followed a similar trend. From 0.84% of GDP, which was in 2014, there has been a minimal increase - the lowest estimate so far - in 0.99% of GDP for 2016, an increase corresponding to 245 million euros, despite the very difficult economic situation. And it should be noted here that for the first time in 2016 the private sector also contributed significantly, in which expenditure mainly increased by 29% or in absolute numbers by 261 million euros. I would like here to submit the relevant information from the National Documentation Centre. [[At this point the Deputy Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr Constantine Fotakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This is another example of the business world's confidence in the recovery of the Greek economy, regardless of whether it is expressed openly. But here is a simple but crucial question: what is the impact of these numbers on society, which is fighting to stand up in adverse conditions created by the crisis? To answer this question, we should see the resonance of research more widely in society, based on the three main pillars of the research policy we have deleted. The first pillar is about the most important deposit available to the country, the people, the exceptional human potential, especially the young scientists and researchers, who are inevitably at the heart of every effort to recover. The data for the large one-sided fleeing abroad, the Brain Drain, as well as for the underemployment or heterogeneity, the Brain Weste is relentless. Youth unemployment, depreciation of work and, in particular, lack of career prospects are the main causes of this phenomenon. Treating Brain Drain is a direct priority for the Government. A number of measures have been designed and already implemented in both the public and private sectors. The creation of new quality jobs for research, academic careers in attractive environments that act as attractions to young researchers and skilled scientists is the first of them. The opening of a thousand new members of the ICES and a hundred new posts of researchers in the research centres, after a period of seven years of drought, the multiple possibilities of supporting post-doctoral researchers, particularly through the actions of the EIDEEC, with attractive working conditions and career prospects, are typical examples. The first faint but tangible indications for the reversal of Brain Drain are already visible. Of the thousand sixty-nine proposals for research projects by postdoctoral researchers, which have been submitted, namely young scientists at ELIDEK, the sixty come from young scientists abroad who wish to return to Greece to carry out the projects proposed. In fact, several of them come from very good foreign universities. But also in the private sector, actions have been designed and implemented by the Directorate-General for Research and Technology, which create quality jobs, such as the "Research - I Create - Innovative" programme, to which I shall refer briefly, and the new Staff Regulations for Research and Development of Innovative Enterprises. In the same context, the prospects for attracting research and development of foreign and dynamic companies in Greece appear exceptionally in the same context. Soon I expect us to have some very good news on this point. The second pillar relates to linking research to innovative entrepreneurship and is based on two main axes. The first to develop new suitable financial instruments, such as the Extraordinary Business Participation, Equifund. This superstition contains three funds and aims to support innovative entrepreneurship and the use of research results which are exploitable and already produced in the research centres of the country. The superstition facilitates the creation of new startups and startups, supports their operation at an early stage and strengthens the next stage of their maturation and growth. All of this is adapted to the particular needs of entrepreneurship in the time of crisis. This is a structured, systematic, integrated and step-by-step approach to the creation of the knowledge economy. Also, innovative entrepreneurship is supported by collaborative projects between public research bodies and businesses, by the great "Research - Creating - Innovative" action managed by the Special Service of the General Secretariat of Research and Technology. This is a separate public investment in research, which is estimated to support about four thousand four hundred new quality jobs for young scientists. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] I conclude in two minutes, Madam President. I would like here to refer to the results of the first phase of this programme, which has recently been announced and which, in the next three years, will be financed through available public funds amounting to EUR 393,000,000, six hundred and eighty-five research projects, of which the four hundred ninety-eight concern cooperation with public research bodies. I would like to put forward relevant information here. [[At this point the Deputy Minister, Mr Konstantinos Fotakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] I come to the third pillar of our policy, the one associated with flagship initiatives taken by the state to highlight the social dimension of research, the promotion of issues that have direct social implications and interest. An example is the creation of a network of personalised medical or medical precision, as it is said. This is a flagrant action that puts Greece in a timely manner on the map of medicine for the future. Emphasis is placed on the fact that research in this field is directly translated into clinical applications with a coordinated coexistence of the powers available to the country for the prevention and treatment of cancer with modern genomic approaches. This flagship action has already begun to take place at the initiative of the State. It should be stressed that a primary target, in cooperation with the Ministry of Health, is the emerging new effective treatments of cancer to be accessible to the public health system for the benefit of all patients in need. Another emblematic initiative that develops in collaboration with the Ministry of Rural Development is the application of new technologies to agri-foodstuffs to highlight the specific characteristics of the Greek flora and fauna, in order to create additional value in Greek agricultural products. Ladies and gentlemen, this was only a part of the research and innovation actions supported by the budget to be voted on. Moreover, the flagship initiatives, which will be supported, are expected to give the wintertime for many years Greek society potential and something very important, inspiration, to face challenges in the coming days after the crisis on better terms. The 2018 budget is a key step in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Minister. Now Mr. Fotillas has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Complex, you are today bringing the 2018 budget, another budget of painful measures against the middle class and the weaker economic strata. Cuts everywhere. At the heating allowance 50%, after last year you had reduced it more than 50%. Ladies and gentlemen, now don't people get cold, freeze, die from cold? Eliminate the CSCE and impose extra taxes, even indirect taxes, which, as you know, mainly affect the weakest, those you are supposed to be protecting. Like the abolition of reduced VAT on the islands and, of course, the recalculation of pensions under the famous law of Mr Katrugalos, which pensioners already understand. And for growth, from 2.7% of what you thought you'd achieve, slowly you're starting to revise downwards. At the beginning of 2.1%, after 1.9%, now you say 1.6%, but the evidence indicates that it will reach even lower, close to 1%. In other words, ladies and gentlemen, 0% growth for 2015, minus 0.3% in 2016 and for 2017 it is a question of whether growth will be achieved close to 1%. Mr. Vetta - I don't see him, I guess he went out - you've got a lot of nerve. You're asking us to tell you where we're going to find the money to reduce taxes. You are even asking for specific codes. Indeed, in 2014, what codes did you give us to justify the various benefits you promised, such as the reintroduction of the basic salary to EUR 750, the third pension and much more? It would be easy for us, you know, to tell you that we'll find the money from the mortgage loan, from the German indemnity and the other madness you sold back then. But we're not like you, charlatan politicians. So I will tell you, Mr Vetta, where the resources will be found. By reducing VAT, by reducing taxes on businesses, by completing the investments that you have not implemented for three years and bringing new investments. By creating a pro-investigative climate, by reforming - and I am not talking about what the institutions are asking us to do, I am talking about the ones we are asking for in public administration -, by hiring via ASP and not by 'a window', as you are doing, three years now. With an evaluation programme, mobility - not only voluntary - incentives and counter-incentives and publication of all the actions of the agencies in the DISTRIBUTION. By abolishing a series, I will not say from useless, but at least luxurious agencies, under the current budgetary conditions - some of them have been told by our special speaker -, such as the National Farm Movement Museum, the Public Port Authority - I add the Tsunami Warning Organisation. Did you know this guy? - as well as the infinite state subsidies of hundreds of thousands of euros each, to various private clubs, unions, such as the Association for the Memory of Kolokotronis, the Association of Friends of the Sky, the Association - listen, Mr Georgiodta - War Arts Kures Tsilaubla. Did you know him, Mr. Georgioda? But the government grants him. Reforms to justice, creating committees of judges to ensure that investors directly make the investments they want, legally overcoming bureaucracy, creating permanent and well-paid jobs rather than the misery of the EUR 360 that you have created. In education, creating foreign-language undergraduate and broadening the relevant postgraduate programmes, with the establishment of private universities that can attract thousands of students, as is done in our neighbouring countries, Bulgaria, Romania, Turkey. Finally, it can be done in health, through public-private partnerships, without redundancies and without wage reductions, by taking advantage of EOPY doctors involved, as well as doctors of free professionals for the establishment of a family doctor, with a free choice so that public hospitals can be dismantled and that there is real primary health care. We, you know, take their doctors as our allies and not corrupt ones, as Mr. Paulakis unreservedly describes them. We want timely campaigns to defend public health and not those that have been delayed and poorly done by the Ministry of Health, such as in the case of measles and seasonal influenza. We arrived in 2017 to die of measles! So, Mr. Vetta, we're going to make changes and we're going to find money, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, with solutions that you don't think about because of your narrow-mindedness and your ideas. Because in 2014, you know, we had a memorandum, but the VAT in the focus from 23% went to 13% and not from 13% to 24%, as you did. Taxation had gone from 25% to 20% and not to 29% and over 40% if we also take account of the tax on the dividends you have imposed. The tax rate of the company was set at the same level as the tax rate of the company. And yet, we had a memorandum. But we are not going to chain ourselves or chain ourselves, Mr. Vetta, outside the airports, we will not find forests in the Greek, we will not persecute anyone who wants to invest, but we will look to create the right climate to facilitate investment by creating new jobs. As soon as I talked about public health, I'll close with it, with a revelation about the CDC. You have in all lawful, almost complete, open international reagent contest for HIV. The one who recommended his cancellation was your wife, Mr. Flabourari. Unfortunately, the Minister is not here. I'm giving you the first document. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Jason Fotillas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As if that were not enough, not only did you not declare new, as the General Accounting Office of the State points out, as shown in the documents I will present to you and then I will submit to you, but you have received, without paying, reagents from another company. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Jason Fotillas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You're being chased by this company, which you hired, which, uh, of the miracle, who is it? SIEMENS. Shame on you! I would also like to present this document to you. Teaching for 'SIEMENS', because you have taken the reagents for them, but you haven't paid them for three years now. Shame on you! That's your morale. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Jason Fotillas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Needless to say, I am voting against this inappropriate budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u48	SYRIZA's MP, Mr. Giolas, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Madam President. I will try to finish my speech in six minutes, with a slight tolerance, as happened with previous speakers. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the budget debated, of course, reflects the state of the country's economy, which does not leap, but is now abandoning the negative sign of the recession and is looking boldly and optimisticly next year at growth rates expected to run at 2.5% upwards compared to 1.6% this year. The country leaves behind the recession and stagnation and looks forward to improving the economic indicators, but also the real economy, meeting the social needs and improving the daily lives of citizens. Of course, we cannot and should not claim that all the components of the economic sizes rise, since we have another Memorandum of Understanding. The tax burden on the medium-sized economic strata is still high and indirect taxation, which is supposedly affecting the people, has not improved both in terms of direct taxation. It is also known that wages in the private sector, but also in the public sector, remain well-established, especially extremely unfair for young workers. But is that the course of the economy, which we have chosen? No, of course, ladies and gentlemen. It is well known that the fall in the country's GDP of 25%, the fall in unemployment to 27%, the overcompensation of the public, but also of the private debt, was a result of the economic crisis imposed on our country by the choices of the parties, the MPs who are now asking us to speak and have literally governed the place by driving the people to its overwhelming majority in impoverishment. In contrast, then, in those years, a small group of people intertwined with state power, identified and encouraged by the corrupt political system and its staff, as well as over loaned, have fled to other states and paradises over 500 billion euros. The recent Paradise Papers have revealed to the general public the systemic, global and organised practices - and here too - for the most favourable taxation of the richest and multinationals, as has also been pointed out by the Finance Commissioner Pierre Moscovici, who has called 'vabir' for those who benefit from these immoral tax evasion practices. Unfortunately, they were in our country, and it is well known how they were excavated and who were those who "hailed them". However, there are elements and credentials, ladies and gentlemen, which make us think that they give the nature of dynamic and sustainable development to our economy, as is reflected in the budget sheets: investment and exports, which are the safest indicators of good and improved progress in recent years. In particular, foreign direct investment increased by 142% in 2016 compared to 2015, even above 2014 levels. The further increase in the current year continued to be impressive, since the first nine months only increased by 69% compared to the corresponding year of 2016, with an estimated absolute figure of 4 billion euros for the whole year. And we're always talking about foreign investments. At the same time, and exports follow a clearly upward trend, after exceeding any official estimate, so that forecasts now determine the growth for 2018 to 4% to 5%. Healthy entrepreneurship and extroversion mark the development model in which the country has now passed, whether you want it or not. But entrepreneurship is not unreasonable and unreasonable, but entrepreneurship, which is friendly to the existing institutional framework and obeys, takes the necessary measures to protect the environment and above all respects the rights of workers which have been violated over your days. It is necessary to highlight some recent positive developments that the government's financial staff have brought us to an end, confirming the good course of the country's finances, and I would mention in numerical terms: Firstly, the successful issue of July 2017 of our five-year bond issued by our Government at a final rate of 4.625% and with comfortable over-covering, in contrast to the imperfect and unsuccessful development of the respective bond issued by the Samara - Venizelos government on 10 July 2014, at a higher rate of 4.9% and at a bid by investors of just 1.5 billion euros, that is, half of the 3 billion euros requested. Secondly, the successful conclusion of the voluntary swap of twenty old bonds with five new ones, just two to three weeks ago. This success was twofold: on the one hand it showed the highest percentage of acceptance, about 86% of the holders of previous bonds, and on the other it moved the five bonds to corresponding long maturity dates, that is, in 2023, 2028, 2033, 2037 and 2042, thus helping to alleviate the way in which they were repaid over time. A third element is the history of a low record of ten years - before 2009 and the years of the blossoming of economies - of the ten-year Greek bonds, which was achieved just yesterday. Fourthly, it is expected that the issue - perhaps in the spring of next year, 2018 - of a new seven-year bond that will not take place for'recognition' alone, but is expected to end in real market conditions, thereby ensuring a 'cushion' of liquidity by which the country will declare this present on the markets and strengthen our efficiency and economic progress after leaving the medium-term on 21 August of the year ahead. Fifth and lastly, we must stand up and show a reduction in the unemployment rate to 20.8%, recorded last September, and a fall in the number of unemployed below a million. We are not proud, but we have reduced it considerably, at least in 1/3. Without undermining the value of individual budget indicators, with the increases in specific expenditure and revenue allocations, the value of the identified positive data shows the positive climate in our economy and it is intended that we are now moving wisely, consistently and consistently on a development path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u50	Mr Leonidas Gregorakos has the floor from the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about a budget that I believe is the last budget for SYRIZA. Because, three years now, the rulers are trying to convince us to hope in the unbelievable. With the paradox that took over power, they are now trying to transform reality. Let us remember, however, a great saying by François Mitterrand, 'the facts are stubborn and do not listen to us'. So the question that is being raised today is simple and at the same time, ladies and gentlemen, it is hard. Because I think you're trapped in a huge delusion. I do not believe that you did so consciously to the Greek people. I do not hide from you that this question has been tormenting me for several years now. I can't believe you didn't believe everything you said. I think that's how he thinks every good person in Greece today. We may be political opponents, but that does not mean that we are also enemies and that everyone cannot think about what is happening. So I find it hard to accept the interpretation of some people that you knew that all the declarations you made to the Greek people are false and callippi. I know the space left from the university. I know he found ideas, obsessed, strangled, but he was moral. And I separate this Left, which governs Greece today, from your ANE partners, because I am convinced that this is a far-right party, which has very cynicism and amoracism. And it seems to me that you - I know many of you - accept such a coalition, such a minister, such a man. So I'm reviewing my views because I saw a lot of assholes. I mean, I'm not hiding you that your adaptation was nice. Besides, adjustment is not unrevolutionary. Marx said so himself. "It is the most revolutionary, socio-economic system, because it has the ability to adapt to ever-changing reality," he said. So he explained the strength and durability of his theory. But let me come to our health. There's no Minister in charge here today. You're rejoicing. Why are you on board? The state grant for the EEA in 2015, that is with our budget, was 1 billion, in 2016 it was 502 million, in 2017 it was 314 million and in 2018 the state grant is 100 million, that is 68.15% reduction. About public hospitals now. I can't stand lying. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Leonidas Gregorakos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We had it 1,860, we gave it 1,620, you took it to 1,320 in 2016, in 2017 to 1,303 and you now delivered it to 930 in 2018. How are the hospitals going? The hospitals can't work. The Public Investment Programme for Health from 64 million last year, you get it to 35. We had sixty - nine thousand permanent staff, and we also had empty organic positions of thirty - five thousand. That's how we delivered them to you, the hospitals. Today there are sixty - two thousand - seven thousand fewer - and forty thousand empty organic positions. The debts of EEAS to third parties are 910 million now, in September 2017 and 552 million of the hospital debts. In other words, the ministers come out and say 'all good'. Don't you read? The hospital grants for uninsured hospitals were 2 million in 2014, 1,200 million in 2015, 1 million now in 2107. There are two hundred and four thousand uninsured of all categories. We are also being accused, and you are being accused, of the fact that all the Balkans are on duty in the state hospitals in surgery and especially in heart surgery. I'm filing that, too. [[Mr Leonidas Gregorakos presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Two thousand five hundred patients close their eyes to the symptoms. I hope they haven't closed their eyes forever. I give you this graph to see that in 2009 there were eleven thousand heart surgery and today there are seven thousand eight hundred heart surgery in Greece. Is life better? It's better or they can't go to a hospital in either state or private.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u52	They're not nervous.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u53	You'll see that. Here, I'm filing that too. [[Mr Leonidas Gregorakos presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] There's no way he's getting into a hospital because the list is far away and, secondly, it costs too much. Here, I'm presenting it to give it to Mr. Papadopoulos. [[Mr Leonidas Gregorakos presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I've asked a question for the NSA the other day. Ask how many die on the street in the ambulances, because there are no mobile hospitals. Three incidents I have now sent to the Minister to answer. Why were they never able to reach intensive care units? He ate them the road trip, the long road to development. [[Mr Leonidas Gregorakos presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[Noise in the Chamber]] Let's go down. You'll tell us. You tell us every day. We're sick of you lying to us. We don't want any more lies. You're going to close the third review with a lot of lies, because you think you're going in 2019 to run elections. Oh, you're not going! You won't be able to go. It's so big a social upset that you won't be able to.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u54	Mr. Gregoraco, you're short. Do not deal with other issues
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u55	I shall conclude, Madam President. It seems to me that you left-wing left-wingers do not think that you will change this great slogan, which at least forty years before, we have said, 'The people do not forget what is right'? You will overthrow it to us and we will say that 'the people do not forget what is on the left'. Happy birthday to you!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u56	Mrs Sophia Vultusis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Madam President. After the signing of a supplementary memorandum, the debate on the budget is progressing in a purely bureaucratic process, because at the time the budget, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance are being discussed here are absent from Greece, Mr Tsipras in Paris on the climate conference and Mr Tsakalotos in New York to participate in an economic forum. In short, they have shut down the evaluation, signed up once again what they put in front of them, brought in another material budget and took the streets back. After all, Mr Tsipras is not interested in the situation in the country. The only thing he cares about is building the profile of international personality and using demagogic even national issues. Aristotle has said it in "Politics": "Democrats and tyrants turn people's attention to national issues, put their country into national adventures while pooring their nationals so that they - the nationals - do not care about them, but the way in which they take the eulogy for their families." This is what Mr. Tsipras is doing today, loyally following the footsteps of another great demagogue, of Diligiannis: Defiles Greece and displays himself as a great, international personality. So great a personality, who has accepted indisputably that our domestic borders have been closed for two years! And to serve this great cause, what has happened with Mr Erdogan. We were presented as something important, that after sixty-five years Turkey's President comes to Greece. Like Erdogan's another thing is as president and another when he comes as Prime Minister. And by the way, I found that Mr. Kammenos has left for war again! He was gone while Erdogan was here. He didn't even go to the official dinner, and now he's having it as resistance. Yesterday, again, firearms, palscences, helmets, arterials and voices of defense of the old terrain. Mr. Kammenos obviously expected the enemy to leave so that he could rejoin the war. Ladies and gentlemen, because you say a number of things about the numbers, which are propaganda of numbers. Of course, after all these subtle memorials, the handover of the Greeks' loans, provided and not, to foreign funds, to the auctions with one click, the cutter, the eternal superstition, the prerogative of measures for the next few years, the debt cutter, which made him a growth cut, we have in front of us another Memorandum budget, which seems to sound like a fairy tale for young children. You're traveling and you're saying we're getting out of the Memorandum. I'm sorry, but how do we get out of the memorial? Could colleagues tell us what my colleague told us before about the bonds, how much did you have done with the bonds in 2015 and 2016? By 30% you've done it. Of course, if you sign five - six Memorandums even two - three supplementary agreements will fall. They have you in their hands! You're telling us about an explosion in tourism. But are you not telling us: How much has the average expenditure been on your day for every visitor? At 435 euros. But you received it at 590 euros. It is planned, he says, to increase GDP, which is again lower than the one you received in 2014. How much does the general import price index increase every month in industry, i.e. imported inflation? How much has the trade deficit gone, telling us we're getting out of the memorandum? Now it's announced in the tenth is about 18.5%. Where has the economic climate gone? Where has inflation gone with the taxes you're putting on again and again? Of course, you also represent the protectors of the poor, you who have poored all of Greece and on your days - and you cannot question it because it is Eurostat's evidence - you have increased child poverty to eleven units. It was 26.6% in 2014, according to UNICEF, and you took it to 37.5%, or eleven points up, in 2015. Creditors will have loved you, of course, because they see that you are kneeling the country and that was their purpose and they do so thanks to the rule of two demagogues. Two demagogues, which seem to have sought money outside a memorial, outside the control of the lenders, and found them, dealing with arms and not giving an account of what pockets the money comes to Greece for the refugee. You, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, are so sensitive to wars and humanitarian disasters, did not know what has happened in Yemen since March 2015? Is it possible to tell Mr. Kammen that you have now taken it? But neither Kammenos is ashamed of his lies, nor Janakopoulos, nor Skourletis, nor Kotzias, who is silent. I am referring to Mr Kotzia - and I challenge him - because on 27 March 2015 the Ministry of Foreign Affairs issued a statement saying he was concerned about the consequences of the Yemeni population. In 2015 you knew what was happening when you let Kammenus say and do what he did! Ladies and gentlemen, our country has been governed by demagogues many times. However, there is no historical precedent for the country by two demagogues at the same time. And indeed, this is all that's been happening for the first time in our country's history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theory, after taking part in the educational programme "Research and we are discussing Governor Ioannis Kapodistrias" organized by the Foundation, thirty students and students and two educational attendants from the 2nd New Ionian High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Drittelli has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, it is customary for the debate on the state budget to be the top debate in the Greek Parliament and, obviously, it is also a glorious field for all parties to unfold their programmes and their positions before the Greek people. Instead of that, from yesterday until today, we have seen a triumph in the skull - I would say - which is mainly manifested on the part of the Officerial Response with an obvious discomfort, given that it has been constantly injected into a bogeyman pork - I would say -, incomplete and zero opposition, with which it has been used to us lately. Of course, if I am to be quite honest, beyond the dangers, but also the well-known arguments for the au thority of the government, for tax raids - with some, of course, sometimes bright breaks - for incapacity, for scandals no longer exist, we can detect, when they talk about cutting expenditure, their obsession with redundancies, the dismantling of the social state, cuts in health and education. And at this point, of course, the difficult starts and returns to her well-known rhetoric narrative with the arguments I have outlined. Because I listened carefully to Mr. Lightla. It was good what he told us. Of course, he forgot to tell us why all this did not do so in the past few years, throughout the decades that they have ruled. Of course, they don't have to answer that. I imagine that we are all aware and that the Greek people have realised that this is an ideological direction which, unfortunately, most of the time, is identical to some of the memorial choices they have had to make in previous years. They may have reduced the VAT to 13%. I will not say, of course, what the countermeasures were. We all know them. It was the redundancies in educational staff, the cleaners, the closure of ERT, the assignment of critical functions in the public sector, which they completely transferred to private interests. However, this debate, as much as they are now avoiding it, in a month or two, must take place, because at these points we will be dealing with before the Greek people, and we are interfering with them every day anyway. So don't rush - because we've been living the theatre of the absurd here lately - to share chairs, to appoint ministers, to take others out of the ballots and to put others on, because the very wise people tell us that whoever is raped is finally stumbling. So, then, the Opposition and especially the Critics - and I say this again - is not particularly excited - and has shown it - by the fact that this year's budget debate is taking place on the basis of the country's exit from the memoranda. It is not enthusiastic that this budget is the second consecutive with high growth rates for the Greek economy. Of course, it is not fascinated by the prospect of even better progress for the real economy and for the next period. It is not only the Greek Government or the Members who support it, but also the senior European officials - and not only - who say every day that Greece has returned a page. This budget, in my view, reflects in the most glaring way a strategic option for the government to strengthen even more vulnerable groups, which have been most affected by the memoranda in recent years, in the last decade, to mitigate these wounds and, at the same time, to reduce these wounds, to give a way out of the economy. Unemployment, therefore, in 2018 will fall to the lowest levels since the beginning of the crisis, with ten units falling compared to the period of governance of the New Democracy and PASOK, while at the same time supporting private consumption growth for a second year and increasing the social protection framework for the weaker. This budget, in spite of the difficult budgetary conditions, creates the conditions for the growth of the economy and its indicators to have social recompense and for the first time for citizens to see a part of the sacrifices return as a result of a fairer growth. This emphasis on the social dimension of the budget is reflected in forecasts for 2018. It is obvious, ladies and gentlemen, that the 2018 budget reflects and difficult commitments in critical policy areas, such as taxation. This is a criticism that we can accept and have a debate. It contains restrictions, including burdens, which make sense to concern citizens. Improving the real economy obviously requires substantial tax relief, and that is precisely the bet for the next period. The exit from the memorandum in the summer of 2018 will allow for a change in the tax policy mix, with substantial interventions for households, for small and medium-sized enterprises, for free traders, for farmers producing the wealth of the economy. Greece's exit from the tough financial framework of the programmes will create room for relief from the burdens of those who are currently under pressure, but also for more aggressive support for development, infrastructure and investment. The realistic forecasts of the budget for growth of 2.5%, to increase investment by 11%, to increase the purchasing power of citizens and to reduce unemployment create the preconditions for the end of the hard period of their memoranda and uprooting policies for the vast majority of citizens. The next day for the Greek economy has begun. The next few months are the last of the Memorandum. Greece will move on with society upright, with social justice and with everyone involved in this development. As much as the opposition does not like these developments, the next period will mark the end of the adventure and the beginning of the era of fair growth that we all want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, too. Mr Hadjisavvas, Member of the Golden Dawn, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u61	Therefore, the mockery of the Greek people continues for the alleged budget of revenue and expenditure of the State for the following year. When we see that it is almost impossible to budget the prerequisites that will come next week or shortly thereafter, when you cannot budget the immediate measures, will you budget the revenue and expenditure of 2018? The budget therefore brings new reductions in pensions, wages, huge unemployment rates and many other anti-grassroots measures. This is the first time this year's work balance shows that the majority of workers work in a flexible form of work, which means wages of up to EUR 360, rotating work, some days working long, some days working very few depending on what suits the employer. The money that young people get as a salary doesn't make them survive. They work mostly for psychological reasons, so they don't have to be told they're sitting. All SYRIZA speakers are listening today to say that there is a framework of protection for vulnerable social groups and that it is facing child poverty. You know that sensitive social groups are listening to us right now. They've seen their fathers' wages cut off, they've been unemployed, they can't have the selfless, and you're saying you've made some piles in schools. These children who are hungry in schools have neither clothes, nor heating in their homes, have any toys. They live this heavy climate of their parents. It's not just food for a child. He lives the difficult situation his parents are going through. Tragmatic and surreal, of course, but also tormenting it is to hear the PASOK tell you that you are commemorative - the most memorial - and to blame you for the destruction of all the levels of the economy of Greek society. Whether you're ideologically loyal to SYRIZA or you're an opportunity in this party, I wouldn't in any way want to think how I would feel if my own body had done that. Is that possible? You called on people not to pay ENVIRONA, not to pay toll, to stop auctioning in every way! Today the ENVY continues, the tolls were multiplied and the auctions became electronic. You are, of course, working with various legislations to serve some of these needs of your original electoral base, but to know that she has now welcomed you. He left with Constantopoulou and Lafazani and most of them won't even go to vote. There is no other portability in Greek society. In PPC you have set thirteen charges, most of which are irrelevant. Inside them, there is even the ERT, which also takes advertising. Why is the Greek taxpayer forced to pay ERT as well, once he receives receipts and advertising? Otherwise, cut off advertising, do not interfere in the ERT program and can the Greek taxpayer who pays her to see the program she wants. You can, of course, in PPC in the same way that you are now collected to put traffic charges, put VAT, put the shop tax, and if they do not pay, cut them off. Will the loan and the compensation be entered in the budget at any time by you who made such strong resistance to the conqueror? Neither did you collect large sums of money from smuggling, nor from the famous lists and the old and new ones. But you say, you in SYRIZA, that there is an increase in collection, that EVA is surplus, and you said that this increase in collection and payments has been made, because the taxpayers have complied with. It was not because the taxpayers complied. It was because accounts were seized. You take the money from the bank without asking them if they need to pay the next day. Many people now listening to us have experienced this - they have been seized by accounts - and many more will experience it. As far as the transactions with plastic money that helped to put everyone behind the Greek society to contribute to this struggle, we have on the one hand the consumers who prefer to make their purchases with plastic money, with the card to help. We have dealers and shops that have also installed machinery, not voluntarily, but whatever. The banks, however, will not help in this joint effort at all? Why would there be a commission in these transactions, since they're electronic? They're leaving the other account, they're going to the other account. In other words, the money remains in the banks and manages them. There is, of course, a big deal of business that goes away, especially from northern Greece. I don't know how the budget can be helped if some of them return. The world that does not live in those regions believes that it is a big decision and economic and social decision to move one to Bulgaria, for example, but that is not the case. That's not the case, and you know why? For the inhabitants of northern Greece, when taking their business to Bulgaria, does not mean that their family is moving. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I just want a minute, Madam President. They only take their business to Bulgaria. They go in the morning and go home at night. There is no big social change. They don't move their children or their families. However, these are mandates from the European Union which, of course, you cannot change. Although this European Union, this euro will collapse in the coming years. That's clear. Unfortunately, until 2021, as they say in many economic forums, the insurance system will collapse, no matter what poor Greece does, no matter what memos and sign. There will, of course, be a retraction, where we will go to a two-speed Europe with the poor relatives of Europe mocking them a little and underestimating their own euro. But that will also fail. But why did all of you social democrats, Bolsheviks, panicked capitalists with Brexit and exit Britain from the European Union? It will look over there what it is like for an economy to function without the businessman having the limitations and commitments of the European Union on his neck and, of course, without the euro loop. This will continue to be the case, however, by German and French professionals. And that is where the reaction will begin, because they will not be able to compete with Britain's economy. In closing, I'm going to say something about the Prime Minister. Before becoming Prime Minister, we saw him obsessed with a book that reads it day-to-night and mentioned it in all his interviews, sometimes by wrong name, "The Doctle of Shock". We thought that this book on the doctrine of shock was read to be prepared to deal with those who are going to implement it. Finally this book read it, memorized only to implement it: A very powerful blow to the Greek society that left it numb and then the new destructive measures that have passed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u62	Finish, Mr. Hajisavva.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u63	I'm closing, Madam President. Now as to whether this budget is the last Memorandum, do you know where it will appear? It should be in the next budget, the 2019 budget, so that you are not shown to be a liar and political fraud, that there is no record of an income that is a memorandum measure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u64	Mr. Stephen from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u65	Madam President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, with the 2018 budget, the end titles fall on the destructive account adopted by the Qualified Opposition on the state of the country. The end titles are dropping in your account, ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition, because the budget we are discussing is the last Memorandum, as since August 2018, the country is coming out of the memoranda, the memoranda that you, New Democracy and PASOK, have put in the country after you went bankrupt. The years when the present government is in power you adopted and invested in the account of the disaster. You described that we are driving the country on the rocks, based on make news, unexistent scandals and conscious lies. You based your opposition tactic on lies. The amoralism and panic of your removal from your authority led you to a complete lack of measure and openness. You have tried and tried to build scandals where there is nothing but fair political management of things in the interests of the citizens. You dispersed a lot of lies and virtual news that only existed in the minds of the aliens who visited us in the Hypothet. You have used and used paradoxical tactics along with a large portion of the media in order to hide your own scandals, to convince the citizens that we are all the same. Unfortunately, however, for you, ladies and gentlemen, we are not all the same. The country did not appear suddenly in 2015. There was before. And the before of the country was yours before, "NOVARTIS", "SIEMENS", NOCR1, CCTPOL, Papastavroi, Christopheres, Mandelis, Koskotades, Tsohatzopoulos, Papagoropoulos, armaments and lately Paradise Papers and some residences in Paris. If there was a national corruption museum, they wouldn't fit your scandals. This past is what haunts you and you're trying with rabies to cover it up. Finally, titles for your account, but also end titles and for your hypothetical alternative economic proposal. The Chief of Officership with a narrow voice says he will become Prime Minister. Of course he does not think that it would be better to use a hypothetical link if he became a prime minister. He'll reduce taxes and negotiate with the lenders to change line. This is where we laugh! Two things may happen: Whether you have no programme for the memorial era or the plan you have is so anti-grassy that you dare not even develop it. You hide that the gap in revenue from tax reduction will be covered. Hide how you will catch the budget targets, which you have never been able to achieve! You have already given some examples of writing in the debates in Parliament whenever the government passed a bill providing social benefits. Let me remind you of the bill for the free medical treatment of all uninsured citizens, free school meals, the free movement of the unemployed in public transport, the Ministry of Education bill that increased resources to research and help young scientists, the social income of solidarity, the strengthening of health structures and interventions in education. Fortunately, at least for the social dividend this year, you brained, because all the rest, you told us that you would abolish it when you became government. Therefore, if you govern, the objectives will be achieved through dramatic cuts in public spending, with massive redundancies - you have done this before - and huge cuts in social benefits and the public nature of education and health. This is the latent meaning of your words. They exist in your ideology and are inextricably linked to the excellence of family rule, interactivity and off-shore. So let's see how and why the country didn't fall on the rocks. This has been because so far we have achieved all the economic objectives that have been set, which you have failed to do in the previous years of the crisis. All your old friends abroad admit it. And you didn't make it for the simple reason that you didn't care for the country to come out of the crisis. Your aim was to reproduce the same system: to complicate and ensure the interests of your people at the expense of many. All of this, ladies and gentlemen, has been achieved because of good management, monomony and our idealism, as you are accusing us of, because above all we are putting the good of the country and the citizen, because we have not spread, nor will we, for the very simple reason that we are not the same. The Greek people also know that. It's time for you to look for another account. And it would not be wrong to find a story that serves the country and political controversy rather than your obsession with your power and political amoracism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr Colleague, for the accuracy of time. Mr Yoyakas, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u67	Ladies and gentlemen, I have heard from a majority colleague that anyone who is in a hurry is stumbling. But there is also the other saying: 'The mermaid and the favors he has.' So, the sooner you rid our society of today's governance, the more useful you will be. I have heard from another fellow Member that we now have end-of-mortem titles. So, dear colleague, we'll eat gold spoons.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u68	No, but we weren't eating before with gold spoons. We didn't have spoons before.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u69	So don't rush, because we all live in this society, we live in the suffering society, we live in the society of poverty and poverty. We therefore come to discuss a budget which does not hide surprises. It is an authentic budget for the SYRIZA - ANEL period, a budget that affects everyone, but above all it hits our weakest fellow citizens, a budget that takes from themselves and even more than it needs. The basic element from which the budget seems to have a deficit of social justice is one: the proportion of indirect taxes to direct taxes. Direct taxes are proportional to income, which is why they are considered fairer than indirect taxes. Indirect taxes, on the other hand, such as VAT and excise duties, because they relate to almost every good and every service, are burdened by their own having and not having, by harming those who have little more money to spend on their daily needs and obligations. Therefore, the less the proportion of indirect taxes, the more socially fair taxation is. In the 2018 budget, indirect taxes are 33% higher than direct taxes. This gives us one reason at about 1: 32 significantly increased since 1: 14 that was formed in 2014. And it is important, ladies and gentlemen, for citizens to know who pays what from the 2018 account. Some forty thousand low pensioners will take from the new year the CSR that is significantly reduced. The EUR 320 million allocated for this 2017 will be about 80 million in 2018. Young pensioners, those who applied for retirement under the Katrugalou Act, will receive pensions reduced by 12% to 16%, while in some of these reductions they will also reach 30%. Free professionals, farmers and self-employed will give even more of their incomes than 60% and on taxes and social security contributions. From Genoa their contributions will increase from 8% to 38%, when the 15% discount has been abolished, because they will be calculated on the basis of gross revenue, i.e. without deducting the insurance contributions paid. In other words, they will also pay insurance contributions for the insurance contributions they have already paid. If this isn't another international co-government patent after the famous "ass" then what is it? Millions of wage earners and retired people with more than EUR 9 000 per year will see their wages or pensions reduced from January to January, after a 1.5% reduction in the monthly withholding tax has been abolished. Third-party and multi-text families will be invited to pay the account of the reduced multi-text allowance. The inhabitants of the north and mountainous regions of our country will receive half the heating allowance. Our inhabitants of thirty-two islands will see to their accuracy all products and services after the abolition of the reduced 30% VAT rates. A budget that takes it indiscriminately from everyone, and from the non-existent, loses the argument of social justice. This was also noted by the head of the Parliament's Budget Office, whose term of office was not renewed, just extended until the replacement was found, apparently because it was spoiling the soup of government arguments for the economy. But, ladies and gentlemen, there is another element that disputes the so-called social profile of the budget. And this is called the 'primary surplus'. In 2018, the government intends to get from citizens and businesses EUR 587 million more than is foreseen by the Memorandum. Even the representatives of the lenders have disagreed with this choice, because they know that behind the surpluses there is no solid economic logic, just micro-policy. They know that greater surpluses, even if the target is already too high, means more taxes, less public investment, more austerity. It means that it is removed from the real liquidity economy for consumption, expansion, maintenance and job creation. One thing is certain and it has also been proved this year, where we have been far beyond the objective of the surplus and, at the same time, anaemic growth of the economy: Overcrowding is seriously damaging growth. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, there is something even more serious: the surplus is the nipple that co-government has worn in the country's neck. What is needed is smaller primary surpluses to create the necessary financial breath. When the government is devoting itself to overcoming objectives which are already unthinkable, it is in fact undermining the effort to demand the necessary financial space that the economy will be able to regain with a reduction in taxation for citizens and businesses and an increase in investment. This is the trap in which the government, ladies and gentlemen, has captured the country. We in the New Democracy believe in a different, more developmental and socially fair budgetary mix, with fewer taxes and targeted cuts in government expenditure, as part of a policy that marries fiscal stability by returning to growth and increasing employment, what you are undermining next year's budget. We can therefore only vote against it. And I conclude by saying that we are voting against him for another reason: why he brings with him the additional cost with which the government loaded Greek society with failed negotiations and delayed evaluations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, too. Mr Lambroulis, Member of the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Madam President. The 2018 budget is an anti-grassroots and anti-corruption tool that bears the stamp of government policy, its strategic choices, cut to the service of capitalist growth, the uninterrupted reinforcement of business groups and capital, while at the same time signalling the further tax burden on the people, the smashing of the insurance rights of workers and poor people, the increase in cuts in social benefits, the increase in insurance contributions etc. And this aggressive policy of the government and capital against the rights and conquests of workers is not only reflected in the state budget but also in the government's agreement with the institutions in the context of the third assessment. Thus, the exit into the market and the end of the memorial tombs being propelled by the government in no way concerns the lifting of the anti-grassroots measures, despite their preservation, the application of what has been legislated and will be implemented in the years to come. Thus, and for 2018, as illustrated in the budget, savage cuts in health and welfare continue, increasing the payments of workers and poor people's populations, continuing the anti-grassroots structural measures in these areas, further strengthening the trade in health and welfare, strengthening the reciprocity of the benefits and individual responsibility of patients, the functioning of public health units on private economic criteria, i.e. as enterprises, by exacerbating the conditions of employment and pay for the workers of health. And the implementation of this policy on the basis of the European Union's strategy, as also mentioned in the rapporteur's report, is modernisation in the government in health and welfare, through the drastic reduction of State and insurance costs, the reduction of State responsibility in a minimum package of health benefits, by increasing the payments of workers, self-employed people, farmers. Is this really a modernization or anachronism, given that the distance between the current potential of science, technology and productivity is widening and that the popular strata can make use of them? This means, for example, that people should stay without drugs, because they do not have to pay or meet other basic needs, in order to ensure them, as well as the fact that the large number of health workers in all sectors, doctors, nurses and others cannot be exploited for the benefit of people's needs. And that is because the modern and growing needs of the people in health, welfare, medicine, as they are currently forming, are in contrast to the nature of the capitalist economy and development. It is unlike the maximisation of the profitability of the monopolistic groups. That is why our people are bleeding with the measures that are being promoted either by the current government or by the previous ones, with the backing, of course, of other urban parties, which also support the European Union's strategy and health, medicine, etc. So the rationalisation of expenditure, the housekeeping, the fight against waste and corruption, the benefits based on the real needs that all of you are getting at all falls, are nothing but a hint tool in order to interfere with the people's consciousness, presenting what? Presenting as normal the additional state and insurance cuts, the extra payments to medicines, tests, treatments, health material, etc. Your aim is to encapsulate popular discontent in the context of a better and more effective management of anti-grass policy, with the greatest possible reduction in people's demands. So, at the same time that the new reductions in budget appropriations are going to be added to the savage cuts that have been made to date, all worsening health services, is the government affected by surpluses in health budgets, surpluses resulting from the increase in the payments of insured and uninsured persons, by reducing the benefits covered by insurance funds and by the State, such as the reduction in the state funding of public units by EUR 362 million, which is due to be covered by where? Since the increase in contributions to EEAS through the bleeding of pensioners, which for 2017 is estimated at EUR 717 million. That is how the 'blooded' surpluses in this area are expressed by the EEA. In fact, state funding is being abolished and limited to EUR 100 million for uninsured people. Thus, the EUR 67 for each uninsured person is covered by the cost of two vaccines, influenza and pneumococcal pneumococcals. In order to prevent, cure, rehabilitation, medication, vaccines, the government is doing what will be covered. The cut and plaques of public pharmacy expenditure have led to the evacuation of patients' payments, since in mid-2009, between 9% in 2009 it has now reached about 30%, calculated only the positive list medicines, that is, those compensated by the insurance funds, by the EEAY. If we calculate the difference between insurance and retail prices, the euro 1 per prescription, the negative list medicines, the non-prescribed medicines, which have recently been released, the 10 euros that have been granted by patients for prescription, with all of them and insurance funds paying 57.7% less while the insured pay 43.1% more than in 2009. [[This is where the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Madam President, and thank you for your tolerance. The staffing of public health services to a large extent is a virtual reality that the government is practicing, as recruitments with a permanent employment relationship are minimal, while most of them are temporary workers, subsidiary employees, a service report, individual contracts, which are not added to existing staff, but replace those who end their contract. This kind of recruitment, along with the recent abolition of a fixed daily working week, is, on the one hand, even cheaper health for the State, on the other hand, with the same or less number of sanitary workers coming out of work, that is, what suits the business character of public health units. Furthermore, the third assessment provides for the assessment of the possibility for public health establishments to provide services, not on the basis of the measures needed to meet the needs, where they are insufficient, but, as mentioned, to be entrusted to the private health business sector. In policy, at the same time, further reductions in state and insurance costs are also part of the ongoing reform of primary health care, for which what is actually changing? It changes the way in which health services are purchased through the family doctor, in order to reduce the costs caused by the insured person. Thus, the family doctor will act as a guardian responsible for referrals to experts, as is provided for in the third assessment agreement. Faced with this policy and health and welfare policy, the JRC's pro-collegiate, social and economic proposal is the position that, in order to satisfy modern popular changes in health and medicine, fundamentally different relationships between ownership and production are needed, i.e. social property relationships, scientific centralized planning. That is why the organisation of the struggle, the struggle for the labour movement, with the contribution of health, must be part of the perspective of the popular development path, the only one that can universally guarantee a modern, free, state-of-the-art health system, a state body of research, production and free supply of medicines, vaccines and others, a system that people's health does not constitute costs, but a right and a social asset. Our current proposals for immediate relief, decongestion of hospitals, health centres, recruitment of medical and nursing staff, and the provision of medical equipment and medicines, with a generous increase in government funding and so on, are also included here. In this struggle we call on all workers and scientific bodies, especially doctors and nurses in a common struggle, an alliance with the working class and other popular strata, to deposit every sacrifice and everyday effort with a day's strike station on 14 December and with an escalation of the struggle in the next period. Because this struggle concerns all workers and their families, regardless of their work, the level of wages, unemployment and their origin. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, forty students and students and three teachers attending the 2nd Patras High School (first Chamber). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Saridis has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u73	Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the 2018 budget and we continue to believe, this year, that by using examples and parallels, we will be better understood by our fellow citizens every day when we go up to this Step and try to explain to them where the taxes end up, which end up in all kinds of contributions we make to them by law. In trying to explain to them why exactly what's happening to them, we're talking about the neighborhood's pussy bag, we're talking about the wallet and the housekeeper's basket, we're talking about the pocket money grandpa and grandma give their grandchildren and sometimes we're remembering Psocostanna's vulture. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the third state budget in whose debate I have a responsibility to participate. Unfortunately, only this responsibility has changed somehow, it has become bigger. Nothing has changed since the first debate on the 2016 budget, but also from the impression that I already had as a citizen, long before I was on behalf of the people of Thessaloniki as a representative of this Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, our examples are inappropriate. The housekeeper's wallet isn't hers anymore. They've taken it out of her hands. Her basket no longer needs it when she goes to shop mainly two, three or four things. What does that say about our budget? What should we understand here through that given? What householder's wallet and what kind of household basket are we talking about? Everything has been looted, ladies and gentlemen. One cannot today be consistent, no matter how much one wants, no matter how much he tries. The numbers just don't come out! Greeks continue to cut money from the food budget today. For seven years we have been cutting off the family table. This year we exceed during the seven years of the junta. The economic crisis and the memoranda wrote and passed more budgets than the junta. In these seven years we have not stopped cutting off our food at first in quantity and later in quality. What does that mean for the health of the Greek people? We have a lot of fellow doctors in this Chamber. Let us and the citizens know what they think about the effects of the continuous and conscious deterioration of the quality of our food. But if we are to be told by the lawyers - which we also have many in this Chamber - where will those who have been right for seven years be deprived of their tables every day basic things, human things and simple things? The fact is that the budget to be voted on is not a matter for them. The figures we are discussing today mean nothing at all about the reality that Greek society experiences, and that is the most tragic of all the conclusions that anyone who sits down to read carefully the figures and forecasts, figures and percentages. It is the most tragic one, precisely because the budget is the law that affects more than anything else. The budget is considered the top of the laws, because it is the occasion of the government to describe and explain what kind of government it is, what its policy is, what its vision is. Greeks, in the year 2017, waiting for good in 2018, have now linked the budget to their consciousness in the sense of loss. They no longer hope in him, but on the contrary, they fear him. They know that every time something changes - and this is a very bad lesson that budgets gave them - it always changes towards the worst. Once, the word "change" was a motto. Now, after so many reforms that have taken place, the word "change" means a threat. This proves the failure of the domestic political system. When we are able to bring a budget into this Chamber, which will have hope rather than fear, then we will all have the right to talk about the household basket. Until we get her back the wallet she's been grabbed, we have nothing to tell her. In order to achieve this, we must start writing the budgets in Greece, and indeed all those with responsibility. The government speaks of a clear exit from the memorials, when it cannot surely answer how it estimates to present us with a budget for which it is proud, not because it best packed the crumbs from the floor, but because it gave hope and vision to the Greeks. Ladies and gentlemen, for a long time the citizens have asked some specific questions and they have not received any convincing answers. Are the budgets written by Greeks in Greece? Have we, in fact, recognised the paternity of the memorials as ours? I ask questions myself, and I do not get answers in this Chamber. Mr. Finance Minister, Mr. Chakaloto, where's the horse? Where does the budget write it for the most famous rider? Show me. Where's the $1 billion we're holding aside? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, I would like your tolerance for a minute. Mr. Social Security Minister, Mr. Petersburg, what about the money we owe our long-term volunteers? Will you tell us why we constantly exclude them? And you, Mr. Minister of Justice, Mr. Kontonis, will you at last answer what prevents you from legislating to protect the people's home or is that the responsibility of Mr. Papadimitriou? In this case, Minister, you should tell us who is responsible for answering what is ultimately what prevents you from legislating the priority of borrowers against foreign funds. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and ANEL, with the vote on this budget, you maintain fear and you do not offer hope. By voting on this budget, you are losing your two convenient excuses once and for all. Your first excuse is that "the previous ones have done worse". Yes, clearly, the previous ones did worse. But that doesn't save you anymore. That's not the point of your argument. And your second argument, 'we didn't have time', is also unstable. You've been at the wheel of this country for three years. Whether you like it or you don't like it, you're the only ones responsible for what's coming. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u74	I will give the floor to the Independent Member, Mr Catherine Papacosta. She's the last speaker in the second circle, and we're coming in right after the third circle. In other words, we are very backward and I would ask that we show respect for time. Mrs Papakostas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u75	Thank you very much, Madam President. Greece, ladies and gentlemen, it is the country of parallel monologues, said Seferis. Each individual speaks alone and the country is afflicted by these parallel monologues. At the same time, Solomon notes that national is what is true. I would like here on the occasion - because there was a debate earlier - of the Turkish President's recent visit to our country, to say that the national is true and should be the first in the crisis of political leaders, political parties, MPs and not all of us to create impressions. I would like to raise a point and a question, Madam President and ladies, to Mrs Gennimata, the President of the Change Movement, because as a Greek Member I understood that she supports the positions and agreements - which were signed by Mr Simitis, then Prime Minister of the country - disgusting in me - Madrid and Helsinki, where, in fact, there were issues where they were not there. Whilst the only issue - in Madrid this has emerged - was the holocaust issue, there the then Prime Minister, Mr Simitis, raised - please, by accepting this agreement, namely by accepting that there are legitimate and vital interests of Turkey in the Aegean Sea. With this agreement, it actually gave Turkey until yesterday the right to claim half the Aegean. In Helsinki, I have to tell you that there has been a strange, paradoxical and disgraceful wording, such as the one which said that it essentially recognises border disputes with the neighbouring country, Turkey. There were two agreements, which deeply hit the country until the day before yesterday. I ask the President of the Change Movement - or whatever the name appears - that will be seen in their own internal issues, if he adopts the political symposium, the PASOK governments, Madrid and Helsinki, and if that is why he claims that it was not right to place the President of the Republic, Mr Pavlopoulou, who de facto the day before yesterday, publicly and professedly annulled the contents of these two agreements, turning it back to the previous state, in the pretext. He must answer the Change Movement. It should be his President, Mrs Gennimata, because the Greek people, in addition to the economic crisis and how each will manage the model of economic development, his political and economic programmes, should know who is really with the nation, with the country and who he is, with disgraceful wordings in agreements, in secret and without prejudice to Madrid and Helsinki, adopted another policy on matters as not to be due, which the President of the Republic canceled yesterday. So she owes an answer to Mrs Gennamata as a Greek congressman. I am entitled to put it and put it, Madam President, and I expect the President to answer it, which I do not think is naive, because I could justify her earlier statement. But I do not think it is naive. So I expect her answer with great interest and national interest. Now listen, gentlemen of the government, this. It is customary for governments whenever they bring budgets to say that they are the best, most developmental one, the one having social status, etc. Yes, but there are standards, there is also a framework, which says who is considered to be the good budget. And there are three conditions here for a budget to be considered good regardless of governments. The first element, the first feature - if you like - of a good budget is that it must be developmental. The second feature is whether it can achieve budgetary equilibrium and the third feature is whether it can serve social justice at the same time. Do you, the government, think that you have brought a good budget to the Greek Parliament to vote for, which has these three features? I, for example, see the budgetary figures here, see some things. Ladies and gentlemen, one budget always sets targets, but we must also see the tools to achieve implementation, the implementation of a good budget with the three features that I have mentioned. So let me see if the tools used in this budget meet the conditions to which I referred earlier and, in particular, third, social justice. Members of the Economic Staff, the additional burdens - codified, Mr President - are EUR 951 million for 2018. Of these 478 million are direct taxes and 473 million are indirect taxes. We all know that indirect taxes are inversely progressive in terms of income. What does that mean, so that everyone watching us will understand, why do you, as colleagues, know that? It means that the poor with indirect taxation become even poorer, because their income is reduced much more than the medium and large urban economic strata, when everyone is charged with the same tax rate by indirect taxation. Therefore, when you are poor with indirect taxation, using a specific tool to collect, which is a tool that is poorer than the poor and is illuminated by this tax rate, then I do not think that this tool used is the right one. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Also, the recipe is wrong and I have two things to suggest. Madam President, may I speak one more minute. It is wrong, as there is no need to achieve development goals. So you should see how you can achieve development goals. I'm making you a suggestion. For example, to curb unaltered state interventionism, as we must prevent unaltered neoliberalism. We must serve social liberalism, because it is the balanced mix of fiscal policy, which is at the heart of human policy. In addition, you must create a stable tax environment. I would also like to make one final suggestion, to reduce the taxation of labour. Ladies and gentlemen, if we do not go to lower labour taxation, because, basically, workers create demand and demand creates supply, when 60% -70% of workers' wages are created, it depends on Brain Drain, that is, that people go outside because they are not paid in the way they have to be paid, then you realize that we are doing absolutely nothing. There must therefore be a reduction in the tax on labour. Of course, the social dividend was a policy that we implemented as a government and I support it. Of course, where you can spend more money, where social needs exist, to balance the wrong mix of your policy, to do so, but your budget as a whole does not fulfil these conditions. Finally - and I close with this, Madam President, and thank you very much - I want to mention an issue in the area of national defence, which has been discussed and committed to your government. The commitment was that, by the end of the year, the remaining 50% of the salaries and pensions of the military staff will be paid. This remains as a promise. In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, we should at some point see in this Chamber how we need to revise our issues, how we need to stop the malaise and how we need to make budgets, which are primarily serving social justice, which I do not think your budget meets this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u76	We're entering the third cycle. The first speaker is Mrs Eleni Alonitou from SYRIZA. By the way, I'll tell you I won't be able to have the same tolerance of the time I had in the second circle. [[Protests in the Chamber]] Be careful, because the time will be five minutes slowly! In all the parties I had tolerance. Make a condensation of your thoughts, finally! Mrs Aylonite, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u77	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, this time of year has come again, which we are gathering here to exchange gratitude, on the occasion of and on the pretext of next year's budget. The revenue in the budget is derived from existing tax legislation. Their calculations are made by the General Accounting Office of the State. The costs are largely inflexible, that is, wages and pensions which only Mr Mitsotakis would like to cut. Then there are always two questions left: first, to give development prospects to the country, or not to give? Second, what do you have to do with giving it to the richest or the poorest? Now, of course, in these two questions, the average person would find it difficult not to give development prospects in the country and give them to the rich, but the average man does not follow with due attention what the Chief of Official Representation has said. I will not go back into the history of the Greek crisis and the memorials. I would point out, however, that the memoranda divided the Greek political world in two. I don't mean, of course, to right-wing and left-wing people, but to those who said "oh, what happened to us, what found us!" And to those who said 'if we didn't have the memorials, we should invent them'. The last, ladies and gentlemen, today has become the official position of the New Democracy! In this context we are today discussing the 2018 budget. We, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, have the following problem. How are we going to bring down unemployment, which we received at 27%, and took it to 20%, even further down? The Civic Opposition has another problem, how to take down the basic salary, which was found at 700 euros and took him to 500 euros, even lower. So we have the oxymobile, half of the House talking about one issue, and the other half talking about another matter. We definitely disagree. However, we do not disagree as much about what to do as we disagree on what the problem we have to solve is. We, ladies and gentlemen, have decided that we want to take the country out of the memoranda and lead it to economic development, in a way that will benefit all Greeks. The Civic Opposition again has decided, and she wants the recovery for those who can, for those who stand and the rest go drown. This dissatisfaction, ladies and gentlemen, is unprecedented. In vain some central left-wings are trying to lure a skating staircase and stand on it, holding equal distances. What do they say to the world? ‘Go and drown in part?’. But whoever's got a lot of pepper puts on the cabbage. Because the pepper of psalmology and slander is the only political weapon left in New Democracy, we are in this ridiculous situation: we are accused of being destroyed by the middle class. We are accused of overtaxing the maximum income of 1% of Greeks who have taxed and chickens as villas. We are being accused of increasing part-time employment by those who first adopted it. We have reached the point where the only contribution of the New Democracy to leaving the country from the memoranda is the theoretical justification for tax evasion through offshore by the Vice-President of the New Democracy. However, the New Democracy guardians are asking for responsibility and we are being squeezed at by the barbas - Giorgos - I would say - so I have to answer them. If you wish, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, to preach to us, first spend the money that your Party owes to the banks, because you are the first batterers in the country and then we talk about it. Once you have spent your time and before you start preaching, learn to declare in the “subjects” all your incomes, even those of your spouses offshore. Once you're able to do this, if you're still in the mood, come and tell us and kiss you days that are! Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting in favour of the budget, not because it is perfect, but because it is the best in the circumstances, especially because it takes us somewhere and gives us perspective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u78	Mr Vlasis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u79	Ladies and gentlemen, as soon as the 2018 budget was submitted to the House, the government has rushed to advertise it as the last Memorandum of Understanding, as the budget for overrun. I will agree with you on the second part. This is indeed the budget for overcoming the budget, because this text exceeds the logic, tolerance and patience of the Greeks. You are going beyond our logic when you want to convince us that everything is going well, since the primary surpluses are higher than expected. But you forget to mention exactly how these high surpluses arise. Does it make you any impression that the primary surplus is growing when the rated growth rate for this year is scissorsed at 1.6% from an initial forecast of 2.7%? So where do the extra money come from? The answer is simple: From the pockets of Greek taxpayers, who will once again be subject to the policy of so-called left-wing social sensitivity, with additional taxes of EUR 1,1 billion for 2018 and a total of EUR 1,9 billion in additional measures. Obviously, your social sensitivity works inversely depending on your addiction to power. The longer he grows, the less she gets. How else can one explain that you are moving on to new payroll cuts, especially for some 150 000 uniforms, to new cuts in the EAEC of EUR 234 million - I imagine you are once again hitting the rich ones with the cut in the EAEC! -, a further decrease in health expenditure of EUR 364 million - Mr Paulakis says that everything is going well to health - a reduction in expenditure of 0.5% of GDP on social benefits - again, I imagine, you are hitting the rich in this way! -, a 50% reduction in the budget allocated each year as heating allowance - mercy, these rich ones beat them unrelentingly! Why don't you explain to the citizens where your high-advertised social dividend came from? Why don't you admit that the money came out because you didn't give within 2017 to the financially weak what the budget and the Memorandum predicted as funds for social expenditure? I'm not saying it. That's what your revised memorandum says. Behind the ordinary citizen what they think of him, to do party communication tricks. Of course, at the same time, we have a record of part-time work - the figures are now in - close to 60%. You are talking about social justice and support for the sick. Truly, how do you feel today that you once came to power under the motto 'no house in the hands of a banker' and now you are auctioning not the villas of the rich, as you want to be forged in the world, but even the first residence of the poor families for just a few thousand euros? Already over a million have been seized, twenty - three thousand in October alone and another seven hundred thousand are at risk. Let's not hide behind our finger. Your policy is a constant patch of your own mistakes and omissions. Three years you have ruled on paper, but on the substance of the matter you have left out all the important affairs of the country, which, when our partners leave you no more room to configure on the worst terms. This is how we led to the sale of PPC without any substantial consideration. With your policy, you led the company to a huge downgrading of its stock exchange value and to the launching of its dues. You, who once protested about the public nature and the protection of their property, now sell the two units of Megalopolis and those of Meliti to balance your failure. All of this, when the plan of the Antonis Samaras government with a sale of 30% would ensure PPC's viability, with an influx of 2 billion euros. That's why you blamed us as traitors. How do you feel today? Because I didn't see any of SYRIZA at the rally down in Megalopoli a few days ago, and four years ago you were in front of your friends from the other left parties. The New Democracy, as a responsible political force, may have made mistakes in the past, but we never made a alleged negotiation at a cost of EUR 100 billion on the backs of Greek citizens. No New Democracy government would agree with excessive surpluses of 3.5% over five years and over 2% by 2060. So you are overcoming our tolerance when you declare with an uncomplicated cynicism that the country is returning to normality. If you think that over-taxation, auctions, wage cuts and pensions, the sale of national property, capital controls and non-existent investments promote the return to normality, then I really am shaking in front of the future that you have envisioned for our country. Understand it at last. The way to return to normality is one: growth, which you cannot succeed, because it is not as easy as putting your hand in the pockets of the Greek taxpayers and, indeed, those who are consistent. Because, as you know, in dealing with tax evasion your results are low.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u80	Finish, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u81	In conclusion, I would like to ask you directly: in the 2018 budget have you budgeted the pain, injustice and burdens that you will charge to the ordinary Greek citizen, or all you care about is how you get two - three numbers and rebuild a false account that will give you some more time to the chairs you so much love? Unfortunately, I do not expect any convincing answer. Fortunately, however, your days in power end. Be sure that the next budget with a government of New Democracy, Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, and a realistic programme of power will have a real social mark, not the party sign of a government that deceives and underestimates the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u82	You meant the People's Republic, I guess. Before I summon Mrs Gennaia to the Step, I have a statement to make to this House. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-three students and schoolchildren and two educational attendants from the 2nd Patras High School (Second Chamber). We welcome you to the House. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs. Genergy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u83	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam and Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, with the tabling and voting of the 2018 budget ends for our country the circle of memoranda that we inherited from New Democracy and the PASOK. For the third consecutive year we have managed to catch the budget targets. And this year, like last year, we gave the social dividend to our citizens who need it most, disgusting the "Cassandras" of counterpopulation. In the past two years, the objectives have been significantly exceeded. And for the current year, it is expected to be overrun. All this has helped restore international credibility to Greek public finances. They have created the conditions for returning the country to international capital markets in a sustainable way. The New Democracy and the PASOK, ladies and gentlemen, have been mismanaged for decades and when their deadlocked policies have caused the 2009 crisis, they have treated the citizens of this country in an even worse way. First they collectively framed them with the notorious slogan "we ate them together". Then they tried to rescue the country's elites at the expense of the workers and the middle class, for which they are now supposedly cut. These two parties imposed austerity on the people's strata and workers. They had to pay those who had suffered and during the well-being period, those who then saw their incomes stagnant, the prices in everything rising, the fatality being provoked, those who listened to growth and saw unemployment and savageness in labour relations even before the crisis. With the one-sided austerity they imposed when they arrived at a dead end, millions of Greeks were poor. They caused a recession that reached 30% in total and brought unemployment more than 25%. 30% of the country's GDP was lost from 2009 to 2014. The management of their crisis was disastrous, because they beat the workers while the elites transferred their capital to offshore and hidden lists, because at the time the capital and elite gains were kept in the tax havens, they created a hell for many. On the contrary, our current government, which has gone so far behind in opposition, has achieved targets for lower primary surpluses. In a context of the catastrophe of the New Democracy, all the economic indicators record the constant growth potential of the Greek economy. For example, 2017 is the first year of growth after years. In the first seven months of 2017, exports increase 18% on an annual basis. They reach the highest level of the last decade. Industrial activity increased by 5.3%. Foreign direct investment exceeded 2.1 billion - the first seven months of all this 2017 - increasing by 161% compared to the corresponding seven months of 2016. Tourism breaks record this year, with thirty million tourists and significantly increased revenues. The country has made its first successful exit to the markets and at the moment the interest rates of Greek bonds have been at the lowest level since 2009. The main thing is that unemployment is falling to 20% of the 27%, which was three years ago. We know who launched unemployment at these rates. We are therefore closing down in 2017 with all export-positive indicators, industry, consumption, tourism, fixed capital investments and, of course, with a surplus of 2.4 %, far more than the target of 1.75%. The important thing is that, in addition to the two higher objectives, the third objective is achieved, which is very important: to be that of a redistributive budget. This is crucial for the left-wing policy, in contrast to the right-wing pursuits. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In these specific political conditions, it is a budget that tries to increase social justice as much as it can, which is trying to overthrow other policies that would have much worse redistribution for workers and the middle class. It is a budget which opens the way to getting out of the memoranda, which further strengthens social protection programmes, with an additional 25 to 30 million to be allocated to higher education, with the aim of combating undeclared and 'black' labour, increasing employment, strengthening insurance and a fairer distribution of insurance burdens. Despite the fake news, therefore, and the incredible propaganda conducted daily by the well-known centres, the financial result of the insurance funds for 2018 is expected to be shaped into a surplus of 859 million, improved compared to 2017 by about 1 million. And that's a recovery sample. I would remind you that the 2016 budget has stopped the continuous reduction in educational expenditure that started in 2011. With the 2017 budget for the first time after many years public spending on education increased by 257 million or 5.4 % compared to the 2016 budget. I am therefore pleased to vote in favour today of a budget which has no further unfavourable budgetary measure, which forms a development plan in which all three sectors of the economy are in place: public, private and social, which is more socially just, which gives particular importance to health, education, work and socially vulnerable groups, which ultimately will lead the country to an exit from the crisis, with society and citizens standing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u84	Mr Theocharopoulos, Member of the Democratic Alliance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u85	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, in conditions of economic suffocation, the debate on the State Budget of 2018 comes. A budget that once again highlights dogmatic austerity policy. And you are essentially counting on the successful implementation of the budget in a number of assumptions that will certainly not be successful. Just as it happened in 2016 and 2017. It is truly revealing, when one year after last year's debate in the House, the actual sizes of the past year are made public and the accounting tricks are extinguished, confirming the huge credibility deficit of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. You have tabled a budget which is not based on a development plan this year, only on individual actions which aim to 'get out the numbers', first of all the excessive target for the primary surplus. It is as if you have a unique objective now, overcoming the objective, already excessive, for the primary surplus. So you continue this little kitten in which you have committed the country to 2022 with 3.5% primary surplus and up to 2060 to 2%. A commitment that means extending the tax raid and combining it with tough measures by 2022. Of course you are deaf or - the worst - attack independent authorities, such as the Budget Office of the House. It is not recommended, for example, that the objective of overcoming the anticipated primary surpluses, as they choke growth and are mainly based on taxes, that 'the continuation of tax policy increases the state of suffocation of the economy' - that is what the independent budgetary authority tells you. Now, however, you continue to have as the main political aim of highlighting the overcrowd. In addition, Mr Tsipras suddenly found that it is not so important to include the country in the quantitative relaxation. When was he right when he said it was important a while ago or now? At the same time, there is no substantial commitment to restructuring, to a substantial reduction in public debt. You've essentially sold growth in the name of over-performance. Where will the strong growth of 2.5% emerge from after years of recession and low growth? From the privatisation programme revenues you're budgeting at 2.7 billion? And that your own party is questioning many of these privatizations and fighting them. Moreover, who will put his money in a country with dazzling bureaucracy, extermination of taxation and tax instability? This is what is called an uninvesting climate, and that maintains, and is unfortunately widening, your Government. Because for almost three years you have just been expanding and creating new pathogens. You do not have an integrated programme to combat unemployment and create new jobs, and without this it is not possible to get the country out of the crisis. And because we hear things about work and unemployment. You have raised flexible forms of employment and part-time work as your maximum goal. If that can be left-wing and progressive policy! I reread this from the Bureau of the Parliamentary Budget: 'There is a significant spread of flexible forms of work. The percentage of self-employed part-time and their gross earnings shall be EUR 394,13.’ At the same time, one out of three unemployed are out of work for more than twelve months, the long-term removal from the labour market leads people to a refreshed poverty spiral." Mr Tsakalotos said, in all this context, that "this budget is as fair as we believe that the objective conditions allow us in which we live and which we want to change". Other words to be loved! How fair is he? Three points are sufficient on this issue. First. Direct taxes amount to EUR 20.8 billion. The indirect at 27.4 bn The indirect 473 million euros are also increased. Percentage of indirect direct: 1.33. All previous years were lower, 1.15 and 1.18. As far as the indirect and direct taxes in our country are concerned, they are essentially 44% indirect and 26% direct. The euro area is 33% and 32%. Congratulations! Is that left policy? And do you continue to talk about a fair distribution of tax burdens when you are actually investing in indirect taxes? Second. There is an increase in revenue, including increases in professional contributions, subsidies interventions, abolition of the reduction in income tax for medical expenses, reduction of the expenditure available for the heating oil allowance by 50%. Who's going to affect all this? The rich? They'll affect the weakest. Tuesday. The planned savings will result in the most antisocial way, from cuts in social costs and EUR 1.6 billion from pensions. That is from new cuts in pensions and until the definitive abolition of the ESS. At the same time, you are blocking the Public Investment Programme. So what are you doing? You are taxing, overtaxing, to get a primary surplus, to recycle poverty, instead of giving public investment, creating growth in the country and creating stable jobs. You have the exact opposite policy to the one that the country needs at the moment. This is called indifference, indifference, social indifference in particular, which characterise this budget. The country's exit from the crisis you are evangelizing is therefore only a wish, to which you refer many times, and does not respond to the reality. And for the exit from supervision, which you say many times: but the Memorandum itself, to which you have agreed and seen publicity for the coming years, provides for consistent cooperation with the International Monetary Fund and 3.5% of the primary surplus. You who wanted to be disembodied at some point by the International Monetary Fund! Greece is at a dead end, the citizens have exceeded the limits of their strength. With this policy and dogmatic austerity, the deadlocks will actually continue. Without productive reconstruction plan and without national consultation, the same catastrophic process will continue. And a solution, of course, is not the New Democracy policy, which at all levels does not give solutions, simply broadens inequalities. And, of course, this, as we have heard, is an essential part of its policy, that it will not fight to reduce inequalities. So this mixture of economic policy that cuts social costs increases burdens on an already exterminated society and curtails the Public Investment Programme is the inextricably proof of the lack of a left-wing, but of all sensitivity. To overcome the crisis at last, we need a change of policy, an effective negotiation, a progressive policy, with the aim of reducing the waste of resources by structural reforms. A healthy productive model of development with harmonious co-existence between private and public sectors, with the enhancement of healthy entrepreneurship, with social cohesion and quality social policy services, without a policy of recycling poverty. This is the only way our space can guarantee them and they will be pushed forward in the next few years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u86	Now in the series is Mrs Inglesi, but the Deputy Minister for Infrastructure and Transport will first speak for seven minutes. Mr. Mavraani, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, diversity in the way of exercise of power is essentially about an internal philosophical question and a search: if you want to or do not want man to be at the centre, whether you want moral values to come back to the social and economic life of the country, which were the ones who brought the place here. The current crisis, the crisis of recent years, is a crisis of moral values. And this is what governance is responding to from our government. There was a very great warmth and desire for us to drastically limit the country's spending on public debt for just one purpose: to save resources towards the humanisation of the Greek society and the public life of the country. Forgive me, but I haven't seen this in the past few years. I hear a lot about the surpluses. Only those who talk about the surpluses of 3% or 3.5% and in the future 2% forget that by 2030, 4.5% of the surplus had been agreed. It was also agreed that, by 2019, there would be a total of 10 units of GDP in the country. In surpluses means 20 billion. We all agree that if we were to reduce taxation tomorrow morning, we would do so in a fair and smooth manner, indeed, to traders, but also to private or public employees, depending on social priorities. To do so, however, you must first fight, which we have fought honestly, and which has reached the limits, in order to reduce by 20 billion the requirements of the lenders who have led us precisely to implement a budgetary policy and to secure a financial area, to implement a social policy and to cover the wounds that have created a policy in recent years. Floods by our insecure fellow citizens, two and a half million who were outside the hospital insurance system, wounds created by the one and a half million unemployed, who we have reduced by two hundred and seventy thousand and wounds that have created the approximately 50 billion reductions of national wealth, which for the first time since 2008 will increase by about 3 billion. I believe that those who criticise - and because I myself am a good believer, I would like to regard it as a good criticism - should be very careful to see that in the past years, 1 euro has never been added to the country's GDP, and this year, it will be added. They say that you promised and had foretold that you would succeed, for example, to add 3.5 billion and achieve 3 billion. But the economy is a dynamic field, and you don't go along alone with the economic fields, you have opposing powers. You have problems, problems, everyday, social, political, international. And all of this, ladies and gentlemen, that is, the positive turn taken by the country, without extinguishing things, we have actually achieved it by a single means: with the geopolitical upgrading instrument of the country. None of these positive and much more that I am not allowed from the time to include in my thoughts would have succeeded if we had not set the geopolitical upgrading of Greece as a central point of our own policy and the change of the geopolitical dilemma in favour of Greece, between Greece and Turkey. Now that's obvious. We've been telling it since 2015, some people have been flirting with us, but now it's become obvious. It was even more obvious when in 2017, that is, this year, in the summer, May and June, what we wanted and asked for since 2014, both the Independent Greeks and SYRIZA as a means, so that we can change the country's budgetary siphoning and give more resources to the social sector. What do you mean? To substantially adapt the country's payments to the potential for growth, to the performance of the Greek economy, i.e. the growth clause. But the development clause was implemented in 1953 by the Treaty of London for Germany, with the consent of the United States, with the consent of France, with the consent of Greece and many other coalition forces, so that German society can be humanized. And it is time to claim the humanism of the Greek society, and that is what we are doing. Yeah, but that's what we did. We have already achieved a commitment that the country's budgetary objectives with the growth clause should be substantially reviewed. It is what will give us the financial advantage so that we can implement a different social policy, which is already in place today. Let us not forget that in addition to the two and a half million people who have obtained access to social security, hospital care, medical assistance, there are also people, the two hundred and seventy thousand who say that they are paid less wages. Apparently, a lot of them are paid for with reduced wages. We won't close our eyes to the problem, but it's better than not to be paid at all. You have to get back in, get back in society. To raise wages, you have to increase GDP, and that's what we've been doing since this year. We are increasing the country's GDP for the first time. Some will say: But, you do this without having housed the country's budget. I hear voices about statement. How can governmentism, ladies and gentlemen, be aligned on one side with the first post-government budget in the country of 2016 that closed, not with a primary surplus, but with a budgetary surplus of 0.7%? In short, in order for the Greeks and Greeks to understand us, it was the first budget that was balanced. It was balanced, ladies and gentlemen, and it will also be balanced, the 2017 budget. That means we're doing all this by housekeeping. And people say, are you magicians? No, we are not magicians, but I will give you an example and I will close with that, Madam President, and I thank you for your tolerance from the political area I am leading, that is, the area of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. At one time projects were made with 4% discounts and now the same projects are being made with 45%, 50% and 55% discounts. Let's not talk about where the rest of the surpluses were going. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u88	Thank you. The speaker of SYRIZA, Mr Iglezi, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good evening! In my place for the 2018 budget this year, I would not like to focus on the technical part of the text, setting out the figures and figures. The rapporteurs and the Ministers responsible have referred to them exhaustively. But I would like to make a political point about what the budget for next year is expressing and what it is trying to achieve. [[The President-in-Office of the Council, Mr DIMITRIOS KAMMEINOS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] It has, of course, been said and we are all well aware that the budget we are called upon to vote on these days will be the last Memorandum of Understanding. He will be the last to be called upon to plan in cooperation with the institutions and will be the one to allow us to get out of the crisis and comitology. Of course, as a government, we do not bless our beards and recognize the hard sacrifices of our people and that Greek society and the economy still face problems. We cannot, for example, overlook the unemployment rate that is still at high levels. What do we have to do about it? Of course, we should step up our efforts so that indicators like him are improved, which would mean that the conditions faced by households and businesses have improved. But, ladies and gentlemen, I hear you blaming us that we are poorer than the people, that we are cutting pensions, that we are increasing taxation. Gentlemen of counterpopulation, do you think our people have a memory of goldfish? Do you think he forgot the first memorandum, that he forgot in that first quarter of 2012, when thousands of civil servants saw their payroll accounts empty from their retrospective wage cuts, when thousands of families stayed in winter without a wage or a few crumbs to make two and three months? No, gentlemen of counterpopulation, you're being deceived. The people don't forget, they don't forgive you and they don't trust you. What have we achieved to date, however, and what is the new budget? We have managed to lead the Greek economy to stabilisation, which is not even short-term. The return of our country to normality was also the aim at the outset, and that is what we are doing, not only in the coming months but in the long term. With regard to our planning for next year, as it is reflected in the budget, it is clear that fiscal stability is achieved and we are, of course, seeking to be more socially fair. I will mention the fact that, for the first time in drafting a budget, the major public debts are being taken into account, clearly showing the Government's intention to be remedied by recovering debts from major debtors and the equal treatment of taxpayers. Furthermore, the measures we have taken to alleviate inequalities in combination with the adoption of measures and the fight against unpaid, undeclared and undeclared work, the reintroduction of collective negotiations, measures to combat tax evasion and corruption, improve the everyday life of our poor fellow citizens. However, I would also like to refer specifically to the policy of the Government on the environment which is reflected in this budget. It is a clear political choice that the country's productive reconstruction goes through environmental protection. It is a political choice that neoliberal dogma considers incompatible with growth, but our vision of fair and sustainable development is self-evident. Most of the funding is directed towards waste management on the basis of new national planning and the involvement of local government. Furthermore, the project to complete the Land register and forest maps is under way. Regional operational programmes provide for climate change and nature protection projects. The Evros and Samothraki Special Fund provides EUR 26.1 million from the Public Investment Programme. Also, the RIS's decision to meet the real needs for overtime as opposed to the previous years, is presented with an increase of 4.95% in the pay, pensions, additional and ancillary benefits. But to give a real example of environmental protection policies. Since the implementation of the legislation that has recently been passed on to reduce the use of plastic bags, it is estimated that the revenues - which are fully reciprocating - will be of the order of EUR 5 million. This means that the Hellenic Recycling Agency will have this amount available to proceed with further actions to reduce the use of the plastic bag, returning this resource to society. At the same time, for the first time in this budget, the EEW shall be recorded in the general government bodies. It is also very important that the LIFE-IP 4 NATURA project, together with the completion of the country's list of NATURA 2000 regions, has recently been adopted, the preparation of the country's country's special environmental studies and management plans for all these regions with ESDP funding with another EUR 17 million, as well as the new law on management bodies for protected areas that will soon be introduced into Parliament, demonstrate the political will for a new and effective strategic approach for nature and biodiversity management. The natural environment can be an important factor in our country's development with innovative and pilot applications for the whole of Europe. I have heard a colleague from a Vice-President mention the importance of the management bodies of protected areas. He left these management bodies without funding, shrined them and left the workers uncertain. But we will soon see you in the debate of the draft law on management bodies to be voted on in Parliament very soon. Colleagues and colleagues, by voting on the 2018 budget, we are becoming increasingly away from the anti-pollution scenarios. The economic indicators record the constant growth potential of the Greek economy, which is continuously strengthened and thus sealed the gradual restoration of economic stability and the support of the real economy. Our country will come out of comitology with society upright. And that's why we're going to keep working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Iglezi. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the above Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, nine students of the Erasmus programme of the Panteion University. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] To thank Mr Consola for giving Mr Lazaridis his post, who has a personal issue and has asked for a lead.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u91	I would like to thank you, Mr Colleague, for the understanding and concession of the position. Before I enter my comment on the budget, I would like to make a comment, because some comments on the flexible forms of employment have been heard here by the opposition, particularly by the spokesman of PASOK or Democratic Incorporation or now - he says - will call it a Change Movement. Of course, you know who usually has many names. In any case, I would also like to remind the citizens who are listening to us, but also to the party, that these flexible forms of employment have been legitimised in 2010. Of course, they were so incapable of receiving unemployment from 9%, they took it to 28%, despite the fact that they had the opportunity to use what they themselves had legislated, the flexible forms of work. But they shut down one operation after another. In any case, I move on because time is a bit short. Ladies and gentlemen, the environment in which the State budget is to be implemented in 2018 is significantly improved compared to previous years. The overrun of the budgetary targets in 2015, 2016 and 2017 contributes to the instability that Greece is finally leaving behind the long period of irresponsible financial management and entering a new, budgetary balance and social justice. The Greek economy, despite the problems and challenges it faces, continues to recover and present positive growth rates. After years of recession and economic hardship, the country rebounds to growth, which, together with the completion of the third assessment, strengthens the climate of attracting foreign investments, which can contribute effectively to economic recovery. Economics are clear and show that the Greek economy is beginning to recover and return to the path of sustainability and growth. However, it is worth a little review here. Colleagues, in January 2015 after the election of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government lifted the sleeves and took immediate work - the first positive samples - as opposed to previous governments which had only had negative figures to show for five years, already appear in the figures that are created and we are talking about. The current government managed to reduce unemployment in a short time, took it to 20% from 27%, for the first time since the crisis began. Tourism over the three years dropped, respectively, a constant record of arrivals. It seems even from the figures that the growth in the economy and the implementation of the country's budget has contributed. Our aim, of course, is for the benefit of tourist development to be diffuse in all local communities and not just in two tourist islands, which are already known and have always been able to accommodate tourists. In 2017 Greece is the second country worldwide in per capita travel surplus and fifth in per capita international tourist receipts. In agriculture, we see the government paying back the obligations of the previous governments - up to 2008, the current government - has taken care of the current obligations, as well as the current obligations, having closed the state's obligations towards farmers so far. They go through support and support programmes for young farmers in production. This is very important after the decline in agriculture over the last thirty-five years, where from 23% of GDP in 1981 was limited to 3% of GDP in December 2014. Therefore, this government is entitled to say that it began to show light at the end of the tunnel and that things will go better. Ladies and gentlemen, with our return to the capital markets and the exchange of bonds, the smooth progress of the third economic adjustment programme and the focused effort to solve its traditional problems, Greece is beginning to gain benefits from this stability. With the economy on a continuous upward path, with the completion of most of the difficult effort and a good prospects for Europe and the euro area, this may be the moment when long-term foreign investors return to Greece. The 2018 budget provides for the creation of a budgetary surplus, thereby supporting growth, price stability, the reduction of unemployment and the reduction of public debt. For 2018, an economic growth rate of 2.5% and a primary surplus of 3.82% of GDP is projected. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Your tolerance for a minute, Mr President. Some consider this figure utopian, but the budgetary effort that has been made so far, as well as the lifting of economic uncertainty and the significant improvement in the economic climate, are sufficient factors for their safe achievement. Because we see that time is over, I speed up my position. Ladies and gentlemen, by closing my position, the economic figures show that the Greek economy is beginning to recover and return to the path of sustainability and growth. Our main objective in 2018 remains to strengthen the Greek economy's access to international markets from which it has been excluded since April 2010 and to strengthen the recovery of the Greek economy. A prerequisite for the achievement of these objectives is the maintenance of public finances in a resolution trajectory, in order to further strengthen the regained credibility of the country's fiscal policy and to diversify the costs of borrowing the Greek State to sustainable levels. In this context, the state budget was structured. Finally, the programs are over. We have to go through the last steps to get out of this long adventure that the country has gone through and which this government is not responsible for. Others brought the disaster to this country. The two parties, which have ruled this place for decades, have brought him to this situation and the Greeks are now feeling it, the international instruments say so. We are launching the exit from the memoranda and the comitology, and we are moving on to the country's productive reconstruction. Thank you and I invite you all to support the 2018 budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u92	Thank you very much Mr. Lazarides. I would ask Mr Emmanuel Konsola to speak for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, we really do not know many of us Members of the Staff Regulations if what is being tabled by this Step, by many of our colleagues in the government, really believe this rhetoric, namely if the government is led to an exit from the crisis, in a development process, without burdens on Greek citizens. But it is true, ladies and gentlemen, that this government, the Tsipra - Kammenos government, will remain in history as the government of taxes, seizures and auctions. I am not putting the refugee and the other problems in this debate. Sadly, however, there is not only a way out of the crisis, but the country is heading into a specific memorandum of understanding, with the only certainty of the continuity of taxes and the constant austerity, while the government remains in power. We have heard our rapporteurs present the problem that has arisen there by the leadership of the Ministry of Finance and by the government as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, what is the reality? The reality is that 50% of Greeks owe tax. Does anyone question that? Nobody! People's due tax debts touch 100 billion euros. Every month Greeks leave unpaid on average about EUR 1 billion of debts. Also, one million taxpayers have been confiscated and two million more citizens will be confronted with seizures in the next period. Auctions for tax debts will be followed, and I must remind you that the auctions of residential and business have already begun, without any framework for protecting the first home, especially for low-value real estate. Ladies and gentlemen, overtaxation does not just dismantle the middle-class. It dissolves the economy, breaks the country itself. Public revenues in 2017 until now are reduced by EUR 3 billion and income tax revenues decreased by EUR 1.1 billion. This alone demonstrates that the fiscal capacity of the citizens has been exhausted and unfortunately their incomes are constantly shrinking. Against this reality, Mr. Tsipras' account of a clean exit from the memorials collapses. The Government in the 2018 budget shall include measures amounting to EUR 1,9 billion. Then let me say that these measures affect all citizens and especially the economically weaker ones. We are experiencing the consequences of a disastrous term of office culminating with the government's policies, following the disastrous negotiation of the first half of 2015, for which so far no apologies have been heard in this Chamber. Since then, the government has imposed on the Greeks twenty-seven new taxes and measures totalling 14.5 billion euros. Ladies and gentlemen, because we heard the drum impacts on tourism, we must say that a large productive sector which has been extremely affected in this time is the tourism sector. And you know that the SYRIZA - ANEL government is responsible for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u94	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u95	Mr Polakis, you have the right to question it, but since Mrs Papanatsiou is here, it is an opportunity to respond to us because residence has increased from 6.5% to 13%. Indeed, Mr Polakis, Mrs Papanatsiou, in a debate in plenary, tabled the view that 'thank you we do where the focus did not go to 24%'. We owe our gratitude, gentlemen of the government! You received VAT at the focus of 13% and took him to 24%. You increased HNVIA to hotels and rented rooms and the rate of taxation in businesses from 26% to 29%.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u96	I understand your anxiety, Mr. Polakis, as I know your sympathy for tourism. However, it is undeniable that the numbers of the Bank of Greece and especially the Institute of Economic Tax Studies, whose very interesting study turns your interest to read. Additionally, you have announced with effect from 1 January the night charge, i.e. an additional tax. The increase in taxes, ladies and gentlemen, on tourism has a crucial impact on competitiveness. I want you to know what is happening in Croatia, Turkey, Italy and Portugal. I must remind you that tourism survives mainly for the sake of the negative juncture in Turkey and Egypt, but above all it survives in the interests of the dynamic effort of Greek businessmen, who mainly at this time give a titanium struggle to stand up from the tax raids you have imposed. And you know, we can tell typical examples why our tourism is not competitive. In the neighbouring region, in the neighbouring countries, in relation to VAT in the accommodation, from 13% in Portugal has 6%. At the focus we have 24%, Cyprus has 9%. In transport, VAT in Greece is 24% and in Portugal 8%. And you're imposing a new tax on the night! Ladies and gentlemen, let us not talk about investment. You are aware of the involvement of Afantos Golf, the issues that we lived in Kassiopi, in Greek, as well as other issues relating to archaeological sites. Where there are no problems, you create them as in golf. Where there are no archaeological sites, forest land is created. This is therefore an additional mention to us in relation to the Government's investment policy. I would also like to point out to you that in last year's budget you predicted an increase in investment by 9.1%, and there is, in fact, a fall in this target of 44%. What's going on? Will any of the government tell us? And we're not talking about growth, because 2.7% tried to revise it at 1.5%. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, just allow me to continue for a few seconds. The tolerance of the state, ladies and gentlemen of the government, is over. And you know, one of the extra burdens you create is the abolition of VAT rates on the islands. I just want to remind you that the end of this is a one-sided one. The Tsipras - Kammenos government is responsible for this. I would remind you of Mr Yunker's reference in a letter to the mayor of Kos - and not just - that he says that enforcement is due only to you. And you must respond at last to what was a survival condition and not a graceful provision. What are you going to answer the citizens of the islands, which Mr Tsipras had announced in the previous months from Nisros, the Council of Island Policy - which has not yet met - and also the aid to young entrepreneurs on the islands - which has not yet been activated - and especially what will you respond from Agathonisi to Kastelorizo, where they are unable to survive mainly after the abolition of these factors?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u97	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u98	One is the solution, ladies and gentlemen: Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the human resources of the New Democracy are ready and are ready, not above all, because the governance of the country by New Democracy is a legislative matter in the next few months, Mr President, but because the country needs a new major political and social agreement, an agreement of truth that Kyriakos Mitsotakis and New Democracy can consolidate it in the country. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Christos Karayannides from SYRIZA has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to start with something, with an element that seemed excellent to me to be heard by a member of the Democratic Alliance, and it is that we will broaden social inequalities. I want to tell you a clue. In 2017, eight hundred and ten thousand forty-eight people were uninsured patients in hospitals. The cost of their medical treatment was EUR 82 million and the references to diagnostic tests EUR 53 million. Did SYRIZA create eight hundred and ten thousand uninsured? Because it's the same number up - down with 2016. What social inequalities did SYRIZA create to find eight hundred and ten thousand people without insurance? So say things that happened in the country and not things that you imagine. I also heard with interest that the Democratic Association today - the PASOK yesterday and the Change Movement tomorrow with another PVU - discovered the independent authority for Parliament's budget. In 2014, did the Democratic Reconciliation report read it? In 2013, 2012? What did this report say? Because above - down the same - and much worse, I could say - he said then. But he probably didn't read it. The other amazing thing I hear is for the targets, that we're putting the bar high at 3.5%. I will not forget that it was PASOK - New Democracy, now Democratic Compact tomorrow's Change Movement with another VET. How much was the target they set for 2017? It was 4.5%. How much was the target they set for 2018? It was 4.2% and 3.5% from there. Are you kidding us or are you serious? So you didn't have those targets in 2014? Who signed them? Anyone else? With another VHF? Wasn't your own leadership then? We're going to the expense, which is a nice little fairy tale. The New Democracy says that in order to reduce taxation, it will cut expenditure. Yes, sir. We could, he says, save EUR 200 million, while this government is increasing it by EUR 876 million. Yeah, it's increasing. So to find out what this government is increasing as expenditure. Firstly, 360 million is to cover the costs of services of general interest in the electricity sector. Wouldn't you? Obviously, yes. That's why you left 1.5 million households without power. These are social inequalities. Secondly, expenditure on migration flows by EUR 100 million has increased. Wouldn't you do that either? Thirdly, costs increased by EUR 50 million for subsidies to agriculture. Not even that? Smaller amounts were increased for the implementation of judicial decisions, for increased yields in the European Union, for the financial support of political parties, for the reinforcement of the ELTAs. Wouldn't you do all of this? Will you tell us exactly what you wouldn't do? Why saying you would gather 200 million in general and vaguely is not a program or a deal of truth. It's a fantasy deal. I guess I'll find 200 million. Let's go to the best now. Instead, it says that we should retain the public payroll by EUR 300 million, we are increasing it by EUR 521 million. Yeah, we're raising it by 521 million euros. What's that? You're only saying the first part. The first part is indeed that. It increases by EUR 521 million, because the EUR 404 million is for insurance contributions for the insurance system that we voted on. We'd leave them uninsured? Oh, no. You would fire them, as your design was and they stopped in January 2015. Of the EUR 521 million, then, is EUR 404 million. The other 100 what is it? It's the hiring-out difference that went from 1.4 to 1.5, which means we hired doctors, teachers and we'll hire those firefighters as contracted. Aren't you interested in health and education? Are you not interested in certain social areas in this country, when in your years not just people have fallen low, but have they been demolished? Are you not concerned that unemployment with these programmes that we can complete and implement, we have thrown it from 27% to 21% and in 2018 will fall below 20%? Do you realize that from the 9% when you got the unemployment, you took it to 27%? Do you understand that damage? The social damage in the workplace, do you understand? I heard the other one. A complaint was made about the elastic forms of work. Who voted for them? Did SYRIZA bring this legislation? Since the 'golden' eight years and after that they have occupied labour rights. Who voted for these? What about us? And you complain that today workers work flexible forms of work? Aren't you a little ashamed of what you're talking about? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. It seems that the present government will achieve its greatest goal, which is the end of the memorials. This seemed unlikely in 2015. But today we can say that it is successful. Our policy in the government produces positive results for the people's classes and for young people, but at the same time it imposes on the demands of the institutional policies which are neoliberal. We do not, however, have any excuses from now on to delay what we regard as a parallel programme for the benefit of society. In 2018, then, this will be our effort, with the passage of the memoranda, to be able to implement more social measures for those affected by all the years of the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u101	Thank you very much, Mr Karayannides. Mr Antony Gregos has the floor from the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr President. We are talking about the 2018 budget. Of course, we are talking about something that the government claims will succeed. The failure of SYRIZA - ANEL government is not sure, but the tragic is that the Greek people will again be the victim. Every year we are called upon to vote on the budget drawn up in the name of creditors. The announcements made by the competent ministers for an expected growth rate at 2.5% for 2018 and a primary surplus of 3.82% of GDP has been shown to be purely accounting approaches to neoliberal perception and a product of the continuous retreat made by the government in its Memorandum obligations. The Greek worker, the Greek retired person, the Greek small businessman, the Greek farmer, the uniforms, the multitudes, the third parties, the merchants, the remaining craftsmen will again be the sector that will be affected. It will literally be dissolved. You remember exactly the works and days of the Samara - Venizelos junta, which we demolished and which has committed a series of criminal acts, with the top of the destruction of the constitution and the insult of the civil society. Of course, suicides, padlocks, tolerance, misery did not stop. They continue with your own rule, for you are faithfully carrying out every command of loan sharks, which you too are serving. These are the memorial policies. They are also executed by the Executive Prime Minister. Of course everyone is aware of the lies that evocates and continues to evacuate, as I said before, the executive Prime Minister and the ministers, with a top lie that comes out of the memorials. The only people who are not affected are the people of interlocutors and interests and, of course, illegal immigrants. Victims, as I said, are Greek citizens. An indicative one in two pensioners will receive a pension of 550 euros after 2019, as the Single Network of Pensioners denounces. Over a hundred thousand low pensioners will see a new cut in EKT in 2018, their own money. New basic pensions will be less than 30%. In January 2019, when all pensions will be recalculated, pensioners will lose up to 18% of their main pension and subsidiary pension due to the reduction of the personal difference, up to 300 euros a month. However, reductions will not be 18%, but will also reach 25%, because not only is pension cut due to personal differences, but the benefits of husband and child are also abolished. The padlocks succeed each other throughout the territory. In Thessaloniki, poverty continues and unemployment is on the verge. Unemployment will grow and nobody believes in the false elements of reducing it. The data and reality are completely different. Do the budget codes actually show revenues from the collection of party debts? What about their subsidies at last? Revenues and expenses are those. You have made the Greek people, a proud people, begging them to live with allowances and of course turned this people against you, but you continue unintentionally. Because this is all happening, as we have said many times about the chair and the spoon. Let us also point out because of the days: no cut in the National Defence and the wage protection of the mandates. A few days ago the "Ephrodrome" came to our country, stepped on Thrace and, of course, caused and continues to provoke. In fact, fanatical Muslims also invaded Agia-Sophia, shouting "Allah is great". So let these be seen, then, by the enthusiasts of the so - called Greek-Turkish friendship and good neighborhood. To return, it is the letter of the Panhellenic Tritecs Federation. It speaks of mockery and punishment for these families, even describing your policy not as rationalization but as absurd. At some point, for example, it states: "For once again, the government has demonstrated that it operates as an executive body for specific circles of the European Union, which does not want to solve our country's demographic problem. There is no need for births of Greeks." Replacement with illegal immigrants, as I say. I'd like to submit the letter to the Minutes for it to exist. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Antony Gregos, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] On the top theme of education, I would like to make a brief reference, to hear Greek citizens also about the level of education in Greece, although most people know about it. Schools without teachers, students without books, classrooms without heat, shortages in logistics and as much as we raise the levels of education as problems increase. In the Greek universities, conditions are unacceptable and in no way reflect higher education institutions. The yards are at the mercy of the well-known strangers, your 'your own children', to break and burn, attack and target teachers. There are shortages in student homes and a lot of problems. Otherwise, the government publishes free education and freedom. I note that, for all the above references, there have been a number of questions which, in the majority of them, are not answered. This is how the relevant Ministry deals with complaints, keeping a fish silhouette. There is also a burning issue concerning university writings which students are supposedly free of charge. We are all aware that for the academic year 2017-2018 there have been major problems in the distribution of writings, so that students do not have books for the first half of this academic year. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Reconciliations between the Ministry of Education and the representative of the University Literary Association became the first issue two months ago and it was revealed that the Ministry of Education had not repaid the sums related to the cost of the last academic year's writings, which was unpredictable after touching 50 million euros. The relevant information also refers to debts corresponding to the Ministry of Education's financial obligations for previous years. Well, gentlemen, in order not to be fooled, these plastic increases in the Ministry of Education's financial data will obviously not be credited to meet the needs of education, but to get you, according to your accounting needs, the microeconomic goals you have set in cooperation with the lenders' representatives. If it is not the way I say it, please explain to us what areas there will be an objective improvement in the conditions in schools and in universities when this budget is finally passed. The same situation, of course, is happening in the health sector. We say a great 'no' along with the Greek people and the budget and you. Your political time is over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u103	Thank you very much. Please have the floor by SYRIZA MEP from Thessaloniki, Alexandros Triantafylides.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u104	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the budget in this respect in 2018 has a notoriously vigilant interlocutor, the people and the citizens. Without the citizens and, above all, the weak citizen, without the vulnerable social groups, the unemployed, the homeless, the needy, it does not mean a debate, together seeking substance and perspective, marrying the best possible. Along with the people, we're everything. Without the people we are just power managers. The dominant dilemma from today and autumn 2019 will be clear: will we go in front of the crises, criticisms, criticisms of delays, oligopoies, weaknesses, or will we go back with the folding, corruption, 2% and 8% of Missens? We're going back to wherever any stone you can pick up, and you're going to find a little scandal, medium, big? It is clear that the Greek family is limited, weighed, difficult to pass with light, electricity, child care, rent, daily expenses. At the same time, however, it recognises the other, distinct, upright course with transparency and incompatibility. At the same time as criticising us for the referendum - which, from 'yes' to 'no', we did it 'yes' - for the commitments for HISPI, for the 751, for those which were not, for the things that are happening slowly, recognized the moral advantage with one phrase: 'They are not stealing'. Are we going to go back to Missens, to the old submarines, to the C4I, to the codes of equipment that were mobile numbers, to the NOVARTIS, to CEDEFOP, to the Dynn, to the private TV channels, to the 400 million credit and unscrupulously, to the scandal of the Agricultural Fund, to the Post Office? You did all this at the same time that you abolished the gifts of Christmas, Easter and leave, leading to employment relations in a working-age-century context. I read the message of Chief Kyriaku. He says: "We are the culmination of the poorest layers and of the middle class." And he really means what was also written on twitter: "Every poor house and offshore. Guaranteed capital transfer abroad. Trust them’. This will probably be the message of their conference in relation to what it was. Because what it was is not proven by fairy tales or ideology. It turns out with what they did. You are also talking about taxes that you imposed on the five-year period 2010-2015, thirty-three billion taxes, without ever having a surplus and obviously, without ever considering giving dividends, the dividend of the people and citizens. From you he became offshore, mistress, deposit to the papers variety. Can we talk about foreign policy, about new patriotism and new national self-confidence? Should we talk about infrastructure, the completion of major projects, which started and never finished, with a saving of EUR 720 million? Where did the surplus come from, the wicked ask? It's because the hate, the remula, the stealing, the supply, the rag, the predator was cut. That's where the surplus came from. Pittsilis came from New York to say that the voluntary disclosure of incomes yielded 711 million euros. Has Stournaras, the main symposium, come to the Finance Committee to say that 1.5 billion has contributed to the budget to plastic money and POs, which could not have been implemented in 1990, 2000, in 2010? SYRIZA and Tsipras had to come to do so and deal with what the European Commission and the Commission said about 10 billion stolen VAT, for tax evasion. Mr. Pittsilis also says something else. As he said, it is going to be the third voluntary disclosure arrangement over the last ten years, which has been successfully crowned, in contrast - says Pitsilis, the Independent Public Revenue Authority, we have not chosen it, the institutions have chosen it - with the poor performance of the two previous regulations. Why is that? What were they afraid of now and ran to declare EUR 7 billion to pay a tax of EUR 711 million, while in the past two times - as Pittsilis said - the yield was low? Why is that? The conclusions belong to the citizens, who are well acquainted with them, with simple arithmetics. You are talking about the surpluses that you had agreed on, Samaras - Venizelos, 4.2% and 4.5%, compared to the humble one that SYRIZA managed to make with the negotiation, 0.5% and 1.75%. Because if we had not had an objective agreed with the institutions of 0.5% and 1.75% and we had been left to your own surpluses of 4.2% and 4.5%, not a social dividend, nor a pastele would the people, the weak, the vulnerable social groups, the homeless, the poorer, the unemployed, who now reach 1,200,000. Is that enough? Oh, no. Do we have to give more? Yes, more needs to be given. Because the objective must not be aids, allowances, aids, aids, benefits, aids, but a great debate on growth, in order to raise the cake, is new jobs, new investments. That's what the government does. That's what Tsipras does. At the seven development conferences and seven other to be held, he discusses with people who know they are from all sides, but he knows that there is a common denominator who is home, perspective, hope. In the summer of 2018 we will go on this road, on the avenue of perspective and hope, together with the people. And you will stay to express off shore, massages and deposits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u105	Thank you very much, Mr Triantafylides. I very much ask Mrs Olga Kefaloyannis from New Democracy to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr President. You live a little in your world, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA - ANEL, because today we are discussing your third budget, the social injustice, analgesia and the deception of Greek citizens is once again fully and clearly reflected. And the huge burden of your failure, all these years you have been in power, you load it raw and with unprecedented hardness on the backs of the Greek people. And it's not just us. You say it, too, in your cynical confessions, that you are consciously exterminated and with a project of the middle class of the country. The citizens themselves are saying so, which is clearly no longer listened to. After all, you have no contact with all that is happening in society. You do not understand the absolute weakness of hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens to find a decent job, their inability to organise their lives, to stand with dignity in their family. You obviously do not know that much of the Greek people are unable to meet even the basic needs of them, you who - in order not to forget - made your flag and took advantage of the human suffering to win power. And you have the nerve, after you have finished, because you are no longer useful to your previous account, the resistance to lenders, now to your new account of regularity and exiting the memorandum, at the same time as attacking the Greek people with a series of painful measures in the 2018 budget, as well as other measures that are to be imposed in 2019. Ladies and gentlemen, the third memorandum, the Memorandum of Left and Fraud, the 100 billion euros of your failed negotiation, the 14.5 billion new measures, the capital control, the mortgage of the Greek property for the next nine nine years, all describe your policy and its results in the most dramatic way. Your insistence on overtaxing by direct and many indirect taxes is a given, confessed and conscious choice, a wrong recipe that you insist ideolatively use. You have made a sack of boxing in the middle class and at the same time you - supposedly - on the left, sensitive and in solidarity poverty is becoming more and more of the Greek people. You do poverty a policy tool. Do you have the courage to talk about a fair distribution of tax burdens? How? With the painful and highly irreversible and burdensome measures of EUR 1.9 billion to be implemented in 2018? I am referring, for example, to some of them, to a reduction in the CSCE, to the abolition of the exemption of medical expenses, which lose two million citizens, to the abolition of a reduction in tax, to increased contributions to free professionals, to undermine the competitiveness of tourism through the increase in VAT on the islands and the imposition of the fee of accommodation, cuts in wages for a hundred and fifty thousand teams, reduction in the heating allowance. You have also specified the fourth Memorandum, which includes further measures to reduce main and supplementary pensions and, of course, a new major tax reduction, i.e. measures that will further reduce the public's available income. In our view, we will also find the high primary surpluses of 3.5% of GDP by 2023 that you have agreed and of course the constant austerity by 2060. All of you call them recovery, exit the Memorandum or whatever you think to serve your propaganda. Unfortunately, there is no return to any normality, but in a new heterogeneous and unstable context, both in terms of our country's power and in terms of the external competitive environment that has been claimed as much as you were incapable of the country's position with your experimentation. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about a budget which can easily be described as anti-developmental. It does not promote reforms and privatizations, it does not pay off debts in the private sector, it deprives the necessary liquidity in the real economy. He can't attract investment. After all, you have not understood their value, their importance to stimulate the economy. Investments form an alibi to you mainly to the lenders you have added opportunely and cynically to your political speech. Moreover - and this is particularly important in the phase of the crisis that we are in - it fails in public investment, which is clear from the differences in your initial objectives in the Public Investment Programme and from the extremely low absorption of the money of the NRP. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2018 budget is a centralised budget. It is a budget for further impoverishment of the Greek people. It is obvious that this SYRIZA - ANEL government, which sinks day after day into dark and difficult stories, cannot get the country out of the crisis. It is clear to everyone that Greece needs political change. It needs a serious, responsible government that has social sensitivity and has a realistic and modern programme, a government with knowledge of international reality, with strong alliances and prestige, to deal with the difficulties but also with the challenges that come, which will have the experience of taking back to normality, a government that will wake up and release the only forces of our people, which will turn destruction into an opportunity for regeneration. Greece needs a government that will take on the difficult task of raising the middle class, the most valuable resource of the Greek economy, the backbone of Greek society. We are sure that the great social alliance formed around our positions, the Greek government tomorrow, the New Democracy, will be able to make Greece a proud and powerful country again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u107	Thank you very much Mrs Kefaliannis. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House operates, fifty two students and students and four teachers attending at the Laconia High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Ioannis Giokas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr President. It is clear that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government is trying to support the story of the so-called memorial era on two complementary axes, deeply reactionary - we say - regardless of how communication is forged to the people. On the one hand, the so-called fair growth, on the other hand, the geostrategic upgrading of the country. The first axis is falling under the burden of what the people live, but also of those who come in the next period, and I am speaking for example. State budget, supposedly a development budget. And what does it contain? New tax-pays, new cuts in social benefits, for example CSR, new reduction in social costs. We asked the government several times, on various occasions, about the budget of the 250 million euros that the Prime Minister mentioned a month ago in the House that they would allegedly be included in the Public Investment Programme to proceed with the flooding in West Attica and wherever there is need. No one's responding. The Deputy Minister of Infrastructure spoke a moment ago. No talk. Air cut off. It's a regular job! Let's go down. Third evaluation measures. Privatisations, axe in allowances, auctions. In fact, you found, in addition to the electronic auctions and a new trick, to lift the local jurisdiction of the notaries, so that a property in Thessaloniki can come to the hammer in Athens. The next step may be going out to another country in auction. And of course we have a supplementary memorandum, measures that have already been legislated and will start to apply since 2018, in 2019, in 2020, plus what is currently being discussed in the European Union and which is an escalation of anti-population policy. So who's gonna pay for any growth? Those who paid for the years of the crisis, the employees, the self-employed, the pensioners. Who's gonna win? Business groups, large capital. And because since morning SYRIZA MPs repeat with their well-known vagueness "you don't see that everyone recognizes that Greece is turning a page?" is important and interesting to see who they refer to. In the European Union, the International Monetary Fund, lenders, international houses, the international press, all those you called 'brows' in the previous years. And we ask why not all of them reward you? We, even, unlike New Democracy and PASOK, who would like to take these praises themselves, believe that you are worthy of these congratulations, because all the measures that have not been taken by the previous speakers have been taken. And if you took more measures, they would applaud you even more. But why do you insist on invoking them? To mislead the people? That's not really it. Mostly you do it because they are basically giving tests and not only tests, you are giving guarantees that beyond the carrot, which you have been highly able to use in the past years - regardless of which one no longer has the means - you can also use the whip as well. That's why you beat the right to strike, and that's why you've got some great guys writing about the violent and extreme JRC that's breaking the law - it looks like you've also become fans of "law and order" - and that's why you're following this policy. We come to the second governmental objective, the geostrategic upgrading of the country, which does not concern either the peace or the solidarity of the peoples, but concerns the participation of Greece, the Greek capital in the competitions and designs of the imperialists in the region, the sharing of the markets, the 'pliachiko' which is currently being carried out especially in our region. After all, foreign policy is always a continuation of internal policy. You can't have a philanthropic policy in favour of the people, when you're the first to "blood" your own people. Hence the colleges with Trump and the United States for new military bases and aircraft markets, hence the upgrading of your relationships, common exercises with murderer states, such as Israel, which at this time, because of the US Government's decision, is escalating its attack on the Palestinian people when you two years ago have not dared to go ahead with the recognition of the Palestinian state, despite the fact that there was a decision by the Greek Parliament. Hence the sale of weapons to states such as Saudi Arabia, which also take precedence over the bloodshed of the peoples, thus the release of 4 billion every year for NATO's needs, when newly recruited soldiers in the Mesolongong eat sysate with worms! And it is of great importance that the Greek people beside the fight for wages, wages, pensions, income, put their fight against these warplanes, against the imperialist war, which, like the economic crises, is a genuine child of this barbaric exploitation system. This not only must not be accepted by our country to participate in the bloodshed of other peoples, but also because history has proved not only a few times that this policy nor sovereign rights protects nor safeguards the danger of the Greek people finally being involved in this massacre. The exact opposite. And Erdogan's visit, by upgrading all Turkey's claims to the detriment of the country's sovereign rights, is the most characteristic example. And this result cannot be concealed or covered by the advertising of economic agreements between parts of the Greek capital, of which people have nothing to gain. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I conclude, Mr President, by saying this: on this basis it is clear that we are seeking to defeat your policy as a JRC. It is obvious that we are seeking to defeat the strategy of capital and all the parties that implement it, because its implementation will be a router for the people. It is also obvious that we ourselves want the people to question the legality, the legitimacy of this system that serves the interests of the few, and not only to question it, but also to make the conditions for overthrowing it. And he will do it and the sooner he does it, the better for him.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u109	We thank my colleague from the Communist Party of Greece. The Deputy Minister of Sports and Culture, Mr Vasiliadis, will be inserted and Mr Psarianos will be followed. Minister, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u110	Ladies and gentlemen, we are at the end of the deep night of the Greek economy and are discussing the last Memorandum of Understanding. We are at the end of a period of social injustice and violent redistribution of the wealth of Greek society. As much as the opposition is trying to distort reality, by rushing the common sense, without a trace of self-criticism for everything that brought our homeland to the edge of the cliff, as much as the bitches of the directed media of communication are crippled by a government trying to lay down basic rules in economic life, they sing trying to create panic, they cannot change reality. All of this is the deadly spear of an interoperable and corruption system that ends and its choice will be written in the third quarter of 2018 with the country leaving the deep surveillance, but with society standing up. It is a society that suffered and saw her life being destroyed by a system of power that was indifferent to her, that was indifferent to the protection of the weakest of our fellow citizens, with non-existent social infrastructure that the government has been able to build, consolidate and consolidate in two and a half years to ensure access to the basic goods of the most vulnerable groups. In democracy there are no children and no scoundrels. It is the government's duty to ensure and protect, not the lawful tax-gatherers of offshore, not the Golden Boys who have been partying all these years through a sick state-owned entrepreneurship that reigned and depended on public money, but the unemployed, the low-wages, the professionals, the healthy businessmen who this system of interconnectivity threw them out of the market. The current budget is another step in this direction, with targeted social costs, with support to our vulnerable fellow citizens, with rationalisation of the real wastes and emphasising the substantial costs that make our fellow citizens' lives decent and access to basic goods easier. In the same logic we move to sport. By keeping the central service costs low, we manage for the second consecutive year to keep the transfer payments to the supervised operators, federations and national sports centres stable for the 2016 Olympic year, with the forecasts in the General Secretariat of Sports to show that at the end of the year we will be able to talk about an increase in financial flows to our federations, which will be between 5% and 10%. This is because it begins to bear fruit in the effort to restructure the sports centres which, together with the partnerships with the private sector for the benefit of the public and the society we do, lead us year after year not only to save resources and to economic consolidation, but also to serious interventions in these infrastructures, which were dedicated to their fate and which we are making a titanic effort, a great struggle to make them safe for our athletes, our children and Greek society. Month after month we pay off the outstanding debts, accumulated debts of years written in the snow by so-called surviving economic life and honors of this government. Only last year we paid more than 1 million euros in late-stage debts, and for another year we were called upon to pay more than 4 million euros in court decisions of your 2004 Olympic Games. But there's no point in talking about the past. People know and they judge. That's why he sent you, and he'll have you for many years still in the chairs of counterpopulation. With the consolidation of economics and the increased public investment programme of the General Secretariat of Sports, we are moving towards integrated intervention in sports centres. Already the auxiliary fields and the track of Katratzoglou are a point of reference for the Greek track. The interventions to the abandoned R&D&I of Thessaloniki, in cooperation with the municipalities concerned and the region, are progressing. At the same time, interventions in Yannina, Napatto, Corfu and Komotini are proceeding. There are great interventions in Crete, in projects that are a milestone of your inability and corruption, a corruption such as the swimming pool of Chania. We are at the final stage of drawing up the plan for renovation of the entire property, since we have managed and regained the ownership of the environment. I remind you that it's what you gave to the HICP without any care. We are drawing up a comprehensive plan to create a modern sporting, social and economic polo, which will be a milestone for the region, a polo that will be financially self-sufficient, as already in 2018, we estimate that it will self-finance itself to such an extent that the state grant is reduced to between 30% and 50%. And this without a burden on the local people's and associations, or a discount on the quality of the services provided. At the OECD, we are in the process of creating an integrated business plan, in cooperation with the supranational, which is moving towards exploiting sports infrastructure, ensuring our national teams and our federations and creating poles of mass sport, at the same time as trying to find solutions for the housing issues of large groups of Attica and financial self-sufficiency in an installation that put the public sector more than EUR 12 million a year per year in and we have managed to put it down to half and I think that next year we will go even better. In cooperation with the regions and under the new law on the licensing of sports establishments, which this government has brought about, we are moving immediately to record all the problems of the country's major sports infrastructure, with a view to direct intervention, so as to ensure that they are operated for the first time in legality and security. For our federations, which give a great deal of struggle to keep Greek sport up, we, as I said before, maintain, for the third year, a stable economic environment, which, together with the institutional interventions that are being made, will be able to ensure a peaceful planning regime, undeniably pressed, but without unpleasant surprises. With the debt arrangements, with the streamlining of rents, we create this financial margin to resuscitate. And the successes of this summer show that we are slowly getting back on our feet. At the same time and within the next ten days we proceed to pay the premiums for the successes of our athletes for the years 2013, 2014 and most of 2015, with a view to making full payment for the people who keep the flag of our country high, giving our fellow citizens smile for the future that comes and is in our hands to make it worthy of our people and the history of our country. We are doing all this with the proper financial management and the over-performance of the Greek economy, against the Kassandres of a fatalist and interdependent opposition. He had us pick the country up from the obscurity and inconvenience that the climax system had thrown it away. Every shadow was brought to justice. Rules are in the dark governance systems. Rules have been introduced in the EVO and we celebrate, like a third-world country that we have been all these years, that the Greek law applies to a Greek national entity. We have ensured supervision of international organisations against a dark system of power and we are here to ensure equality and legitimacy. With the interventions that come for the federations, for their administration, for economic accountability and transparency, with the control by the Chief Inspector for Public Administration, we open a new page in Greek sport. In parallel to the good management of the Public Investment Programme, with the eighty-five projects that run around the territory, works of substance rather than ribbon, we change the country's sports map. The day before yesterday in Agrini we launched a ghost project, a project announced in 1995, joined the Public Investment Programme in 1996, in an election campaign, for ashes in the eyes, as usual, of the citizens and voters, and remained, after the first work was done, unformed and neglected, demonstrating the political planning that has never been in this country. It is a monument of incapacity and old-fashioned communism, in a series of works - ghosts, scattered on the ground, such as the shuttle of Painian, with blurred ownership, without permission, without a legal document, with open debts, but paid up friends contractors, and certainly ashes in the eyes of a prosperous and deceived electoral clientele. In these circumstances, in this country, where you have become part of Europe, we come with clear hands and sleeves up for work, bring it where it deserves, with society standing and the people proud. With this budget, we are finally leaving the Memorandum regime behind. You continue as you are, and as you used to do, clapped up with the corrupt client system of intertwining, which gives the battle to rectify lawlessness. You've finally entered with whatever VAT you choose, in the time of history. We, together with society, move on. You, with all kinds of lists, all of them offshore, the Panama Papers, the Paradise Papers and every list that your people are inside, go ahead. We with the people, for the people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u111	Thank you very much, Minister. I would ask Mr Psariano to speak for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u112	Thank you very much, Mr President. Another budget - I think it is the tenth budget - is in front of me, mustard, a budget - a monkey. As I said in the first budget of 2008, you throw a banana and it gets caught in the air. It is a'monitor' budget, as was the last year and all these budgets will fall out. They'll fall outside and put the world in even further. I would like to ask every citizen who is currently watching us and sees any citizen, whatever he voted for, whatever he intends to vote, if he recalls what it was like in September 2014, October 2014, in December 2014, just before the famous process of the election of the President that was under way. I do not want to remind you now how they have been and who have the most serious responsibilities that we have had in this waste bucket. I know who they are, we all know them. And they are my people and my friends and my old companions, like many of my old companions are in government and pro-government headquarters. I exclude their "frozen" partners. It's another budget that if you look at him, you'll still see numbers. As you know, a classic "caramella" in SYRIZA was "you are interested in numbers, numbers, and you are not interested in people". And it's here ha, ha, we can laugh. It's a classic budget, which cares about numbers, fake numbers, fake numbers, suspicious numbers, and cares about the average citizen, about the middle-class, about the poor, about the downtrodden, about those who have been in need so far, and now they are not making it hard. These have a signature called SYRIZANEXEL, because they're Independent Greeks, so we better call SYRIZANEXEL. It's even more symbolic the name of the partners. You have a budget that promises and wants to give, share some crumbs - you have said about dividends, etc. - while you've robbed that poor bastard there. You've got him 12, and you're giving him back 1,5. It reminds me of some locusts who have their parents in asylum and get their pensions and give them some crumbs to live in asylum with benefits, sandwiches and aids so that they can get through. This is your pursuit: the absolute impoverishment of the average citizen to be a client and to be dependent on the allowances and the bones that you are going to give them. Another "caramella" of the Left and of mine and of all the other left - because it's a tenth of them, as I've measured these left-hands - was that if your enemy praises you, something you haven't done well. I read the headline of "AGE" which reads: "Good exit from the memorials". Says who? Deutsche Bank. Deutsche Bank says ‘clean exit from the memos for Greece’. And you're selling us the fairy tale too. You're being played by the great enemy, aren't you? This loan shark, the blackmailer, the neonazi, the son of a bitch glorifies you that you are doing well, even though the representatives of these neo-nazis, blackmailers, loan sharks say "we have not." That's not all Shoeble said. Everyone has said so in all languages: those policies you are implementing, the left-wing policies, we have not asked for them. We did not ask for cuts in low wages, we did not ask for cuts in wages and annihilation of the middle class, we did not ask for overtaxation of the cherry, until death, overtaxation in everything, for a man to work all year round and the first day to get money for himself to be August 1st! Until then who works for? For customers, for the client system, which "we would change it, we would hit it". And now we sign everything, what they give us, we apply the worst, what we have to do to the band, why? To get the francs, pay the clients we appoint. The place is filled with customers. Those who are listening to us now and who have voted for SYRIZA and "ANEXEL", but I in SYRIZA will stay because I am not interested in the "broken" and the "spiled". I'm interested in my old comrades.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u113	Mr. Fisherman, please be careful of your characterizations.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u114	Mr President, the'sprayed' and 'broken' are not my concern, I am not interested.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u115	We are not concerned with your designations in this Parliament! Please. Please. You don't earn anything with these characterizations.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u116	I am interested in my old companions who eat this chop and make it a gargoy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u117	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u118	Mr. President, they eat this chop and make it a gargoy. Let me not remind you of the doors of Dachau and Auschwitz, Mr President. And my left-wing ex-boyfriends make these arrogances, because they are the customers we eat together - we drink together. And how much more! This story can't go far. You know, when a ruthless german here, disgusting, said about a Minister of this left-wing government, that "when you do, you will go to jail", an old comrade of mine, a former "grubulous" indeed, not even the Renewable Radical Left, not from a Member's position but from the Bureau's position, said "Mmm, we were afraid!" It goes on to say that we've become one. We're stuck and we're one! Because together we eat, we drink, we have fun.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u119	What does it say, Mr President? What are these descriptions?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u120	Mr. Papadopoulos, don't move my hand like that! Please don't interrupt the speaker, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u121	Mr. Papadopoulos, it's speaking time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u122	Mr President, please withdraw to class the major turbulence.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u123	I've recalled you and everyone. Please, Mr. Papadopoulos!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u124	If you do not like them, do not tolerate them and do not suffer them. And not'submissive', which some say. By the way, the 'three and a half billion' and 'three and a half per cent' are 'three and a half' and not 'three and a half', because if we take half off, three percent is not 'playing'. Let's fix some in this Chamber. I'll finish by saying these fairy tales won't go far. Someone says about a change in VAT, PASOK, Olive, or the Democratic Compact. I've never been PASOK, I've never been with the governments. I have always been a left-wing opposition, to remind all of us of it to me. But I would remind you of these changes in parties, because many people say that I am changing parties like my shirts, that I am changing the parties so that I don't want to do fucked-ups and cubes and wheels, the ground exercises they do in the halls of this House. Because that's what you're doing. So I don't want to do the shitheads and change strategies and tactics every three months depending on falling bikini, so I'm stable on what I'm saying. I have never changed, nor have I hidden my pro-European face nor my liberal psychiatry. You apply neoliberal measures and boast that you are left and progressive. These fairy tales aren't eaten by people and they won't eat them again. As long as you serve, you get tired of the ham and your old customers of sanctifications eating ham. They're bored! And the charges of those who support you are three.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u125	Mr. Colleague, you've reached nine minutes. Finish it, please. Respect the next ones!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u126	Or are they foolish and "Goldenfish", chosen customers with a goldfish memory or are ideoleptically stuck to think that they will make fun of the system and at the end "we will bring it to the People's Republic of Honecker" - and I do not know whose - "Chaves or Madurus" - Madurus "remadurus". Or the third category is the customers, the ones who eat with you and drink with you. You'll keep the last ones. I don't know if you're gonna keep the first and second charges and how many.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u127	Mrs. Big Housekeeper has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, Mr President. So another year has passed and we have arrived on the budget day. We have a damper every year. What can we do? He's here today, too. And in 2017 we say that the budget went very well, and in 2018 it will go even better. It'll probably go worse. I read in "Google" that, today in 1953, Greece deleted the debt Germany had to its face. We are not, unfortunately, debt-sharing ourselves. And it is also a big problem that only one of Oz's magicians could with such taxation, overtaxation - direct, indirect taxes, reduction of allowances, etc. - that the debt should go from EUR 313 million to EUR 338 million. We're Oz's magicians? In other words, we are increasing taxes and increasing the debt. We can't figure it out. I would therefore like to deal with something else with borrowers. There was a law, Law No.128/1975, with which he made a special contribution to banks to boost exports. Then the Monetary Committee put it. This contribution was paid by the banks, when they gave a loan, they had to put something in a bank for export. After becoming one of Europe's currency in 2002, this continued and the banks thought it good to give it up, to transfer it to borrowers to pay for it. And so, no government since 1975 - and the New Democracy, because you and PASOK are also looking at the New Democracy and the PASOK conflict - has not abolished it. Forty years you have carried this contribution, which banks should have paid for export to the borrower. So, billions of dollars have been raised. I'm telling you, the banks have raised billions. And the Minister comes in 2015 -- he was n.128/1975- with n.4336/2015 to tell us that this money must exist in the Bank of Greece and is not in the budget, because it is not a tax. It was a export bank contribution. If it were tax, it would be budget revenue and not only the borrowers would pay, I would inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that all citizens would pay. Taxes concern all citizens, not all borrowers, who now take their homes. It comes in 2015 n.4336 and says in paragraph 16: ‘After the account of n.128/1975 and by decision of the Minister of Finance, only those affected by natural disasters and terrorist acts, as defined in the existing provisions, will be subsidised. Loans granted in implementation of the Ministerial Decisions already adopted shall not be affected by the provisions of the present provisions.’ So, what measure did you take, Mr. Finance Minister, the money paid by the borrowers to a contribution that the banks poorly moved to the borrowers? You became the New Democracy and the PASOK and you continue. What are borrowers? A charitable institution that covers earthquakes, infections and stiffness? The banks are anonymous corporations and they have an obligation. Loaners are not a charity. If it was a law of the state, I'd say it. But it's not the law of the state. They've raised billions. We need to stop the auctions now. The banks need to be checked. This job has been since 1975, forty years. Indeed, Mr Tsakalotos said that for 2015, which was EUR 800 million, and in 2016, which was EUR 860 million, they compensated the firemen. With what right did you compensate the firemen, Minister? With the borrowers' money illegally? The banks are robbed on the one hand, the government accepts it on the other, becomes occult and pays the firemen. What's the borrower? Stop auctioning right now, check the banks and see how much billions have been raised. It's over 20 billion. And if you like it, every borrower will get what he has paid and be deducted from his loan. You're not supposed to take his house and have paid for them with his blood. In 2015 and 2016, from the red loans, the Minister tells us that 816 and 860 million euros were raised and you gave something for the firemen and the others you put it for the 'cushion', I ask you: What right did you put on a pillow? It's not a law of the state. It's not taxation. It is not included in the budget anywhere. I also submit the documents that have come from the General Secretariat of Economic Policy, the Directorate for Financial Policy, which says they are in the Bank of Greece, but they are not the law of the State. They are not included in the budget. I also present the Official Journal of the Government, where L.4336/2015 was published, to see the Minister. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Theodora Megalonikou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] He can't take the money from the borrowers who poorly moved it to the borrowers and make them a charity and take the homes. Check the banks now and start over. It's not right what you're doing. You're another government that's supposed to be left and you're helping the poor. So why did you accept it, and you have continued it since 2015? I had a lot to say about the budget, but I think that's what is of great interest to people, because soon their houses will be auctioned with electronic auctions and the bad mess will be when the new owner goes out. It's going to be what happened in Spain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u129	Thank you very much to the Independent Congressman, Mr. Big Housekeeper. Mr Nikolaos Papadopoulos has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr President. "Here we are again here, Andreas" which says the song. I would like to start with taxation. It is also said that we are conducting a tax policy and constantly taxing, especially in agricultural incomes and in ECA. But earlier on, I would like to say that we did the development conference in Larissa a while ago. For the rural part, the meeting lasted seven hours, there were hundreds of farmers and cooperatives and people who said exactly what they wanted for the agricultural sector. Some days later, the New Democracy conference was also held. In the respective part, the meeting took place in two hours and six people spoke - so that they could recapture the agricultural sector - and there they said things and wonders about what they will do with taxation. But we didn't hear what they're going to do with the FBI. Will they abolish the FBI? When we were talking here in the House, you said you would abolish it. In Larissa, you didn't say if you were going to abolish the EVA. You said when you came, you would change the tax system. You told Larissa that you would put a rate of 9% to 10,000 euros, but without specifying what tax is. You're saying the tax-free will be at 6,000 euros. Will you have tax-free? You have not answered whether you will have tax free on agricultural income. How will you identify the agricultural income? Is the backup going to be in? Is "creaming" going to be in? Will the balancing be in there? You're not saying that. You say 'we will have a rate of 9%'. We come to this. You're making fun of the world. In the Thessalonica some of you have understood very well what you want to do. You want to tax the majority of farmers so that the big farmers don't pay more. To go to our tax system, as we have shaped it. To get the 2016 data we have. What is it here? That all farmers who made an income statement paid 129 million. In 2015 they paid 175 million. What overtax are you talking about? What overtax? I mean, we call numbers, and when we go down, they don't come out. One second, we should go to the FBI. The figures here show that the incomes from EUR 5 000 to EUR 9 000 are 89% -90% of farmers. So they pay 88 euros a month. What overtaxation do you talk about and get all 65% of it together? The real facts are disgusting to you very specifically and simply. You're talking about the VAT rate. Yes, sir. Let's see the VAT route. The coefficient was 18% and was up until 2005. Since 2005 it has become 19%. Then we go to March 2010, which became 21%. In July 2010, he went up again to 23% and we, when we came in 2015, took him to 24%. So, from 23% to 24% is a tax raid? The other one from 18 percent to 23% what is it? Gifts? How do you draw these conclusions and say them? But you will have to prove exactly how you do taxation. You said at the conference and other things I'm going to talk about. You said about cooperative organizations. Yes, sir. You went to Larissa and went to the bankrupt "AS LARISAS". And you're talking about partnerships you went bankrupt? Why don't you make a self-critic? We are now coming to resolve this issue of bankrupt cooperatives, and we are trying to set them up. You're saying you're going to abolish HISPIA from the fields, etc. How are you gonna do that? Where are you going to get the money? We should go to the farmers' tax even more and tell you something more. Each farmer has a different tax-free income depending on his income. There is also a farmer - I will say it because it is not possible - to have 20,000 tax-free, to have 25,000 tax-free and 15,000 tax-free. Why? For we have taken out the various aids, such as 'drug'. You said - and he became a whole dome in Larissa - for Acheloos. I want to read to you exactly what you said there. The completion of the Mediterranean and the dam of Sykia and a partial transfer, not a diversion, of water from Acheloos to the Thessaly plain, of 200 million cubic metres of water, depending on the climatic conditions and studies to be carried out, on the Acheloos basin. Say hello to the plank! Why are you afraid to say we're changing position? Because what really is the right position? The one the Prime Minister told Larissa. I mean, it's not going to be the diversion of Acheloos. We will see the works, because there have been projects and we will see how we can use them very well. I'm getting to the point of the great diplomacy you played for the feta. You supported the feta, which you abolished. You see the government at all times is trying to secure the name. What about the feta? 'We will support the interprofessional association for the name of feta.' Do you draw the conclusion from what you said that you will secure the feta in this way, and in international conditions do you not today support the government to secure the signal? Will you support the inter-professional association? If that is a pro-agricultural policy, let the farmers see it. What I want to say in closing is that we do not retreat. We support the small and medium-sized farmers, we support the cooperative idea. We will rebuild the cooperatives and the folklore will remain outside and the authority of this cooperative will return to the hands of the farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u131	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Georgios Vagiona from New Democracy for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u132	Mr President, Minister, in 2008 in Greece we had 13.5 million people insured. But how does a country have 13.5 million people, when it has 9.5 million people? Were they all insured? They were double - secured, triple - secured, that is, they paid twice, three times, four times. Near these insured, however, there were a hundred forty - seven insurance funds. They had the autonomous administrations. The administrations decided what supplementary pensions would give, without any proportionate study, what prospects, how many pensioners, etc. Don't get too far. So then, then, the then - law government of Petralia decided that forty - seven funds would make seven. There was a lyric reaction from the then opposition of PASOK, saying that "there are" etc., as well as from SYRIZA. You had just selected your new president in 2008. So that was an event undeniable. The second thing that this law provided for was that, when the insurance funds were to give a pension of more than 20% of the main pension, there had to be a Minister for Labour and Finance. You did not accept that either. You rejected that, too. But unemployment then, ladies and gentlemen, was 8%. In 2009 the Prime Minister decided to open an election, because it did not go any further, he said the whole truth: "No increases, no recruitment." Mr Papandreou said "the money is there" and SYRIZA promised him "Let it be, this is another priest gospel, we talk about it another time". So, where are we today? We are in three million pensioners, half of whom - not in my own words, on the basis of the Commission and on the basis of the Single Retirement Network - are the newly poor and the poor, the very poor who cannot even live, the 'gods' who say in my own country, another and a half million. How do these things result in tidal lines? The high-pays were PPC's, OTE's. The double pensioners, the triple pensioners, on average - not surprising - had 3,300 to 3,700 monthly income. This is multiplied by fourteen monthlys and you will find about 50 grand, plus two more. Fifty grand. Ask how much money a PPC employee, OTE, a doctor, engineer, had two insurance funds. They took 3,500 euros a month. So how many do they get today? They get 1,300 euros to 1,500 euros, that is, you got 70%. But the other one, who was receiving 400 euros, the "gods" that we say, takes about 550. I'm not saying it's enough. But they were godless. I guess you're strengthening them. But it is very unfair to take 70% from a man who works thirty - five years, takes two or three pensions that he paid and share not from growth, but from money that you got from people who had an increased pension. I mean, not that they were rich. People didn't have the millions. They lived human, decently. As to how much money we spent between 2002 and 2012, in a decade we gave pension funds about 200 billion, i.e. 17% to 18% of GDP per annum, as long as all pensions are today. This, gentlemen of SYRIZA, you keep until today, until 2021. In 2021 you will take it to 12% of GDP and then see what you are going to do. You've been catching it from now on. How do you catch up with him? The Katougalu law. You come and tell the old pensioners that "we will have a reduction in pensions of up to 18%". It may be 10%, it may be 12%, but you say up to 18%. For the new retired people, who are after the Katrugalu law, how much will the reduction be? It'll be 30%. I am not talking about the ESS, which in one or two years, in 2018-2019, ends. I am not talking about reducing new supplementary pensions. I'm not talking about reducing the one-off. But I'll say a few words about health. You're saying there's no health cut. However, this year's EUR 20,037 billion is becoming less than 599 million. I heard the Minister speaking in Corfu saying: "We will not give any more money, but we will make an economy, because we will have an excess from the EEA", the bankrupt, "and we will strengthen the ESA". That's not even in the sphere of imagination. You also say that here things are so simple, because there are hospitals available. What is available? The hospitals that don't have the gauze, that don't have the elementary drugs, will they have an excess? That is all you can understand. The magic word is one, ladies and gentlemen. It's growth. But what growth? The growth that does not have any state of mind is inconsistent. If there is no sound public partnership with private sector everywhere, the state is not going to see a pretext. Why? Because there won't be any growth. Development takes place on a private initiative. It can be made by the state in all areas. I said next time - and a lot of people were struggling - that hospital beds are more than they need and structures a lot more. Co-operate with the private sector and take 50%, give 49% of individuals, profits - almost half of them, and if there are damages, take half of the damages - with the state. Do not forget, ladies and gentlemen, that you are being bored in the first eight months of 2015. You bring it too heavy, but the debt has increased by 100 billion. That's the truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, Mr. Bagiona. Mr. Theocratic has the floor from SYRIZA for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr President. You've cut your pensions, Mr. Comrade. That 70% that you cut, you own it. You can't blame us for both. We didn't cut them because the contributions to the free traders, who have high incomes, increased. You cannot blame us for both the contributions that have increased to those who have high incomes and pensions that have not been cut out of us. In other words, you have made twelve continuous reductions in the sectors that you mentioned, in order to keep the vast majority at its levels, we have made this sacrifice, that is, for the first time, paid large contributions from professionals with large incomes, because the contributions of small income professionals have been reduced. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating the third budget of our Government, SYRIZA - ANEL - Echokogos, the Government of Alexis Tsipras, and it is the last budget within the memorandum. As much as you do not want, gentlemen of the counter-population, we will take the country out of the memorials, after the success and fast - not easy - closure of the third assessment, as we reasonably expect the fourth one to be closed. So we are the ones who will draw up the first memorial budget next year and will even implement it in 2019. And the objectives we set with this budget, namely stability, sustainable development and social justice, will be implemented more widely with the 2019 budget and then we will be judged and compared to the elections by the Greek people. You used to say that "this budget is the last budget you will do". Now you don't have much of it. You had a perception, gentlemen of the New Democracy and of the PASOK, that only you know how to rule, that we are supposedly incapable, we will throw the country on the rocks, the cutter will be activated, and other things that say specific channels too. Others say and this is a profound anti-democratic perception which affects the Greek people, for which of course you have been disproved, because we keep the steering wheel of the country steady - more stable than you - in the fermented waters of the memorandum, to which you have put us and we will continue to keep it in the calmest after they leave us. We are talking about a country that is bankrupt, which you have gone bankrupt with the well-known terrain, namely bankrupt businesses - wealthy business, bankrupt ministries - wealthy politicians, bankrupt banks - wealthy bankers, bankers, bankrupt SMEs - wealthy canals with them and poor people. We are driving the country into social justice, fair and sustainable development, fiscal stability. You will tell me the stability we say we succeeded he also claimed that Antonis Samaras had achieved it, whose policies New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis have been so defended and exhumed lately. What are the differences in Samara's stability with Tsipra's stability? Of course, Samaras, with an Interior Minister, Mr. Mitsotakis, gave clear signs of stability. Twelve horizontal reductions in wages and pensions, horizontal redundancies, threats of compulsory unfavourable evaluation and dismissal of civil servants. And it is a good question if there is a public official who wants to support and vote for Mr Mitsotakis today. He's probably gonna suffer from the Stockholm Syndrome that you're falling in love with your rapist. But let us see, for example, what one means and what another, when he says stability and normality in the political life of the country. Red loans sound too much and most are inaccurate. What did New Democracy do? The horizontal protection of the main residence was abolished on 31-12-2013. It was extended for one year with a responsible statement made by the borrowers with Law 4224/2013 and was definitively abolished on 31-12/2014 by the Government of Samara - Venizelos and, indeed, in an election period. If you see the rhetoric of New Democracy and PASOK officials since the summer of 2014, it is clear that they had agreed to completely abolish the protection of the first home and the Katseli law. So the households go. Those protected were protected until 2014 for the New Democracy. The commercial world had zero protection from the law Trees. He admits it himself, that the law didn't walk. There was nothing for the borrower. What do we do? The Katseli Act was extended to debts in the public and insurance funds under Laws 4336 and 4346 until 31-12-2018. We focused on popular homes in particular valued homes. In fact, they had the opportunity and the great - valued houses - Akali, Psychic, we were saying - in November and December 2015 that they should also take refuge in the law of Katseli. It was also voted - and this is very important - and Law 4469 on traders, who, when we discussed it, the New Democracy was against it, was again with the banks. Remember these things. We have improved the Banking Ethics Code and we also have the "masters' agreement" to suspend auctions for real estate of up to EUR 300,000, which gives us time to take further improvements. Let us look at the example of PPC, because it concerns us, especially in our region. What does New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis think and what did he do with PASOK? A horizontal sale of 30%, including lignite and water, without the judgment of the European Court of Justice. While Kyriakos Mitsotakis has repeatedly been hostile to PPC's employees and pensioners, they take a lot. What you are talking about, ladies and gentlemen, seems to him a lot of your Chief. He wants to make more cuts. He's saying it clearly. It's honest. What do we do? Following the adoption of the compulsory judgment of the European Court of Justice, we limit the impairment of lignite plants, which represent a small proportion of PPC's total power. We are saving hydroelectric, maintaining wages and pensions, and we are preparing a plan for the transition of the lignite regions to a new, post-linguistic period, with the interests of the region, the workers and the environment project. That's what we mean and we do. These are our differences. That is what we mean and we do, when we say stability, and that is the New Democracy. Regarding the other narrative that exists, where they mention growth, entrepreneurship, what does New Democracy and PASOK mean? What they knew. They've taken samples. It's not secret. They mean state-owned entrepreneurship with sea loans, with profits in Paradise Papers, with damage to the Greek people. That is what they want to do again - let the people who know, that is to say - and without respect for the environment and for the workers. And we have the intertwined media to support them. To sum up, we have reduced unemployment. Uninsured people go to hospitals, 800,000 per month was the cost of Adonodos Georgiadis Minister for Health, 15 million per month is now. We made the humanitarian crisis card, paid free tickets to the unemployed, social income of solidarity, we have increased social and family allowances - expenditure from 100,000,000 in 2015, 270,000,000 in 2016, 720,000,000 in 2017 reached 1.020,000,000 in 2018. We have an increase in exports, an increase in investments, a record of tourism and a distribution of surpluses. You, gentlemen, have a surplus in scandals and corruption and in Paradise Papers. That's what you know, and that's what you trust in in the crisis. In these we and our budget have been cut and the Greek people will put a cut in the 2019 elections to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u135	Thank you very much, Mr. Theocratic. Please come to Stepma, Mr. Michael Jeleighs from the Democratic Reconciliation. Here, Mr. Jelloney, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in this top parliamentary procedure for the budget debate, hearing these hours when I am in Parliament's Chamber, first of all, speakers on the part of the codecision procedure, really, analyzing a virtual reality, I feel that they have no contact with the reality that exists in society. That's how much power has alienated you? On the other hand, listening again to the Civic Opposition, I am impressed that it is unaware of and has not made self-criticism about what it delivered in 2009. He delivered a country with 15.5% deficits, 36 billion budget opening and 170 billion a year went to 300. And you're talking? And we are coming here today to discuss the third Memorandum of Understanding for the Anti-Memorandum of Understanding of SYRIZA - ANEL, which now has three years' government life. You do not operate in a politically sterile environment, so that you say, as you said in 2004, "all we slaughter them, all we stab them, we take the Greek people to heaven". These three budgets have the political responsibility of the coexistence of SYRIZA - ANEL, of the first year of governance, when, as Mr Tsipras admitted, he lived in a cloud of deceit and at his command Mr Varoufakis made the famous "baroufakia" negotiation by bringing us an inappropriate memorandum of 86 billion and 14 billion new measures to the detriment of the Greek people. It is your responsibility to make these budgets and then follow up. So you can't say so easily: 'You know, it's just the others' fault. We're innocent. We did not know.’ I will tell you what else you have done these years. Look at you, ladies and gentlemen of the cohabitation in particular, this is a coup d'état which self-confidences in a very few political terms in terms of its delusion. The worst part, however, is that at any time she's ready to see new deceit again. That is how we have this budget. It's an anti-social, anti-developmental, hard tax-centered budget. And you come here to defend him, because, he says, we share a gift to those who were massively poor. You made the poverty regime. And you come and you're proud today because you share piles when you don't even pay pensions, which are frozen and stopped since 2016. It is like what our people say: 'To burn you, Giannis, to lure you honey'. That's what you're doing. On the other hand, you can't stand without saying your fairy tale again. You are coming back and saying: 'We are now bringing this budget, but it is the last Memorandum of Understanding. We will leave the memoranda in August 2018.’ Your illusions are continuing again. After August 2018 will we return to normality, to prosperity? Are we getting away from surveillance? Will the government be able to make its own budgetary policies? Colleagues, all that will stop in August 2018 is cheap funding and not the clear exit from the memoranda, which is neither final nor safe. You also know very well that, in addition to the third memorandum, you voted in May 2017 with L.4472 and the fourth memorandum. Did you then legislate on the pre-requisites and what did you say then? That this does not match either our Constitution or the European acquis. You poured crocodile tears, but you voted for them. In 2019, when you say that it will be the first non-remembrary budget, will we not have the pension cuts under the Katrugalos law, which is from 18% to 30%? In 2020, will we not have the tax reduction that goes to 5,600? Finally, stop lying to the Greek people. Today we have a society that is suffering, is angry, cannot survive, and you come and tell him again that all your problems are over. And that was all! We now have a budget with which you still receive 1.9 billion in 2018 from the already delighted Greek households. You're cutting allowances, raising taxes, lowering wages. They still didn't get the heating allowance. They're waiting. What heating allowance? You took it to 180 million. You shared 90 last year and this year 47. You can't even share this one. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Do you understand where the Greek society is? But since you have adopted the measures before, I will remind you of the "jury" phrase, which expresses the philosophy of all of you as a coexistence: "After 2019 who lives and dies. We'll load them somewhere else." You know that you will escape from any election campaign, because you know where the Greek people have ranked you. Try again with teratipia, through customer logic, to keep while holding some rates, so that you don't get back to nightmares 3% and 4%. In relation to your left-hand sensitivity and social policies, I would like to remind you that, in addition to the part-time work you share - which is why you have reduced unemployment - one place in three - four positions, despite your left-hand sensitivity to workers' rights, you have not hesitated to draw the body of the employer's recompense, 'lockout', indirectly through the Civil Code, you have not hesitated to withdraw the veto of administrative approval from the Minister for collective redundancies. You are now also trying to bring the right to strike, 50 plus one. You're looking for a way to get it. There goes Sunday. This is in relation to collective agreements. Let us make it clear: collective bargaining ended in 2015. You suspended them and took them until August 2018. We would now have collective labour agreements. You suspended the application of collective agreements and the reinvigoration of sectoral agreements. So we should know that you have responsibilities now for where the Greek society lies. In closing, Mr President, and in relation to development, I would like to ask: what development are you going to make? One farmer said to me the other day: “Plagiar until yesterday you heard that they were going to jail either because they were stealing or because they were killing. I've been a farmer for thirty years with dairy farms. I will go to jail because I work and produce." That is your policy in the primary sector. You have destroyed the primary sector, one in all. The primary sector is social, development, it keeps social cohesion in the region. You have imposed an increase in taxes, an increase in insurance contributions, abolition by reducing the cost of production...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u137	Mr. Comrade, you're in eight and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u138	I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. You have already owed the subsidisation of agricultural oil since 2015. Give, at least, what you owe is 47 million. You stopped paying pensions in the OGA. You know that by dismantling the OGA, born in the '50s, fourteen and a half thousand people, people had to be paid on July 1st. We have an end to the year and you only paid the four thousand. You're blocking society that you're planning and reprogramming. To be clear, we cannot vote in favour of a redistribution budget for the misery, which continues to impair household incomes, and makes it even more difficult for the daily effort to survive. The budget for 2018 of SYRIZA - ANEL is not central to society...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u139	Mr Colleague, please finish. You're at nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u140	...only the maintenance of power, because you are not left, gentlemen of co-government, you are cynical rulers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u141	Mr President, it has gone far beyond time. It's at the expense of the others.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u142	Ladies and gentlemen, he's not the only one. Many exceed the time between us and you. Peace to you. Mr. Dimitras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u143	Ladies and gentlemen, I have heard voices, designations, screaming, as if you were from elsewhere. You two parties, PASOK and New Democracy, brought the country here. You two parties brought our country here. A little modesty, a little humility, a little self-criticism would take us to agree to a minimum common denominator, to help the country and the people go further. So let us keep lower tons, if you like, because this attack I think is a little theatrical, it is neither sincere nor reasonable. You say why we didn't achieve smaller primary surpluses, under 3.5%. Yes, sir. I have said this before - and I repeat it to inspire it, and we and the citizens - there is no way of agreeing better on the budgetary situation that is the country. Can anyone reach an agreement on surpluses of 1%, 1.5%, of 2% that we would need so that we do not have taxes on businesses and free traders like those we have now? The public debt is about 310 billion dollars. At the low interest rate, 2%, it takes interest a year on average 6.2 billion. That means, if we produce it in the country's GDP, only 3.5% to pay interest. How, then, will a government succeed without government debt regulation? If public debt is not regulated, whether by a large increase or at very low interest rates, there is no solution for small primary surpluses either now or in the future. This is a reality and we do not hide it, because the primary surplus of 3.5% also brings the other consequences. Public debt is the second largest in the world as a percentage of GDP. The current government received it at 181% of GDP, as it is today. Next, Venezuela with 147%, Italy with 133%, Portugal with 127%, Cyprus with 104%, Spain with 98%, France with 97%. So you understand that we are not in a normal country. Actually, we're the country with the biggest public debt in the world. The New Democracy - which is shouting and protesting - has received it, with precise figures, 199.3 billion. How much did it do? He took it 301,1 billion. In five years, that is, 2004-2009, it increased by 101.8 billion. More disastrous than that in 2004-2009 there was no country. I will read you a piece here from an article by Kostas Kallitsi from the economic "Cathederini", which reads: "If we are in regularity, the pheasyness of the period 2005-2009 would not have derailed the country. Probably, we would not have come to the point of entering a memorandum." Kostas Kallitsis writes this on Sunday 'Catherine', I think on 19-11. It is not written 'World'. So here you brought the country. What's with the screams and the voices? And if that was all! In the years when the public debt increased by 101 billion, you had primary deficits of 56 billion. In other words, you borrowed new money - beyond serving old loans - by 56 billion, an average of 11 billion a year. And what did you do? You have achieved a 31% reduction in agricultural production in these years. You have had a reduction together in agricultural production, forestry and fisheries. You have reached 3.2% of GDP in agricultural production. It is all these commitments that have led us here. That is why I say we have to look at them with another eye and with more calm tone to discuss, so that we can see where the country is, so that we can move forward. When the Members of the New Democracy and PASOK talk, they must feel the enormous responsibility of their resignations for what I have said. So, more reasonablely, without a slander, you were the same party, about the same people, unfortunately with the same policy today. It would be very good for everyone to become self-criticist and each one separately. Instead of talking about investments like the "ELDORADO GOLD" Skouries, the Greek press investments with shopping centers and casinos and hotels in Kassiopi, Corfu or the Qatar Sheikh - because that is all I hear about investments - we should see how we build a healthy and resilient economy. That's what we should talk about. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Many are shouting about Mandra's destructive, flooding phenomena. But no one wants to deal with the causes of these phenomena. We know the country was built without a plan. The plan was retrospective. It's still built out of plan, again without plan, no infrastructure, no sewerage, no networks. But no one's talking about this, about how we get out of this thing. I, expressed here the ideas of the political ecology with SYRIZA, want to work together, to make a real sustainability plan, a plan that ensures the future of our children, the future of the next generation. I think we can achieve this through this cooperation. We already have positive examples of economic progress and society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, Mr. Dimitras. Mr Stergios Giannakis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u145	Mr President, has the Ministers changed?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u146	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u147	Did someone add?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u148	Mr. Kourublis will be followed after Mr. Giannakis. He was simply transferred half an hour. Mr. Giannakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u149	Mr President, it is customary that the debate on the budget should be the top political debate of the year, reflecting the overall picture of the government's majority on where it is going and what it is seeking. You state that it is the last budget that is supposed to declare the end of the memorandum. This is your new account, such as the parallel program, the sketching of the memorials, the "No house in the hands of a banker" and so much more. It is easy to prove that this argument is yet another paradoxical promise, a new government delusion, a new virtual reality. We all know that supervision will continue until at least 2060 and that you have promised the total public property for ninety years. You say you will not impose new measures and hide the fact that in 2018 you will adopt eighty-five new prerequisites, which will change the daily lives of the citizens. You have already voted for 2018 only measures amounting to EUR 1.9 billion, the consequences of which citizens will see in their pockets next month, in January. With the budget being discussed, you are even more squeeze on the citizens' available income and you are more than anything else in the middle class. After all, in the most cynical and provocative way, both Tsakalotos and Juliarakis confessed that it is the government's choice to kick the middle class to benefit - allegedly - the poorest. What's the result? The middle class, which has always been the stylist, the most creative part of our society and our national economy, has also been negligent. In less than three years, you have imposed twenty-seven new taxes, you have gone through twenty-one pension cuts and social allowances, you have cut the EASA, you have increased the VAT, you have created the EUR 360 generation, you have already voted for two reductions in taxfree and you have imposed austerity measures of EUR 14.5 billion. Just a few of what they expect us to do: a 10% reduction in the tax credit for medical expenses. It seems that no one is allowed to become ill anymore, especially if he is poor too. Reduction by 50% of the heating allowance, i.e. four times below the heating allowance given by Samaras in 2014. EKT cut by EUR 234 million. This means that hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens will lose it and those left will lose it definitively in 2019. In addition, there is: EUR 350 million reduction in medical care. Reduction of social budget by 1.6 billion. Abolition of the unemployment benefit for new entrants on the labour market. Abolition of the benefits of poverty and natural disasters. Here I expect to see how those affected will be compensated for by natural disasters in the Preveza Prefecture, my prefecture, which has already been filed, and also in other regions of the country, which so far have only received unadulterated promises. There is also provision for abolishing the 1.5% tax deduction on employed and retired persons. New wage cuts in women and men of the Security and Army Branches. Increase in VAT rates in thirty-two islands. An increase compared to 2017 of 456 million in the income tax on natural persons. Because you're talking about social sensitivity, let's see where you're cutting these costs. You are cutting 532 million from the Ministry of Health, 129 million from the Ministry of Infrastructure and 225 million from the Ministry of Rural Development, i.e. from the three most productive ministries, which are related to social policy. At the same time, tax what's walking, what's flying and what's swimming. You are even greater in contributions to free professionals and professionals. You bear burdens on the rural world. You taxed agricultural subsidies and subsidies at a rate of 22% to 45% and more than doubled the farmers' insurance contributions. You have introduced a solidarity contribution from 2.2% to 10% and you have made a 100% tax payment to farmers. You are constantly increasing taxation, but you are constantly receiving less. For 2017 alone, the negative difference is EUR 2.9 billion less than you had budgeted. What does that mean? It means that the world can no longer respond to economic conditions, even if it wants to be consistent. With figures last September, four hundred and sixty - seven thousand four hundred eight citizens owe tax. We hear they're auctioning real estate more than 300,000, that the first home is not affected, and, and... You should know, however, that you will soon face the reality, which will also be "little" and painful, when of course the evictions will begin and the judges will knock on the doors. Is that where you can hide? We'll see about that. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by saying that this is not a question of when you will hand over power. Everyone once delivers it and, indeed, politicians far more important than you. The issue is what you will leave behind the next day, what outstandingities and what'red' codes for society and the next government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u150	Thank you very much Mr. Giannakis. The Minister for Maritime Affairs, Mr Kourublis, has the floor for ten minutes, with tolerance for the ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u151	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the country is under certain restrictions. However, the effort we need to do is to find ways in which we face critical problems linked to development and the existence of this place. Because I hear many times easy characterizations about skilled and incompetent, I will start by saying that at the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy, we have started an important attempt in 2015 to bring about a situation of disaster and a course that led to a huge deadlock. The first area, then, is maritime education. Greece's shipping played an important role in allowing the country over the years since the establishment of the Greek state to have significant resources from the shipping sector. So what did the SYRIZA - ANEL Government receive, this 'incapable' government? Twelve academies, in which, ladies and gentlemen, from the two hundred eighty professors, you were abrogated overnight with the two positions. The feeding of these children, mainly from the most popular layers, was abolished, and you abolished it. I would also like to talk to you about the equipment of these schools, with regard to the previous programme 2007-2013. I ask Members of Parliament who are from the regions in which there are such schools to tell us: How did the money for school equipment go? This was the picture received by this 'incompetent' government. What did we do? We restored a new reality. Two hundred and ninety-sixteen recruitments of teachers, to serve and upgrade schools. It is an area where Greece can channel a significant part of its unemployment, that is to say in places such as those of the officers on modern ships, which have quite different quality characteristics. We restored feeding, ladies and gentlemen. This is what this 'incompetent' government has done in the field of feedingstuffs. We have also incorporated into all regional programmes - you can ask your regional managers - money for school equipment, because we want, on the basis of the analysis there is, that over the next ten years world shipping will need a hundred and fifty thousand officers, to claim a significant share in this area. Ladies and gentlemen, we must go to the port area. On one night you abolished three and a half thousand places in the port area. From the vacancies that had arisen these years from the retired, despite the economic difficulty, we have now managed to staff the Port Authority with five hundred two executives. If one went, and the parliamentarians of the regions, especially the border areas, in the Aegean islands, knew that half the seats were empty and, in those that were covered, half the seats were seconded to Athens. So ask us a question from some of the regional parliamentarians to tell us whether there is a detached from the port unit at the border. We have secured the border benefit to all these people who have a great deal of weight, and we have, ladies and gentlemen, been able to meet the needs of the port with the necessary equipment on various means and, above all, on vessels. The result of the reorientation and exploitation of non-discriminatory competences is the result that you see daily in the fight against smuggling. Because we have truly served with merit and transparency all those areas of peak, which can really contribute effectively and decisively to the fight against smuggling, and that is why you see these results. As it is important for cooperation with the European Coast Guard, which is consistent with the Greek Port Authority to be able to help people who were at risk of drowning. Over a hundred and fifty thousand people were saved by the port intervention. Boatboat shipping. We supported the Greek seagoing shipping, which is currently 50% of the European Union's transport force and is in the first place in the world. We have supported the problems that had arisen with the European Committee on Competition, because we believe that shipping, shipping and shipping are two institutions and two bodies which can really contribute to the development of the country. We have moved on, ladies and gentlemen, to the development of the port industry. We have ensured the rights of workers as part of the privatisation of Piraeus and Thessaloniki, and all the conditions are already created, in order to move forward with investment in both ports. Piraeus, ladies and gentlemen, three - four years ago was in the ninety-fourth place in the ports worldwide, and today it is in the thirty-eighth. The effort we are making is in the next two years to have at least the 20th place. Two hundred and fifty shipping companies have settled in the last three years in Piraeus and we already have, for 2017, a 17.3% increase in the exchange rate resulting from shipping. After Brexit, we relied on the transfer of activities from the major P&I Clubs and restored the link between the Ministry of Shipping and the "LLOYD'S" London, where it had to go to Greek Shipping Minister, the first shipping minister, ladies and gentlemen, twenty-seven, please, years. We have challenged and claimed the establishment by IMO in Greece of a branch of the University of Shipping, which operates within the framework of the IMO in Sweden, and we started the process of connecting the Ministry and the maritime schools with all the university centres and the technological institutes of the country. Because in this way we will really be able to help upgrade the training of young people who choose to go to this sector. Ladies and gentlemen, we are implementing a very important programme concerning the equipment of the Port Authority and the Ministry, because we want the Ministry to become a real headquarters that will draw up and unfold policies within the framework of the 'Blue Development'. What, then, did the 'incompetent' government, ladies and gentlemen, receive from the coastline? The money spent by the Greek people on the so-called “big lines” were serving the shipowners involved in the fishing in the Aegean Sea. So, what's happened these years? A complete, radical change. And all the MPs of the Anti-Population, the Aegean and the Ionian are aware that for the first time large ships have gone to small islands, such as Psaras, such as the Onousses. He told me, ladies and gentlemen, the day before yesterday, when I visited the Onousses, the mayor said: "When I was young, I asked my father, when I saw the vamp pass without stopping at the Onousses, why he wouldn't stop the vamp here. And my father told me this was a summer night dream. Now I go to my father's grave and say to him, “Father, the vafori came to the Onousses.” We also created the new school in Oinousses, because we need to support these regions. May I tell you about the connection for the first time - was it a request for years - of the northern Aegean with Alexandroupolis and Samothrace or for Patras with Ithaca and dozens of such cases, which really upgrade the relationship and communication of our islands with the mainland and with each other? That is why you see that all the island operators recognize this qualitative difference that has arisen. Ladies and gentlemen, we voted the day before yesterday and ended in the House, an extremely important institutional framework, which responds to critical, time-consuming and heated problems in the area. It is a modern institutional framework, which will be put into practice, because it is perhaps the first piece of legislation that binds the Minister to specific time horizons to implement ministerial decisions and decrees. I have already instructed the services by the end of the year to prepare the ministerial decisions and by the end of January. Through this large institutional framework of about thirty-six articles, issues relating to loose ends have been resolved since the establishment of the Greek state, such as: Firstly, the restoration of arbitrary outstandings at ports, the consequence of which was that no programmes could be implemented, even though in many ports there was an economic possibility. Secondly, the possibility of setting up a coordinating body for the participation of users in ports or the coordinating body between air navigation and coastships, so that there is genuinely a link between all these air arrivals and the deportation of ships, is combined, which has been going on for many years. Thirdly, there should be the possibility for small islands, under the five thousand inhabitants: if there is no coastline interest, they should be able to create contracts themselves in order to solve the problems of fishing that concern them. There will therefore be dozens of provisions which will actually create a new environment in the field of shipping, but also in the field of the port industry, in order to tackle all these very critical and important problems. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Island Policy has drafted a draft proposal, which took account of all the regions, of the twenty-three regions, the outermost regions of Europe, and we have activated and mobilised all these regions. These days there is a cooperation with the French Minister for the Region of France, to force the Commission and finally the policy of territorial cohesion and the restriction of the exclusion of islands to have flesh and bone. For many times the European Union has spoken about measures that it had to take in favour of the island regions, but all of this has remained a letter. So we started a coordinated effort with other countries too, triggering other countries. We ensured at the Valletta Summit the unanimous proposal of all the ministers to take action. We will activate all our MEPs, but also foreigners, who are linked to island countries, so that we can really press the Commission and ensure a particular, concrete programme in order to limit the phenomena of the exclusion that the islands live in not only Greece but throughout Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, political and economic stability slowly and firmly creates the attempt to get the country out of this tragic fate that has kept it from policies which, unfortunately, have brought it to this point. It is not the time to discuss this at this time because Greece has arrived in this situation. The question at the moment is how Greece will come out of this situation. Everyone in Europe today recognises the effort that is being made so that the country can actually come out of this enormous difficulty, which is stumbling it up and torturing it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u152	Minister, let me inform you that you're in 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u153	I'm closing, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u154	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u155	I therefore believe that, with the cooperation of everyone and the measure that must exist in both the speech and the conduct of all of us, we will find the common places. There are common places between us. Because I believe that everyone here - everyone in their own way - is anxious to get the country out of this dead end. So let us all contribute, ladies and gentlemen, to this effort. Greece deserves it, our children deserve it. After the experiences we have all experienced and the mistakes we have all made, let us go on a road like this, which will lead the country out of this crisis. Then there will be time for the political race - after two years - and there everyone will table their proposal. The Greek people don't eat hay. That's what I think. Some believe that when the people vote for us, they are wise and, when they do not vote for us, they eat hay. I heard it really - and it surprises me very much - a Member from this Stepma to say that the Greek people, when they did not vote for those whom my colleague thought, was eating hay. I therefore believe that the time will come for this race, that the people will judge, compare and see how we manage all of us and the former and the present ones and decide. That's the beauty of democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u156	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u157	Mr President, may I have the floor, please?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u158	Mr. Loverdo, why are you asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u159	As far as I am concerned, the Rules of Procedure are right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u160	Is it an intercept? Is it personal?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u161	Not personal. It's political.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u162	By the way.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u163	I have the right, and as the Minister's speech, to react.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u164	I'll give you a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u165	Thank you. Look, Minister, those who have excelled the division and division of the Greek people, you have no right today to speak of unity. Those who divide and continue to divide, a few words about unity. Now, with regard to what you have just said insultingly about past ministers, I would like to restore order, Mr President, by saying only two things. Every minister does something, someone doesn't do and every new man has to do something from what isn't done. This is the course of a country that is serious. Those who discover gaps behind them and all the future to be deleted over their days are elsewhere, not for the Greek Parliament. In this regard, I mention two examples. The Minister said he received a mess with the Aegean coasting and the Ionian Sea. I would like to remind him - because he was here - of the SYRIZA MP Calager - I do not know if she has been re-elected, I am told that she has - which has given congratulations to the previous government to resolve a problem concerning her island. I would also like to say to him that he received a problem open to Kythira and delivered it to us in the summer that was unresolved by the Minister. Finally, as far as matters relating to his schools of competence are concerned, let us say that he has found them and all renovated through a work that has been done for many years. As for him and his incursion, I have one thing to say to him: he will not be judged in London, where he goes. He was judged in the Saronic.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u166	Minister, I would like the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u167	Minister, you have the floor for a minute, but not to continue the dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u168	Mr President, I think that, when we are in this Chamber, it is important to have a measure. As far as Saronics is concerned, I had an accident in this story, but Saronic, colleague, surrendered better than he was. I challenge you to bring any scientist you want to say something different. If you want me to tell you about Saronic, you will have to tell me what is still happening with the waste water flowing from the U.S.A. over the years in Saronic - unprocessed industrial - and what you had done, what happens with the Kifissus bed in the summer, which accumulates millions of tons of water that collects all the germs in the world, what happens with the arsenic that has still left of the fertilisers and a series of other situations that unfortunately have not been dealt with. I would particularly like you to tell me what is going on with the shipwrecks, because I did not want to mention it, Mr President. On my own command, after twenty-two years the polluter pays the law, without paying the Greek State a euro, the ship was lifted. Tell me what got up so far all these years, to see what I've done. Now, about what my colleague said, I don't know. I know what the district officials in the Aegean are saying today and what is happening in the Aegean Sea, if the coastline in the Aegean is actually upgraded. As far as London is concerned, you shouldn't be talking about London. You should ask the people associated with the seagoing shipping to tell you what Greece was doing in London and what Greece has claimed from London. I told you. Make a little patience until February, when you make the decisions from the P&I Clubs, to see what will have happened, whether there have been entertainment trips or something else. As far as the division is concerned, and I close, Mr President, each of us, Mr Loverdos, has a history and is judged by the Greek people. So let the elections come and then you and I will be judged.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u169	Thank you very much. Mr Anastasios Pratsolis from SYRIZA has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating the budget today, as every year at this time, with one difference, though. This year's budget is the third surplus budget submitted by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government and the last one tabled under the programme, signalling the country's exit from a long period of macroeconomic adjustment programmes, while entering a new period of economic stability. The Greek economy, for the first time after ten years of recession and stagnation and after seven years of memorialization, is stabilised and introduced into a growth orbit. This is also apparent from the latest analyses and studies of both EUROSTAT and the International Monetary Fund, but also from other important households. It is certain that the country after the ten-year recession is currently exhausted. There are many ten years of sacrifice and pain for the Greeks. With the policies of the previous governments, namely the New Democracy and PASOK, 25% of the country's GDP has disappeared, more than two and a half million people under the poverty line, household incomes have been reduced by 50%, wages on employees and pensioners have increased by up to eight times and unemployment has risen to unprecedented levels. There was also a deinvestment by "friendly" governments of the order of 67%. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] All this is a national and social breakdown of our country. Who is responsible for all this? Of course, it is not a paradox, as you are interested in saying, but a reality that you have created. We are constantly listening in here, but also in the committees, to positions and programmes that you have to overcome the crisis. Why, did you not apply them, New Democracy and PASOK, when you ruled for forty years and let the country fall on the rocks? And why would you expect our people to believe you now? When will you finally take responsibility for doing your self-criticism for all the things that the country suffered because of these policies? Coming now into the budget for the year 2018, there is an economic growth rate of about 2.5% and a primary surplus of 3.82% of GDP. There is also provision for an increase in investment of 11.4% compared with 2017, while public investment remains at the same level as in 2017, at EUR 6.7 billion. Unemployment is expected to decline further in 2018 to 18.4% from 19.9% expected to close in 2017. For example, according to the latest analysis of the "ERGANI", the payroll balance is positive and is shaped to twenty-eight thousand two hundred and thirty new jobs, making it the highest ten-month performance since 2011. Of course, if we take account of the significant decline in unemployment over the last three years by seven percentage points, we understand that there have been enough in this area. We are not celebrating, however, because unemployment is still a knife in the body of our society. The amount of FPI expenditure for 2018 is projected to be EUR 6,77 billion. This expenditure is allocated to EUR 5,75 billion for projects co-financed by European Union funds and EUR 1 billion for projects to be financed exclusively from national resources. From the budget that we are debating today, the political point of the SYRIZA - ANEL government is once again expressed. Following the significant overrun of the target of 1.75% of GDP for the primary surplus of 2017, it has been possible to distribute social dividends to the citizens of the lowest incomes. According to the budget, the total number of members, the beneficiary households, is about three million four hundred and seventy-two thousand, i.e. 32% of the country's population. It forms part of a social justice framework, takes into account both income and assets criteria and is indicative of the political perception, strategy and priorities set by the government. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the area of local government is concerned, I think I am well aware of why I still belong organically to it, because I hear and read insurmountable things about the reduction of subsidies, the reduction of the CAP and many others - and, of course, all those who say this with what local government would take on the basis of Law 3852/2010, known as the 'Callikrates' - I would like to point out the following: In the last three years there has been no reduction in grants for local government. And that should be stressed very well, so that some people can understand it. On the contrary, between 2010 and 2014 the CFP decreased by about 60% and the CTA disappeared. It seems clear from the budget that so far we have increased, instead of reducing, 5.34%. In addition, a special grant of approximately EUR 39 million is provided to cover the payroll costs of the re-establishment of the Municipal Police and the cleaning staff of the school units for the school year 2018-2019. Recently, the Minister for the Interior and the Minister for Development announced a specific infrastructure programme of EUR 2 billion for the next five years for flooding, water, rural roads, project machinery, etc. It is also worth mentioning here: The increase in the Public Investment Programme this year was at 700 million, while in 2018 it will be 1 billion and in 2019 it will reach 1.5 billion euros. There will be exceptional financial assistance to eighty-five island and mountain municipalities with 20 million euros for 2017, which will continue in 2018, in order to cover operating costs or investment activities and projects. The programme to cover the late payments of the ATTs to third parties to EUR 326,000, with the demands of two hundred and thirty-seven OTAs and of legal persons, with a total grant of EUR 245,000,000 and a absorption - up to now - of approximately 174,000,000 euros. The framework of the FXIA programme for the repayment of municipality obligations arising from judicial decisions and payment orders that have become final, a budget of EUR 95 000 000, with the satisfaction of ninety-eight requests totalling around 57 000, with payments up to now of around EUR 25 000 000. Local government continues to be strengthened. The invitation to tender for eight thousand eight hundred forty-five permanent posts in the municipality's rewarding services is already in progress. This is the situation, ladies and gentlemen, in the field of local government, despite the efforts made by some to distort this reality. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the government has been working intensively and hard...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u171	Put a perfect one, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u172	I shall conclude, Mr President. The government is working intensively and hard to get the country into a period of full normality and full reconstruction. The completion of the third evaluation is just a matter of time. It is now enough the candy of the delays for the evaluations and how well we were in 2014, when recently Mr Shoeble said that, out of the sixteen quarterly evaluations planned, only five were completed and that is why the programme was derailed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u173	Please, Mr. Colleague, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u174	I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u175	When did you finish?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u176	Greece, ladies and gentlemen, is turning a page. Turns a page seeking a clean exit on the markets, without a new memorandum, without other prerequisites and above all without a credit line, aiming for a better tomorrow for everyone and not for the few. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u177	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the "ELEIGERIOS VENIZELOS", fifty-five students and students and five their teachers from the 1st High School of Ierapetra. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Shahinides has the floor since the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u178	Thank you, Mr President. Another budget where the numbers prosper and regrettably the Greek people, like all the previous ones, are unhappy, as are all the next as long as you in the government benches. The 2018 budget is expected to bring about 2,1 billion euros to the state funds, which will come from taxes, of which around 813 million euros will cover newly emerging tax measures. It looks forward to a primary surplus of about 3.8% of gross national product. If we want to translate it into a rate of economic growth, approximately 2.5%. The overrun of the Memorandum for the year 2018 is estimated at about 587 million, i.e. translated to 0.32% of the Gross National Product. In this pragmatic and clearly material direction, therefore, the 2018 budget generally provides for an increase in state revenue, which is estimated at 54.2 billion, compared with the EUR 52.1 billion this year, and in particular the tax revenues it budgeted at EUR 48.1 billion, compared with the EUR 47.2 billion this year. In other words, the expected increase in revenue is the sum of EUR 951 million. The forecasts of the new budget are expected, but, as we have said, they are forecasts and budgets. What does that mean? That, unfortunately, the measures imposed by the troika against today's coexistence, because you know very well that they will not work, that the target will not be achieved, that you put in so much more and more of your own. Still, you're falling out. So, imagine how difficult things are for you that, since you're budgeted on the basis of what the Troikas impose on you, you even fall out with the extra measures imposed on the Greek people. This year will be increased by EUR 478 million compared with 2017, direct taxes of EUR 456 million on personal income taxes increased by EUR 79 million, increased by EUR 473 million on indirect taxes and expected an increase in VAT revenues from 2017 by EUR 78 million, as well as an increase in consumption of EUR 439 million against 2017. Total? Approximately EUR 2.1 billion. With regard to the new tax measures, however, these are complementary financial measures for 2018, which were voted on together with the two-year package 2019-2020, and for which, unfortunately, they are not provided for by the current convergence at all, which is something that coexists with deafening silence. Therefore, these measures, which will be implemented for the first time in 2018, are: the 50% reduction in the heating allowance, as mentioned by other previous speakers, the non-tariff adjustment of pensions with an expected rate of return of EUR 328 million, the change in the method of calculating contributions to freelance professionals, which will include revenues with an expected amount of EUR 59 million and EUR 124 million for 2019. It is also the abolition of the 50% exemption for alcoholic beverages in the Dodecanese, with an anticipated rate of return of 13 million euros, a hotel tax - rented rooms, with an anticipated rate of return of 74 million, a tax on Airbnb with an expected rate of return of 48 million euros, a 10% reduction on medical expenditure tax, a abolition of 1-1-2018 of the withholding tax of 1.5%, with an expected rate of return of 68 million euros, and the list is not over. The total is about 813 million euros. In addition to the above measures, however, a special reference should be made to the CSCE, which started dismantling in 2016 and will be completely repealed in 2019. Only for 2018 will this expenditure be further reduced by EUR 240 million. Here I can get you one example: a retired person who was receiving a pension of EUR 462,26 and EUR 230, with a 50% reduction in the CSCE lost EUR 1,380 a year. With a gift you gave him, the thirteenth wage, of the order of 400 euros, lost 980 euros. In 2019, which will lose all over the CSCE, it will lose 1,380 euros. Therefore, because of the money lost with the ESS, pensioners are forced to take additional measures and cut down first-time items. I have heard from many previous speakers about social care. What social care? Ten days ago, I received a letter from a complainant, who sent me all the papers, which he was referring to as being the beneficiary of EUR 200 a month of the solidarity allowance, cut him 120 euros and only received 80 euros. Do you know why? Because this man presented an income of EUR 850 per year from crops. In other words, 120 euros have been cut off for twelve, a total of 1,440 euros a year, minus the 850 euros he had from cultivation, from nowhere he lost 600 euros. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. You also celebrated the capital controls that you gave more money than 420 euros a week. I didn't hear anyone mention it to you. Time has fifty-two weeks, for 420 euros, totals 21,840 euros a year. Now you give the month 1,800 euros and say that people get more money from ATMs, 12 times is 21,600. What are you doing? You're making fun of the Greek people. You cut them 240 euros and celebrate that people now have access to taking more money. In all of this - and I conclude, it is my last proposal, Mr President - there is the proposal from the People's League. We have repeatedly said that the only solution is the immediate unilateral termination of the memorandum, and in no case the renegotiation, prolongation and restructuring, as the deletion of illegal and burdensome debt is the only way out for the Greek economy. So in the Memorandum in which the 2018 budget is going, we say no. On the contrary, we say yes to national production, because as Panagiotis Kodilis says: '1% industrial development is worth a hundred times more'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, too. Mr. Marios Katsis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u180	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate which has taken place but which, as yet, is indicative of how political forces are placed in today's shaped reality. It is good, then, before all, to see what this reality is, where the national economy is today and how its position in society is reflected. The national economy, therefore, after the biggest recession that occurred in peacetime, after the fall of unemployment to 28% and after a troubled period of absolute deinvestment, which is evidently similar to the period of New Democracy and PASOK, is returning to normality. The evidence is undeniable. The national economy has now been developed for three consecutive quarters with the rate of 1.3% of GDP in the third quarter of 2017 and we are waiting for the fourth quarter. Unemployment, according to ELSTAT's latest figures, has fallen to 20.5% and is constantly falling. It's high, we don't celebrate, but it's reduced. The cost of borrowing, as reflected in the ten-year bond spread, has fallen below 4.5% and is at the lowest levels that were pre-crisis in 2009. Greece officially came out of the excessive deficit procedure last September. Let me remind you that we had entered the excessive deficit procedure in 2009, while we have already made two exits to the markets, with very positive results, thus preparing our country's clear exit from the programme next summer. We already have the short-term debt measures that have improved its viability, while in 2018 we expect the identification of medium-term measures and the final settlement after the end of the memorandum linking the country's financial needs to growth. That's what we're talking about. Because it turns out in practice that deficit, debt and growth are the macro-economic environment and it is understood that they have been on the right track. It turns out from what I said. Does it have an impact on society, though? I would say that in the lower social strata, yes, and I will explain below. Of course, the middle and especially the upper layers have become quite compressed, but they are the ones that in times of development are being favoured first. Let's not forget that. At the same time, with the great effort to revive the Greek economy, there is also the same important task of alleviating and supporting the most vulnerable social groups, where the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK threw all the burdens during the crisis, leading them to the margin. Be sure, ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition, as much as you are trying to convince us that you were born today, that citizens know very well and who brought the crisis and who decided to lay the burden on the weak, protecting themselves and their strong friends, but who are those who are trying to get the country out of comitology and with society upright. Large groups of the population find it difficult to cope with today's difficult reality. That's who we're trying to support. A series of initiatives taken over the entire previous period prove it. I will list some of them, because it is worth seeing that our fellow citizens have seen what the position of counter-population has been on these initiatives. Starting: Free access to medical care for uninsured people and the strengthening of public health with personnel and equipment. These are the same hospitals that the New Democracy wanted to close or merge. These are the same hospitals where the then Minister for Health and now Vice-President of the New Democracy planned to raise the ticket to 25 euros, while also having uninsured people already pay for it. Secondly, we have kept our commitment to debt severance as far as possible for those affected by the crisis that you have so much misled. And I'm explaining. The regulation of the hundreds of instalments, the extra-judicial compromise for businesses, the change in the code of conduct of banks to allow them to make - and they do - settlement of red loans even with write-offs, the regulation of citizens' debts in municipal fees by municipal fees, the thirty-six instalments to PPC and EPCP without a deposit, and, finally, the imminent regulation of the hundred twenty-dollars to EVC for contributions owed is a tangible relief, ladies and gentlemen, and have helped a lot of people who have fallen victim to the crisis, but also of your choices. At the time that we stretched out a methodical protection net, you swept us through the means that you are supported and nailed us in the troika. Two years in a row we have moved on to provide a social dividend from over-performance of the economy. Instead of a cutter, you almost begged for it, we had a donor for two consecutive years. The dividends remind me that they came from the lowest surpluses we managed to reduce by the renegotiation of 2015, but also from the 711 million announced by the Independent Public Income Authority as revenue from those who made their money tax free and now showed them, because we had crossed them on CDs with the lists they hid in the drawer. Fourthly, we reduced the insurance contributions for 77% of the professions - 77%, we did not say about all the professions - who returned to the insurance system and thus combined with the reduction of the unemployment of six units - we managed to have an insurance system that travelled towards its viability. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like your tolerance a little. We proceeded to free movement to the unemployed in public urban transport in Athens and Thessaloniki. What was the position of counterpopulation? The systemic media, which have been ironic and accused of this initiative as populist and subsidisation, have been captured, listen to the battlings. For forged tickets and circuits that acted in urban transport, no reason. I could go on with other examples, which clearly demonstrates who, like television licences, supports tax evasion through offshore, overcompensated and endless projects that we are completing, but there are so many that do not fit into a speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u181	Yes, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u182	Ladies and gentlemen, we are aware of the difficulties facing large social groups and that problems are not solved by words, but by hard work. This work is reflected in this budget. The individual issues relating to the budget of each Ministry have already been explained in detail by the ministers, but also by other colleagues, not to go into detail. There is a printing of very positive elements, such as the increase in the welfare budget from 789 million in 2015 to 1,83 billion in 2018 or the increase in funding for research from the regular budget from 60 million in 2015 to more than double to 127 million in 2018. In conclusion, I would like to say that all the greatest fear of counterpopulation begins and is founded on them. And who's that? That this will be the government that will get Greece out of the memoranda, that it is the government that will make the debt viable and plan just the next day. Despite the difficulties and retreats we have had to make, people still hope for us, so that the next day after the end of the memorial to reconstruct the country productively and proceed to targeted tax reliefs. That is why I call on you to vote in favour of the budget and to take a step forward in the next day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u183	Mr Fortsakis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u184	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the third budget of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL in an extremely well-informed economic environment. They've just announced numbers, which really create horror. We have 130 billion today due to taxes and insurance funds. Just in November, it was announced that we have exceeded 100 billion for taxes. We are, that is, 50% above what the Samara government left in 2014. This alone shows that the entire government account of the economic environment falls into the void. One million seizures are currently in the public, and twenty-three thousand were only the new seizures in the last month. These figures were stormy and within this terrible environment is the debate of today's budget to add new heavy measures and new tough austerity. Unfortunately, the picture that we see in this budget instead of improving is getting worse with time. First of all, I will focus on a number of general remarks and then I will talk more about the social aspects of the budget. General remarks. Firstly, the 2018 budget provides for new measures of about EUR 1.9 billion. I don't mention them in detail. Many colleagues have already said so. There is a dominance of tax increases and subsidies cuts for another year. Secondly, in 2018 indirect taxes reign. And we all know that indirect taxes primarily affect the economically weaker ones. So, as we read in the tax revenue composition, 56.9%, i.e. almost 57%, is indirect taxes. They are even raised in 2017 by EUR 473 million. Because of this, the ratio of indirect taxes to direct taxes remains high at 1.32. Thirdly, there is a growth of 2.5% for 2018. Is that the objective possible? Let's look at the answer to last year's targets. We started with a forecast of 2.7% and this forecast is constantly getting close. The government itself now predicted a fall in growth to 1.6% recently in 2017. The third quarter of this year was less than desirable. It should already be realised that a high rate of growth with lasting new measures and a decline in investment activity is not possible. Fourthly, a primary surplus of 3.8% is foreseen compared with a Memorandum of Understanding of 3.5%. In other words, the target of around EUR 590 million is exceeded. We are therefore heading for the third year in an accounting and certainly unsustainable surplus, a so-called surplus based on the constant increase in taxes and the violent decline in public spending. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from the 2000-2006 programming period. I would now like to focus on his social aspect, because we are talking about a budget of hard social analgesia, which occurs in all its specific sizes. I note, among other things, that expenditure on insurance, care, social protection is falling by about 7.6%. This is a EUR 1.6 billion reduction. In the social budget, the State grant is reduced by EUR 638 million, resulting in its total revenue being reduced compared to 2017. The following reductions are being made. Firstly, subsidies are being reduced to hospitals. Grants for citizens' care are being reduced. There is a 28.6% reduction, i.e. about EUR 370 million less than in 2017. Secondly, grants to EEAS are being reduced. There is a 6.1% reduction, i.e. 214 million less than in 2017. Thirdly, grants to the ECA and other insurance institutions are being reduced. There is a 0.4% reduction, i.e. about 60 million less than in 2017. We must also emphasise the increase in income from insurance contributions and the reduction in total pension expenditure. For the new measures of 1.9 billion, I particularly repeat what has a very serious negative social impact. Firstly, new cuts in CSR amounting to EUR 234 million. That is how hundreds of forty thousand low pensioners are being affected and we know that we are heading towards total abolition. Secondly, abolishing the benefits of the beneficiaries of the social solidarity allowance. The allowance of unprotected children, unemployment benefits for new entrants in the labour market, poverty and natural disasters are now a past. Thirdly, a reduction in the planned amount for the grant of a heating allowance to half, or EUR 47 million. Fourthly, the abolition of the 10% tax deduction for medical expenses, where these exceed a total of 5% of the annual individual income. This abolition affects some two million taxpayers, mainly patients and elderly people. Fifthly, abolishing the special VAT system on thirty-two islands, resulting in a significant increase in the cost of living of their inhabitants. The measure marks social patients who are disproportionately affected by indirect taxes. I said it before. The 2018 budget brings cuts and new failures. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It's a precursor of new bad news. We represent a very different financial mix: the immediate reduction of tax rates and the consolidation of stability in our tax system, the removal of obstacles to encourage investment, the strengthening of liquidity in the market and the restoration of balance in the banking system, the modernisation of public administration, so that we can finally vote on budgets that do not bring darkness, such as today's but hope at the heart of our fellow citizens. It is unnecessary to say that, of course, we will vote against the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, take a look at the timer. It's not for ornamental reasons. I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, sixty-four foreign authority officials in Greece. The House welcomes them. Welcome! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs. Canelley has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u186	Ladies and gentlemen, when one comes up, especially today, in Stepa, one must feel a little bit of emotion, because we are discussing the budget, the third of the SYRIZA - ANEL coexistence. "One of the thief, two of the thief, three, and his bad day," says a Greek proverb. I say 'with special emotion', because I had to start with what country I am and what country I am talking about, without someone telling me that we are using a communist word for opportunism, for that reason too. Your welcome to the country of openportunity! We welcome you to the country of opportunity. I say this in the absence of the basics, apart from Mr Juliarakis, the Ministers, such as Mr Papadimitriou and Mr Tsakalotos. All of these people are in New York and two hours ago they knocked the bell on the New York Stock Exchange. There's also the version of another name Marxist. I hope my fellow Members will know her. The country's geopolitical strategy does not need such designations and is included in the budget in the context of defence expenditure. If anyone starts to wonder what country they are in terms of budgets, there is no need to attend the procedures of the capital link and the conferences and dedication of the country as "Thessaloniki Exhibition" in the United States, on request and begging heavy investment requests for the country. American investments are naval investments and they are military in nature and they involve the country directly! - the possibility and obligation to intervene in imperialist warfare operations planned on paper. There is no need for anyone like me to tell you unless you have read what he said, unleashing from the heavy historical talks of Erdogan's visit here, Mr. Kammenos, because you cannot talk about defence expenditure without 'Cammenometer', nor even about the country's geopolitical policy, which is translated as 'Americanmeter' or 'nattometer'. He writes, in the greatest exercise conducted by NATO and the country, in Assiros, Thessaloniki: "Greek because of its geopolitical position and the wider situation in the southern NATO sector assumes a great responsibility for the alliance. We are located in a Mediterranean region bordering the Middle East, North Africa, the Black Sea and particularly because of terrorism, we see that the role of our country and because of the Souda base, but also because of the trained personnel of the Hellenic Armed Forces, is being upgraded to an allied level." This is the investment, so that these promised and determined by the former and current government of the Armed Forces officers on the basis of the special salary after the decision of the Council of State have not been given. They're still waiting. Our defence budget does not include the concept of 'people' and the concept of'strategic'. It doesn't include them. Because if it included them, the Ministry of National Defence should have been significantly embarrassed. Those who are talking here about the budget in the part of the Ministry of National Defence and the service of geopolitical exchanges of interests had to take a look at the complaints of fans and officers in the 239 Messologist Evzone Constitution, where a Youth Training Centre operates. In this place, in this budget of upcoming development, liberalisation, opening up the market, fantasies, reinforced by officers, were protesting for worms in the food. They ate worms, the spectators. They do not have enough money for quality, human food for the militant fanatics, those that we will send to them with NGOs, students, doctors without borders, organisations which do not control anything, political personnel such as the one who took part in the scenario that took place in Assyro, in a fantastic Arlad country, where they have to intervene to maintain order in dissenting Prime Minister and President, internally using everything. We are talking about a geopolitical situation on the basis of the directives they take from the United States. He did not dare to open a second base in the country after Souda, and now the Americans are exploiting and investing and opening Alexandroupolis for Natali reasons. The debate on the improvement of Araxos remains under the special arms regime. And in the language of the Armed Forces and especially the Air Force, the special weapons are no more than nuclear. We are preparing for this too. We are preparing to talk about sovereign rights in a country that has invited NATO, found NATO in the Aegean Sea, patrols, we are members of NATO, like Turkey and the refugee flows are still coming here and we are discussing whether it will be the subject of negotiation from alpha to omega, from Losanne or Kosani. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We are not honest enough to admit that serving naval interests is not a service of patriotic interests. When you have your soldiers eating worms, when you lose all the trained workforce, the incredible know-how, the effort and the money spent by the Greek people on NSAs and NSAs are where they are today, one cannot speak of independent, sovereign, national policy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, you do not have to ring the bell, especially me all the time. You can stop.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u187	It's not the stock market bell.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u188	I ask your tolerance for thirty seconds to close my sentence. So we cannot ignore an independent policy that serves naval arrogance interests by putting the country in an increasingly deeper, more dangerous way. We don't even know if you're going to the Karpath. We could get out of here. We know Erdogan was seen, because the Americans told us we should see him. We know that following a visit to the United States, our attitude to the Americans has changed. How did our attitude change? You continue to praise it as "Genucasians" of capitalism, "Genitsa" of imperialism with a left mark. And when such generosity arises to serve other interests with the pretext of dealing with poverty and the country being promised for at least 60 years, with a basic pension of EUR 384 guaranteed by that state, which will also apply to special wages and to the officers of the Armed Forces, and it will be the only guarantee, the humbleness of the humble ones offered by that state, one wonders what the benefit is. So we will have hungry, savage fanatics at the service of law and order, i.e. the imposition of imperialist interests with the benefit of navy and Americans. Otherwise, we will negotiate with allies within NATO the update of the Annan plan, so that we can also end up in a terrible solution to the Cyprus problem by supporting it left-handedly as a good form of capitalism, someone who declares left-hand or communist can be allowed to close the New York Stock Exchange. Of course, we are voting against.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u189	Eventually the timer makes the speakers nervous, so they don't see it. Mr. Carras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u190	Thank you, Mr President. This year's budget debate is set out because the measures that will be in place next year, the following year and throughout the five-year medium-term budgetary strategy programme are already in legislation. We therefore know who will suffer the sacrifices, who will find it difficult in his life, even if the brief one is announced, the clear exit from the memorials, which of course will take the form of a typical action, as the surveillance is maintained after the summer of 2018, and furthermore we know how the Greek economy will move. There is, however, a major issue, which has arisen in the last few days and suffering a large part of the Greek population. And I am thinking of the rapid development of housing loans, business and government announcements. It sounds like there's protection of first residence. To what extent and in what cases has it not cleared. First of all, we must be realistic, because if we do not have a realistic view, we cannot deal with the problems that are coming. You will allow me the valuation very soon. Katseli Law: Only for those who have been legally appealed and only for those who have been vindicated. Out-of-court mechanism: The worst law that could exist. And why am I saying that? It only covers lenders, especially banks, while leaving uncovered a large share of small and medium-sized enterprises, who have not had a single use in the last three years, which has been a profitable and also has legislative gaps. I give you immediately, ladies and gentlemen, the example of the guarantors. There's been a lot of talk in the last few days. If the extrajudicial mechanism is accepted for the first time, the liquid assets - and this must be heard - it is also the assets of the guarantor. Let's go to the next: if the request for the extrajudicial mechanism is rejected, there is no protection, because it cannot be subject to any law on the insolvency of households, because it has the commercial and bankruptcy status. They should have already been legislated to protect them. I'll go down. The budget comes in and says, "You know, there is a public contribution envelope, which will cover part of the debts of housing loans to those who are unable to pay the entire instalment to be set by the court." Is that enough? I have many reservations, ladies and gentlemen, for this reason: I want to go back a little bit further. I want to go to the period of 2015, when the third loan contract was signed. There was a prediction there, which we have all forgotten. What was that prediction? Banks were given the right to transfer their tax obligations for five years initially and after 20 years in 2017, the known deferred tax. What claims? For debt write-offs of bank debtors under the provisions of the Katseli Act, Treasurys and any other law which results in ‘deleting or agreeing to regulate debts and debtors’. In 2015, in fact, there was a valuation. This is expressly said by No 4465/17. The amount of the limitation on the loans was estimated. I mean, we're talking about seismic devices, if you'd like. However, this is legislated, it is passed without being implemented. Unfortunately, I must also express my dissatisfaction with the government at this point. Why? Because I have asked a timely question and I say: 'Give me those sums by category. How many banks are going to delete for housing, how many for consumer and business loans?’ Why did I ask for that? To ask, respectively, for these debts to be cancelled. Do you know which answer I received? The Ministry of Economy and Development, which is what it says, tells me - by making fun of me obviously - that it is unreserved. The Ministry of Finance has never dealt with the matter. I asked a question on this issue - not a question anymore, but a question - to ask the government to answer. Unfortunately, I did not happen in this case of grace to hear, to be informed. There seems to be a lot of things going on in secret, which we should not know. But let's go to the current situation. There's a proposal I saw yesterday. It is the proposal of the Democratic Alliance and of the River. It's good intentions. In my opinion, however, it is not sufficient. It is not enough why the suspension of auctions, as took place between 2010 and 2014, while it was an extremely good measure at that time, would presuppose economic growth. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In other words, to suspend the auction, to give the person concerned the opportunity - I shall be brief, Mr President, if you have the kindness - to pay after the country is developed. Well, the country did not develop and so we have to make another decision anymore. What is the decision that I have already put forward, and I have tabled it? Since the government is talking about electronic auctions, it wants to avoid attending the court, it wants to avoid the events that have occurred. However, there should be a legislated earlier stage, which should be as follows: to be a preliminary issue of the possibility of electronic auctioning if it is possible and to what extent to pay the debtor. And if there are social criteria, we can create a platform, depending on the social dividend, depending on what technology allows, set objective criteria, and those who are weak and cannot, not take them out. Let them stay, because those who have houses can contribute to the world can contribute to the economy. Those who deprive them will be a pariah of Greek society, and the country will not be able to continue its course, because it will have created a hopeless order. I therefore call on the Government, even from the budget debate, to bring in legislation which introduces the electronic system of objective criteria for limiting or deleting debts and then move on with the good of the auctions to those who can. Thank you, Mr President, especially for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u191	Thank you, too. Mr. Dimitriadis, from SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u192	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this budget is the third in a row tabled by our Government. It comes to establish what began with the first and second, namely stability, credibility, the positive sign in our development policy. It comes to heal, with a convincing result, the consequences of the restrictive policies and subordination implemented after 2010. The restrictive policy mix implemented in previous budgets led the country to a downturn in reduced domestic demand, increasing unemployment and reduced available income. The well-known aftermath is mainly the loss of GDP, the loss of 65% of the volume of investment between 2008 and 2014, the average annual decline in national domestic demand by 6.2%, the decrease in household gross nominal disposable income by 7.3% in two memoranda, the huge unemployment rate reached in 2013, according to ELSTAT's figures, at 27.5%, while at the same time the average wage was reduced by around 17%. The 2018 budget is therefore presented in the context of a budget adjustment, as reflected in the Financial Facility Convention with institutions, and it is a budget serving our strategy for exiting the crisis, serving four main objectives: budgetary stability, which I believe we have achieved, a stable financial system, structural changes in the economy and a strong social policy. The contract for the year that passed us provided for a primary surplus of 1.75%, when the second memorandum provided for a primary surplus of 4.5%. The fact is that we were able to negotiate and prevented additional measures of around EUR 5.5 billion, only for 2017. We really aren't the same. Since 2015, we have committed ourselves to a primary surplus of 0.25% and finally the economy even then - and the difficult year - recorded a surplus of 0.7%. The 2016 budget was closed with a surplus of more than 3%, and therefore we had a over-performance of objectives, thereby sharing a social dividend of about EUR 500 million a year and a year ago. The 2017 budget shall be closed again with a surplus of more than 3%. In short, we are close to the target we expect for 2018. We have recently given a social dividend of about EUR 1.5 billion. Those objectives have therefore been exceeded mainly by the primary surplus, which provide the necessary financial space for the implementation of development and social protection policies. The over-performance of the surplus I have just mentioned is due to three main points, which we want to see applied and which we expect will also apply to the 2018 budget. First of all, the realistic budget structure that we always have in agreement with the institutions as well as last year. The second is that we manage the budget honestly and usefully, with self-renunciation and also with inspiration in its difficult turnings. The third is that we have adopted targeted policies that escape simple management and aim to transform the Greek economy, even if the margins are narrow from budgetary adjustment. The surpluses we achieve and are over 3%, are the ones that give us the assurance that in 2018 we will also take the path of the virtuous circles of the economy, in contrast to the previous governments of the New Democracy and PASOK, which in all budgets were dramatically out and which usually needed second and third opportunities to correct what was agreed with the institutions within the year. Only a stable goal were they also serving, cuts in workers' incomes and the sale of public wealth. The worst thing in the case was that this was in years when the agreed surpluses were very small, of the order of 1% and 1.5%. Consider what would happen if we were to come to the present years, when the surpluses agreed at the time predicted surpluses of 4.5%. Let's not forget that, and then, they gave a social dividend without agreeing to the institutions and then redeeming it to the budget that they had already agreed. But what made me a great impression, ladies and gentlemen, is that in the debate on the distribution of the social dividend about a month and a half ago - for this one and a half billion which is a very important sum, we made targeted choices and shared it in the world, which we believe is of direct and great need, which is the world of unemployment and labour, particularly and secondly, the Public Power Corporation, which is at a turning point and we considered it necessary to strengthen it - nothing has been said about any development prospects, particularly from the parties that are cutting them off, this perspective is their crucial political point. Unfortunately, time is short, so I just want to mention something that is important and I think I should mention it. We have taken important initiatives on the regional, development perspective of the country and on the regional dimension of the country's economic development programmes. Proof of this effort and of our commitment that we are both true and consistent, is the fact that at the Development Conference of Western Macedonia we promised by mouth of the Prime Minister of the country, Alexis Tsipras, that we will apply the special reduced tariff for the inhabitants of natural Macedonia to electricity and we are able to do this on the basis of this budget. This gives the dimension of this regional development policy, but on the contrary it is a commitment, it is a prospect that we embrace with self-determination and adopt it, because we will ultimately serve a project that brings our country to the year of exit from the memoranda and surveillance. It is the year that will validate the exit from the crisis, because we are aiming at the credibility that already restores investors' confidence in 2018, the year - a milestone for the development of the Greek economy. We will emerge from the crisis with society upright, with optimism and positive energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u193	Thank you. Mr. Rizulis from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, in the speeches of the Vice-Presidents we hear at times some 'rules', which I do not know what they are going to hit. I have heard a fellow Member say that we have destroyed the primary sector, referring rather to agricultural production, which in the 2000s began to fall and in 2014 reached 3.8% to 4% of GDP. However, since 2015, it has been growing, even at a small rate, but with the aim of bringing it to 7% in 2020-2021, through a targeted programme, using all the tools it has. We are now discussing the third budget of this government. To the great regret and sadness of counterpopulation - what counterpopulation? The catastrophe, rocks and caravans that are sinking - in the medium term with the application of the other two budgets and then the third one, closes the third assessment, and since 2018 we have been going to the debate on the regulation of the Greek debt that starts in 2018. The country has successfully come to the markets and will be followed up, with a possible aim now of closing the 2018 programme. Our difference from you and the catastrophic samples of your governance is that the financial adjustment - which is obviously not an easy thing, because there are terrible difficulties and injustices - is trying to be as mild and at the same time socially fair as possible. Here, too, about the debt - because I mentioned it before - that all your arguments are that in 2012 you agreed with the lenders, if any, if necessary. "If necessary" of course you did "do not need" and "do not need" also cast a baptism that becomes sustainable and you are struggling for sustainability certificates and success story. The third assessment was closed without measures. Anti-government was destroying every day of the current governance, and in reality we use whatever resources can be made available for social benefits, in the context of the financial data we have. I shall give an example of this: the increase in family allowances - and indeed with income criteria - which has recently been made so that the weakest ones can be favoured. We are critical of those who have come out of the economic environment in which the country fell with the memoranda, who saw it and saw it through the reduction of social costs, the privatization of health, insurance and education. The greatest confrontation the opposition has ever made is that we are against reforms. But what is not specified and should be clarified is that the term ‘reform’ is not a neutral term. It is a sign and a sign it has to do with the side of society and the economy. For example, when you - which you fortunately did not - wanted to sell the public property, because it was a positive reform, as you were baptising it at the time, and our own agreement to make use of the property is counter-reform? You have confined - another'major' reform - the rights of workers, assuming that, in order to bring about economic recovery, acquired working rights must be eliminated. When you were dismantling the labour market, that was reform. We, for example, in the context where we can do something, have agreed to reintroduce workers' privileges to compensation, incentives to convert workers with a block in relation to a dependent labour, to the opposite of policies. What's ours? Is it counter-reform? The truth is that you are asking for growth with workers on the margin and with society on the margin, while we are asking and trying to have a fair growth with society on the forefront and with a fair redistribution of wealth. In this context, of course, there are other 'Koreas'. I would like the JRC to explain to us how the government will regulate the issue of strikes - from 30 to 50 plus 1 - with one specific example of how the right to strike is being circumvented. Show that this way of primary, secondary or tertiary unions have no right to decide on strike. Show us that. Not like the heavy and unhealthy, you were calling on strikes in the municipalities, and we were extending the heavy and unhealthy. I said it last year and last year that we don't always make it the way we want. In this process of negotiating and trying to raise Greek society and economy under the regime of the committee and the memoranda, we are calling for growth with society at the forefront, with a fair redistribution of wealth. Funnyness of the claims of counterpopulation is that in a crisis that it has caused, with a commission that it has caused and called on the claim that it is the only one that can manage it from now on. And how do they justify this in the Opposition? They say several times that we have learned from our mistakes and will not make the same mistakes. And that time you learned from your mistakes when it was? The period SYRIZA ruled? Because you certainly didn't know anything before. So you have had time to review the time we govern, regardless of whether you are asking for the first quarter of today's government elections. Obviously, it shocked you when you heard of the 80 billion euro party in health, the fragmentation of hundreds of millions of euros in CEDEFOP and all that the Greek people hear in the Committee of Inquiry and not just. Of course, if there wasn't the current government, you might as well not be looking for what happened over there. Why the question is, who would you be looking for? Obviously, the country needs reforms, not at the expense of workers, such as the optimisation of administration, the acceleration of justice, the uprooting of the client state, the upgrading of education and health, always at a social level and not north of the market in general. Because we believe in the social state from our side. The budget will be implemented and the agreement will be closed in August. The country will then go ahead, not without difficulty, but with society standing. And that will be achieved by the left-wing government, who has been commanded not only to take the country out of the crisis, but to do so with care and protection for the weakest, created by the formerly destructive Sophocles and others. I shall end with this, Mr President, and I apologise for the time. Mr. Dendias said in his introduction, and I would like to mention it, that the country needs investment and development. With what plan until the crisis comes, did you protect the country with a productive model that can withstand the crisis, but also with what production model did you plan? You only had one, a very good bankruptcy plan, not for everyone, but for the majority of the Greek people, and to the state-owned people you showed the way out. On the other hand, we are planning a reconstruction program targeted, including all Greek and Greek women, in terms of justice. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u195	Thank you too, Mr. Risouli. Mr Tasos Petropoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u196	Thank you, Mr President. Watching the debate yesterday, I do not know how to identify differences in the intentions of the Officerial Representation, in relation to the two previous years for the 2015 and 2016 budget. It's like nothing's changed. There is a insistence on its commitment not to make a positive picture for the country, although for the first time since 2009, international rating houses, investors, international institutions, all institutions say that the country is on a positive path, not only are prospects for the consolidation of budgets, but also for the development process, investment. It's like you're upsetting this situation. It is obvious that you do not want this spirit of optimism, which is now justified in terms of the climate that allows investors to come to Greece and in terms of the prospects for resolving the problems that the country has. You are talking about auctions, for example, for the first place, when for 2008 - and let me take this year for comparison - we had about fifty thousand auctions and in 2016 just six thousand auctions, having tenfold the red loans in the meantime. With tenfold red loans we had six thousand auctions in 2016 and not first house, fifty thousand in 2008. So, what do you want to do to say at last that this government means respecting its political commitments not only to low incomes and weaker people, but also to the prospect that this country has after so many years of fragile economy and broken lives? Because you want to say something about the EKRF that will actually be provided at the height of 35 euros from 2018, you are avoiding all other benefits granted and avoiding, above all, that since 2010, you have legislated with your vote, I mean, the secondment of the EKRF from the pension. By Law No.3863, Article 39 was separated as a preliminary provision by the ECHR. Because, you had done this then and in 2015 as a result of this separation, then because the CSCE was not protected and you decided and voted - of course with the pressure of the situation, and we, it is well known - the issue of cuts gradually as it has evolved. In the meantime, however, the recalculation, I say this for all those who were subject to the CSR category, gives more than EUR 40 and they are now having a pension right gradually in the future as long as the Gross National Product is increased. We have about EUR 25 from the benefit they have from free medical treatment, calculated on average. We have the relevant benefits in proportion to the social dividend and all the other parameters that our own policy has for the support of the weaker. I mean family allowances, the rental allowance that is about 50 euros for every family that has no private residence. But anyway, the bill was made. I was talking from the Step last year about achieving a good outcome to the 2017 EVKA. I was saying, as has been recorded in the Minutes, that instead of 850 million deficits, it is certain that it will be estimated at about 550 million, instead of 743 million debts that were to you apart from more than 300 million debts in the EEA in 2014. And we have a result, which creates certainty for the future, that there will no longer be cuts in pension benefits, because pension expenditure will also be avoided and concealed by the Greek people that from the first memorandum the country has committed itself that it will not exceed 16.2% of GDP. This year she goes to 16% and she will never exceed 16% with a downward trend in the years to come. It is obvious and well-established - and it will also result from the comprehensive recognition study that we will fully produce in the next few days - that we really have a strong social security system in the country without cutbacks. Of course, all these results have come from the improvement in the economy, but also from the reorganization which has already been gradually achieved - and more quickly it will be achieved - at the workplace. I listened yesterday to Mr Tindemans talking about sharing more work with part-time workers. The Minister, Mrs Ahtsoglou, has said so many times, but you do not mean to understand it. You want to say the same thing. I reproduce from the table "HLIOS" that full-time in 2013 amounted to 35% of the work. You can take that. [[At this point the Deputy Minister, Mr Anastasios Petropoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So, ladies and gentlemen, I will wait for you another place in the next few days and the next few days on the budget. Because, finally, what comes out of the reports and the Chief of Officer Response and many of you, is the invocation of Constantine Karamanlis. I mean, you're going back forty years to claim something good you've done for the country. Unfortunately, you are going even further backwards with the trend that prevails in a large part of the New Democracy and beyond the years of the ERA. Let us say the truth to talk about the substance, using this dialogue, about the country's budget. Let's go to the real achievements that we can have and confirm them. We are therefore calling on you, in the next few days, to change your position on these matters and to talk about the substance of the real, genuine figures we have presented and the budget. The EBRD surpluses will continue next year - I am making the same provision as they were last year - and they will be much more than the budget we have put forward. And this will be an image that will accompany better indicators and growth and GDP and tax evasion and undeclared work. We will talk about it next year on better terms and we will again prove that what we are saying will be confirmed and not what you say.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u197	Thank you. Mr Georgios Vlach from New Democracy now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u198	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the state budget is the mirror of the economy. It includes elements and estimates: Data that identify our lives for the following year and estimates for our lives in the coming years. The government that recommends the budget, sees in the mirror the clearest, most optimistic picture and tries to convince parties and society that what it sees is the real picture. Unfortunately, however, for the government, the people live in it every day and therefore have an opinion. What does the government see? It sees growth, investment, sees a decline in unemployment, sees health, education, public administration to be at the best of times in the past, celebrates social dividends, triumphs over the budget targets. What do citizens see? They see accuracy, they live a policy of austerity and cutbacks. They see the overrun of the primary surplus targets leading to a slowdown in the real economy. They see the relationship between indirect and direct taxes from 1.18% to launch, I would say, at 1.33% in 2017 at the expense of people with low incomes. They see no investments being made, i.e. they do not influencing new funds into the economy. They see the Public Investment Programme being seriously delayed. They see investment falling at 4.3% from an initial projection of 9.1%. They see the country remain absent from the programme of quantitative relaxation. They see liquidity from the NSRF 2014-2020 as well as liquidity from the development law two and a half years after it was voted to be virtually non-existent. They see the competitiveness of the economy retreat. They see growth rate limited to 1.6% from an initial estimate of 2.7%. They see no job creation and part-time work every day become the norm in industrial relations. They see the overdue debts of individuals growing. They see public debts growing by EUR 1.1 billion in recent months to launch a total of over EUR 6 billion. They see a hundred and forty thousand of our fellow citizens losing the CSCE. They see the benefits of third-party and multi-family families being reduced. They see our islanders for the first time to pay increased VAT. They see the heating allowance being reduced to half for those regions with extreme weather. They see real estate owners to be charged both by adjusting prices due to objective values and by tax on goodwill on sales. They see about two million fellow citizens losing the discount on medical expenses. They see free professionals increasing their insurance contributions. They see, in addition to the measures of 2,7 billion in 2017, new additional measures amounting to 1,9 billion in the 2018 budget. And if, ladies and gentlemen, we sum up the measures that have already been implemented, but also those which have been legislated for 2019-2020, the total sum of the current government's measures will exceed EUR 14 billion. A result of twenty-seven new taxes and twenty-new pension cuts and social benefits. The citizens see cuts every month and forever, while dividends, ladies and gentlemen, were once. Really, and what do our fellow citizens not see in their daily lives? Of course I'm talking about those who want to see. It is easy, then, to agree that what we live does not lead anywhere, it has no prospect, it is a great deadlock. We believe that our fellow citizens, all of us, must react to this deadlock. Despite difficulties, despite disappointment, we must seek hope in our lives. The New Democracy proposes a different hierarchy of priorities. It emphasises tax reductions and priority investment, growth, increased production. In the face of today's left policy, cuts and impoverishment of our lives, Central Right proposes strengthening the productive forces of the country. Those who speak of agreed policies who cannot change make a big mistake. Creditors, in the face of a policy of reform that will lead to increased productivity, cannot be opposed. Finally, it is the only way to get their money back. There was no agreement with lenders to reducing VAT on catering, reducing excise duty on heating oil, reducing the special solidarity levy, reducing property tax, reducing insurance contributions. But it has been done - and I conclude, Mr President - because the country has achieved its objectives and this success has given it the right to decide on the improvement of everyday life. A dividend has been paid from real over-performance of the economy and not from an internal posture of payments. Public debts to private individuals decreased by strengthening the liquidity of the real economy. All this shows that there is another way to believe him, as long as we work with plan and objectives. That's why we're asking for a change in the political scene now, it'd be better yesterday. The proposal to change the political scene for opposition over time was the request for elections. As long as the government tries the deadlock that society lives to present as a success, we will be calling for elections and no doubt that elections will eventually take place much sooner than the government thinks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u199	Mr Dimitrios Konstantopoulos has the floor from the Democratic Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u200	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the government's account of growth, of the reinforcement of low-wage and pensioners, of the fight against unemployment and of the exit from the memorandums by tabling this budget is not implemented. However, it is a fact. There is no positive sign! And the government's strategy is to create overcrowding in the economy. That is to say, the word 'where the numbers prosper, people are unhappy'! In the success of this strategy, the government sacrifices the recovery of the national economy. How? Elevating targets. And then what? Applying harsh austerity. Let me remind you that for 2018, targets are a primary surplus of 3.8% of GDP and a growth rate of 2.5%. So what? Goals ambitious, unapplicable. Ladies and gentlemen, the pursuit of excessive surpluses leads to a cruel austerity through increased taxation, a freezing of public investment and a cut in costs. And here of course a question arises: What does this strategy serve, ladies and gentlemen? Firstly, the government buys political time to stay in power and at the same time seeks how to get through the crisis. Secondly, it proposes, as its central policy, to reduce inequalities in this respect and to take care of the weaker through social dividends. This, gentlemen, is called an allowance policy. Gentlemen of the Government, in your policy there is no left ideological project, there is no worthwhile criterion. It is your choice to apply policies that dissolve the middle class. Let me remind ELSTAT according to the years 2015-2017, the loss of potential income reached 36 billion, and in 2018 it will be well above 55 billion. At the same time, however, the country has lost expected GDP by 19.1 billion. So the country has been caught in the recession and you have a responsibility. Do not forget that during the SYRIZA governance period - ANEL we had the third memorandum: EUR 12.5 billion and the fourth memorandum: EUR 4 billion. However, the logic since 2018 is the same. Taxes: EUR 951 million Additional taxes of which EUR 478 are direct taxes and EUR 473 are indirect taxes. This distribution, ladies and gentlemen, does not involve social sensitivity. Direct taxes are fairer, since they depend on income. But you, for one more year, increase indirect taxes. What's the result? You are burdening low incomes. Expenditure: Total expenditure is projected to be reduced by 916 million compared to the medium-term objective. The greater reduction concerns expenditure on insurance, care and social protection, which is lower by 1.6 billion. Reduced, too, are the costs of critical ministries, namely the Ministry of Infrastructure by 129 million euros and rural development by 225 million euros. However, there is no operational plan for the country's productive reconstruction in order to enable the country to come out of the crisis, to produce wealth, because the loans have been brought to an end. Insurance Funds: Report that there will be a surplus in the insurance funds in 2018 of EUR 859 million. You didn't tell us how this surplus would be exploited. Public investment! At the same levels as in 2017, public investment expenditure for 2018, i.e. 6.75 billion, will remain at the same level as in 2017, representing 3.65% of the forecast GDP. Privatisations: In 2018 you expect revenues of 2,74 billion, i.e. 1,66 billion more than in 2017. But you're not telling us how to do this. Public debt: Every negotiation is in the air. And that's why? You did not allow the country to make use of the 2012 Eurogroup agreement, the agreement that was meant to bring the debt closer to 124% of GDP and 2020 significantly below 110% of GDP. Ladies and gentlemen, the government claims that we are approaching the exit from the memos. Personally, I wish. I hope, however, that it is not a utopia that will lead to frustration and greater despair in society. I would stress that this would have been achieved if the proposal of our President, Mrs Fofi Gennamas, had been accepted for a government of national understanding by this House two years ago. Mr President, the government has canceled every possibility of a recovery in the country. Who can forget the commitment to grant national wealth to the supranational for ninety-nine years? Who can question that the new year's measures will immerse the economy more? Remind me: The cut to forty thousand low pensioners in 2018 and their abolition in 2019. The increase in contributions to a million four hundred thousand free professionals, farmers and scientists. The abolition of reduced VAT on the islands. The accommodation tax on hotels and rented rooms. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you go without vision for the country. We see no progress in the productive reconstruction plan, no progress in the job creation plan. All we see is taxes, cutbacks, austerity and unemployment. In desperation there are also thousands of householders who lose their homes, the labors of life. The electronic auctions are nipple and loop in the neck of the households. I have repeatedly stressed from this Step, that the borrowers must finally get ahead of the foreign funds. Take an example from our Cypriot brothers. We tabled yesterday a proposal for a law on the protection of first residence and support measures for the islands. We believe you will accept them. Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue to support with our proposals, positions and interventions the only policy to get out of the crisis, as we tabled it with the 'Greek Plan'. With this strategy we will lead the country to recovery, we will bring again to Greece the four hundred and forty-five thousand Greeks who left abroad, and we will bring hope back to every house. The Change Movement comes as a overturning force and as a power of responsibility. Finally, we are voting against this budget that increases austerity and, of course, condemns growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u201	Thank you, too. Mrs Zoe Lebanese has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u202	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, today we are called upon to vote on another difficult budget, not so much because of the forecasts it contains, but mainly because of what we would like to see contained and not permitted by the Treaties. Hope and faith of the vast majority of the Greek people who support the government, is that this budget should be the last to submit to these conditions. Trust in the government is based on the fact that it manages through difficulties, constraints, retreats, to shape the financial data in a way that gives rise to greater social justice. The government's commitment to social justice, to dealing with the real and huge social problems, has proved, both by distributing social dividends and by a large number of interventions that reshape and establish, to a large extent, the social state at the outset. The vast majority of Greek society recognises this effort, despite the fact that it is still difficult to deal with, yet face a series of problems and want more rapid improvement of everyday life. The only people who do not understand what is really going on are neoliberal worshippers and numbers, which, as evidenced by the 2018 budget debate, do not read or intentionally overlook the correlation between each registered expenditure. The increase, for example, in public wage costs is mainly due to the coverage of serious gaps in sectors such as health and the increase in insurance contributions paid by the Greek State as an employer. They deliberately overlook that the increase in public insurance contributions strengthens the insurance system, making it sustainable, ensures the necessary resources for the uninterrupted payment of pensions, ensures that current workers receive a pension when they complete their working life. The 2018 budget, as well as the corresponding 2017 budget, which has been implemented and paid a significant surplus, reflect the government's clear commitment to respond to social needs. It covers gaps in real society, without derogating budgetary objectives, using socially responsible resources. It is important to stress that the government is making use of available resources - as limited as they are today - and is investing in the resolution of all public structures and the restoration of the social state. Public health develops new structures, such as primary care, and hospitals are strengthened with young doctors and nurses. The institutions of the whole day and the'school meals' were generally expanded. It gives the social income of solidarity from 2017 and for the second year the "social dividend" to much more. Part of the surplus is planned to avoid increases in PPC's accounts for all residents and all enterprises. Opposition probably disagrees with all this and considers "crime" the disposal of dividends to the suffering society. We see a budget that meets real and pressing needs. Social policy expenditure is increasing, fundamental expenditure on real society needs to be increased. It turns out in practice that the problem is not the existence of the social state, but the priorities placed by previous governments in their stress to serve specific groups of friends and relatives. It has been demonstrated in practice in the last days that public affairs managers have been in a position to lend themselves, to live above their capabilities and are solely responsible for causing such an extent of lending to the Greek state and Greek citizens. It turns out in practice that the current government is firmly geared to the fight against tax evasion and achieves an increase in tax revenue without bringing up the already high tax rates. However, thanks to the fight against tax evasion, tax reductions will be achieved in the years to come, in view of the real needs of taxpayers and the real potential. You see, this government has convinced the citizens that it wants and can gradually improve things and does not engage in exhaustion of any means of tax evasion within and outside Greece. This budget is the last of the memoranda. But it is not the last difficult budget. The difficulties have not been over, nor will we be relieved tomorrow of the pathogens created by neoliberalists for decades. For you, the tax avoidance may be cheeky and the social state paradox, which is forced to pay the elites you represent. For society, however, it is paradoxical to pay you and the elites to "hand her finger", you who cannot or do not want to repay the loans you illegally took for yourself, your businesses and your parties. Because these are days like this, I will close with a quote from the poet Tasos Levadite from his poem "This star is for all of us." "To shout it out loud that no dreams in the world will ever fall asleep again, since every moment people will find us in the calm bread, in the righteous hands, in the eternal hope." Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u203	So do we. Mr. Giorgos Koumoutsakos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u204	Ladies and gentlemen, I urge you to take a look at the Minutes of last year's budget debate. You will see two things: firstly, that everything we said last year was fully confirmed and, secondly, that, unfortunately, this year is much worse. This is the third budget of SYRIZA - ANEL and is the third certificate of political lies issued by this government. You've taken everything to everyone and tax everyone and everything. Your budget is a budget of equal austerity, a budget of EUR 1.9 billion, a pension cut, social benefits. It is an anti-development budget, which does not promote reforms, does not repay debts to the private sector, it does not attract investment, it does not make public investment, it does not tackle tax evasion. It is the budget of the three 'f': taxes, taxes and taxes. And it's not enough time to list them all. But that is not what this is about, ladies and gentlemen. You know the taxes you've imposed. You charge them, the Greeks pay them. Keep in this budget also a timeboat for each social group: For the low pensioners: One hundred and forty thousand low pensioners will see in 2018 a cut in the CSR, which is effectively and definitively abolished for everyone at the end of 2019. For freelance professionals, increasing their insurance contributions. For property owners, the adjustment of the objective values of real estate with 15% gains tax and tax on occasional and short-term leases. For the uniforms, new cuts in their payroll. For employees and pensioners, the reduction resulting from the abolition of the 1.5% tax deduction, which is made in the monthly withholding tax. For three-tenths and multi-tenths, the cut-off of the multi-text allowance. For taxpayers with medical expenses, the abolition of the 10% deduction for medical expenses. For households without or with a less heating allowance, it shall be reduced by 50%. For the inhabitants of thirty two islands of the north-eastern Aegean, the increase in VAT rates. For hotel owners, the imposition of a fee for hotel accommodation. For seafarers, the extension for a year of the contribution to shipping. The truth is, you didn't leave anyone complaining. You taxed them all. If that's not a poverty budget, what is it? If it's not a social analgesia budget, what is it? You are evangelizing the exit from the memorials and judgment to the ultimate account. But the record is a fairy tale. And don't think of blaming us for mistrust. The fact that the account is a fairy tale proves when someone looks at what they have been waiting for since 2019 for our fellow citizens if your policy is implemented. Since 2019, not only since 2018. Gentlemen of government, remember how you started and saw how you ended up. You said you'd be shaking memoirs and folding hopes, crushing them. No one today is better than in 2014. Everybody's worse. But all this - and this is where very serious things start - is not just incompetent. It is also a conscious political choice, with political deceit. Finally, it is a dark political plan, a project that was revealed when Mr Tsakalotos and the present Mr Juliarakis cynically confessed that they broke fiscally and consciously in the middle class, a project that wants the citizens to be dependent on your power with the once-in-a-half distribution of dividends, aid for the poverty you have caused. First you make the citizens poor and then you make the philanthropists! However, this complete inspiration and philosophy of political dependence of the poor will not let you complete it, because we want citizens free and therefore decent: to work, to create, to live without power. And we'll do it! Ladies and gentlemen, I would very much like to find in the budget something that would even justify optimism for the Greeks. But I honestly tell you that I cannot do this, because this budget is another episode on the Greeks' poverty ring. Director and writer is your government. But it will be the last task in the series, because that will be your last budget. The only hope is that in a few months all this will look like a bad nightmare. 2018 will be a year of political change and that is why it will be the end of the decline. With our government it will be the beginning of the restoration of the economic, institutional, social and moral dignity of every Greek. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u205	Mr. Kouzilos has the floor since the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u206	Thank you very much, Mr President. Another Memorandum of Understanding, which is now coming for 2018, which - as we all say - is taxes on everything. Get out and say that in 2019 we'll get out of the memoirs. The issue is this: Remind you of a statement by the head of Eurogroup, who said in September 2017 that Greece and then the memorandums will be in supervision. That's what you have to say to the Greek people. And the New Democracy must say that it will be the next government at some point. We'll be in custody! And the memorials to end, what ends is funding. Of course, you don't tell the Greek people, the Greek people won't hear it and then the problems will start again. And the head of Eurogroup continues in his interview at the time - September 2017 - and says that "The Greek economy must enter an upward and stable way to be economically independent". In order to achieve economic independence and stability, however, we should have growth. In one budget, however, where the only thing that dominates is taxes, growth is nowhere to be seen. I will begin to give you some examples. Development is not when the two largest ports of the country are sold, such as PPA and PLO. And here we want a response from the Treasury, because parliamentary control does not respond. What have we received from the sale of the PPA? What have we seized so far? We sold PPA, the biggest port in the country. Can you tell us what we have received indirectly and directly? And, of course, we want you to tell us whether the jobs have been increased, because what we have seen so far - and it will happen - in Thessaloniki is that everyone is asking to leave, to transfer. Also, development is not - you have now invented another terminology - concession of activities for ports. You will grant the profitable sectors - sectors of each port. That's what you're saying. There are communications from the Ministry of Shipping. So, as far as Corfu is concerned, you will grant the cruise, the profitable part of it. And what's she gonna do? For the port of Corfu, for example, what will be left? Will this only be the part of the coastline and all the little ones? And how will the Port Corfu Agency survive? That's not growth. For other ports, however, such as the ones of Rhodes, Heraklion and Chania, what you say is: "We will give them to individuals. We're not selling them anymore. We make a concession." And all this - through the TDID - you say it 'development'. Another area of development for our country, years now, is the shipbuilding repair industry. Even there is no prediction, there is nothing. They're all screwed up! And the Ministry of Shipping comes out and makes a statement that "New breath will give the number a tank that will repair and operate COSCO". With a tank, there's no growth. They must come boats for growth and jobs and for a state to be able to make revenues. There are three large shipyards on this piece. We have Scaramaga, who has been in a very serious problem for years. At the moment - as the Minister said - we are on a one-way road. There's no other solution for Scaramaga. We also have Neorio, which will necessarily be sold to Elefsina at the time. All workers in the shipbuilding industry are, in fact, at the limit of survival. That is all you call it 'development' and you talk about a budget, which will help very much. In order to be able to understand now and what else you have done, with a bill that you brought in 2017, there was code 3437: "Various Inspection Account". With the new regime you applied after the shipwreck of "Agia ZONI 2", this account will be made? Is it going to happen? Will he be credited? Is there going to be revenue from that? Because there was revenue. With all that you're doing now and all the particular tricks you've made up, there's no revenue. You are talking about the great "City" of Piraeus. Piraeus to acquire "City", as the Minister said before, we need not only to get in touch with the P&I Club but need three key factors: stability, infrastructure, maritime justice. Since there is none of these three, 'City' in Piraeus, we are not going to see. And we're talking about thousands of jobs. IOBE once said that we can have at least two hundred thousand more jobs from shipping in Piraeus. To conclude - and I thank Mr President - Mr New Democracy, PASOK, SYRIZA, ANEL what you have done so far is to follow the memorandum faithfully and with no prospect. There's no prospect. The Greek is now beginning to be a ghost of himself. Development and perspective do not exist and we will be under supervision for too many years. Of course, Golden Dawn is here. We will be present, because one is our motto: we want our country back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u207	Mr. Papaliu from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u208	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, 2018 will be the year that will mark the country's exit from a long period of budgetary adjustment programmes and its entry into a period of economic upturn. The 2018 budget will be the last budget for the memoranda, after the country has been scheduled to leave from August 2018. In the following years, the necessary financial space has been ensured to strengthen and implement development actions and to extend social policy interventions. In order to achieve that objective, all necessary steps had to be taken in 2017, such as completing the second assessment and the apparent completion of the third assessment, testing outlets on the markets and then, in 2018, following the restructuring of the public debt, in order to ensure its viability. Despite the persistent catastrophe of Antipolistism and the orchid of psalmology and propaganda by the systemic media ownership of strong economic agents, the economy in recent times has been in a recovery orbit, creating prospects for this recovery to accelerate in the years to come and transform into growth. All the economic indicators record the constant upward dynamics of the Greek economy, which is gradually being strengthened. As a result of this budgetary progress in September 2017, the European Commission decided a year earlier to exit Greece from the excessive deficit procedure. The main objective of the Government is for 2018 to complete the programme and end the aspiring comitology and as far as possible the austerity policy. And in this context, priorities are to meet the country's financial needs, to improve the structure of the economy and to further ensure and strengthen social cohesion. These will be implemented by targeted tax reductions, which will take advantage of the financial area, which is already creating and creating further economic growth, by combating tax evasion and tax evasion, by means of public investment, by attracting private investment, by active employment policies and by social costs. Apart from healing the social wounds left by the Memorandums - with measures such as addressing poverty, granting the social solidarity allowance, restructuring - increasing family allowances - and building the foundations for the Memorandum Greece, economic and social conditions must be created to overcome not only the memoranda and the crisis but also the bankrupt model of the past that led the country to it. The new model promoted is the socially just productive reconstruction based on the utilization of the country's comparative advantages, which need to be transformed into specific policies, development peaks in all sectors of the economy and also combined. To create sustainable development conditions of importance is the role of structural reforms, which are based on three pillars: The pillar of financial stability, in which the top issue to be solved is that of non-performing red loans, on the pillar of strengthening competitiveness, investment and development, including the development of an integrated development strategy, the development of innovative financial instruments, the new framework of ex-judicial conciliation and business licensing, and a series of interventions to strengthen the Greek region. On the pillar of the regaining of work and its emergence to as much as possible an equal factor as possible with the company. The working conditions of the labour market require a gradual reversal of the situation so that it returns to fundamentally tolerated normal contexts. The restoration of collective autonomy and collective bargaining, as well as, after the end of the project and the recent n.4488/2017, which solves important issues of daily working life, is an important element. Of course, the policy of tackling unemployment, the reduction of which is important, but not the one we would like to see. In the context of the modernisation of public administration, for which actions have been instituted to enhance the effectiveness of the administrative mechanism, but also of the judiciary, the fight against corruption and the operational autonomy of key institutions. In this context, the development dimension of the budget is reflected in the Public Investment Programme, the national component of which remains at the level of EUR 1 billion, as well as in the absorption of the resources of the NRP which in 2016 and 2017 brought Greece first positions between the Member States of the European Union. In addition, development law reflects the change of direction and direction of programmes and individual actions. It is not limited to the absorption of the funds to be made available, since it is under-utilised, that is to say, the quality of the interventions. In particular, in development law, there is a orientation towards specific critical sectors of the economy, and in particular the production of quality agricultural products combined with their processing, in order to gain added value, agrifood, the provision of quality tourism services. All this is based on research, innovation, extroverty, so that all these interventions have a development mark. They are addressed to small and medium-sized enterprises and not to state-owned entrepreneurs, as has been done so far. I shall make one final comment, Mr President. The rapporteurs and my fellow Members of the anti-Population Committee reiterated this by adopting the media propaganda orchestra. In this context is also the submission and promotion of false news and references that are not presently reproduced by opposition parties, especially from the New Democracy and the PASOK. Obviously this is to disorientate the Greek people from the causes of Greek bankruptcy, from the lists of deposits at paradoxical destinations and from the internal problems of these parties and, ultimately, from the hard neoliberal direction that is the core of the policy of Officerial Response, which means continuing the political austerity and the austerity of the Greek economy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u209	Please complete, Mr. Papaliou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u210	I shall conclude, Mr President. Gentlemen of counter-population, the difference in our policy from yours seems and will appear even further after the end of strict supervision, when our own policy begins to unfold our policy, of course, in the context of the European Union and a country such as ours, which will have just come out of the memoranda. It frightens you and has led you to confusion, the "flash" of the "left parenthesis" and the defiance of one of your narratives after another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u211	Mr. Ioannis Andrianos from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u212	Thank you, Mr President. In the light of what the previous speaker said, I would just like to say that we are not intimidated by what you have said. We are frightened by your policy, as is the economic policy that you are following the Greek people, seeing the CSCE lost, seeing financial burdens and taxes. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the third budget of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, a budget which, like the two previous ones, shows a policy mix which does not solve the existing problems, does not heal the deep wounds of the crisis, does not guarantee the conditions for development and does not give any optimistic prospects to the economy and society. A budget that, like the two previous ones, bears a strong mark of ideology that overturned the positive course of 2014 and led to two unpleasant memorials and lasting austerity. Last year the government celebrated that the policy mix for 2017 concerned 94% new taxes. You said that it was your conscious choice to overtax, to impoverish the middle class and the least privileged. Even the most fanatical supporter of this government has realised that overtaxation is not the solution. Instead, it undermines the prospects for growth and job creation and mainly affects the middle and popular strata, it affects the thousands of low pensioners who lose the CSCE, it affects almost two million Greeks who lose the discount from medical expenses, it affects young people, who cannot find a job that meets their talents and skills and at the same time see the government as a rule of part-time work, which created the 360-euro generation. You see, with the results of your policy this year, it becomes clear that your real objectives were two: on the one hand, to achieve in every way the primary surplus, an unbearable obligation, which you themselves loaded on the backs of the Greek people. To do this, you have dramatically increased taxes, reduced transfers with a clear social footprint, i.e. reducing the support of sensitive social groups - third-texts, multi-texts - you strengthened the image of the state - which requires that when its citizens are required, it does not remember when it owes the citizens the same. On the other hand, there is, of course, the communication trick of the tip. With one hand, that is, you take ten out of the citizens' pockets and you only give one with the other. So, from the Greeks, the possibility of employment in real and well-paid jobs, you obligate them to pay more and more to the state, which you are struggling with special secretariats and new bodies, to make them dependent on the state pocket, which is not enough for the elementary: 1.9 billion euros is the account for 2018 in pension and social allowances measures and an increase in taxes, EUR 14 billion is the increase in public debt, which you were supposed to write off. The evidence exposes you. According to a survey by the Center for Liberal Studies, the Greek average in 2017 worked two hundred out of three hundred and sixty-five days of the year, from January 1st to July 23rd, only to repay the obligations to the State, while due to your policy, Greece has plummeted this year another twenty-seven full positions on its economic freedom, while the largest rise in the world is noted by the countries of our neighborhood, such as Bulgaria, Romania, Albania, Cyprus. With this, then, your absurd logic, the levelling up and the redistribution of poverty and impoverishment, your achievement is that the country is again in the last place of development in the European Union. Greeks and Greek women continue to leave the country looking elsewhere for their destiny. Businesses continue to close and transfer their headquarters and functions to neighbouring countries. The investments are at the forefront, both the private ones, which you are "private with the kidnapper" and the public, as they demonstrate resoundingly the levels of absorption of the NRP and the under-implementation of the public investment programme. You have imposed a night's charge even on tourism, a sector that we must pay particular attention to. Farmers, producers, standardisation, which you should prefer to support, are even more hitting them. These people are fighting for survival on a daily basis, having to face the high cost of production and the increasingly heavier conditions of climate change, such as the strong damage we had in Argolida or the olives that have been hit by the drought, and often the producers do not even make the oil of the year to eat, and indeed for the third year in many regions. So what did you do to support them? In Argolida, there is information and information that ELGA will compensate for citrus fruits affected by quartzosis, which is much smaller - it is about EUR 0,09, minus EUR 0,03 of cutting, it goes to EUR 0,06 - instead of fruit prices, which are almost three times higher. The wine tax, which you are all saying will be abolished, you are still maintaining it, and you have the opposite effect on what you have been waiting for. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would also like, Mr President, to have your tolerance, as was the case with previous colleagues. Thank you very much. In insurance contributions, through taxation, you have effectively deducted their remuneration. You have also left almost EUR 5 million to be lost, a life for winter farmers, to buy fruit and vegetables, which would be free of charge in schools in the country. As far as the education sector is concerned, Mrs Keramos has mentioned in detail the consequences of your policy. For my part, I would like to highlight the major problems in the operation of INEDIABIM which have adverse effects on the functioning of the studies and on the feeding of students. The problems reflect the functioning of the public IEK, which are currently in a state of complete disintegration, as well as the second-time schools and significant shortages in heating oil, in logistics and in continuing gaps in teaching staff, which threaten the educational process, the inability to fully operate the full-day school, which is even more burdensome to families. In addition, the problems encountered by the translations of thousands of students into higher education institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, all this at a single conclusion leads to a conclusion. At the most critical moment for the bold turn that will pull the country out of the crisis, the current government is moving without compass. Its only aim is to catch like - such as the nominal objectives of the memorials and to quarrel in every way in power.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u213	Put a perfect one on it. It's time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u214	I shall conclude, Mr President. Mr President, you said nothing to the previous colleague at 7.48'. I saw you gave nine minutes. Just a second and I'll be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u215	That's misery now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u216	Thank you very much, Mr President. Greece therefore needs growth. The Greeks require jobs, opportunities for preparation and creation, they require justice and efficiency, and this budget once again demonstrates that this government cannot and does not want to meet the needs of the country and the demands of its citizens. That is why the New Democracy is voting against him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u217	Thank you. Mrs Diamanto Manolakou from the JRC has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u218	You are presenting a compassion for all of you by blurring the budget targets. You may vote against or show the effects on poor people's strata, but you cover and support the SYRIZA Government in its policy of serving the needs and demands of business groups. You are exorbiting capitalist barbarism because it is your strategy to serve the needs of capital rather than the people. It is true that the budget shows, it mirrors the new poverty for the people, as it grabs more than two billion more. It is also a bridge to implement the requirements of the third evaluation of the one hundred prerequisites. That's why he's axing social benefits and the CSCE. Electronic auctions in the first house, increasing ENPIA, VAT rates on the Aegean islands, increasing 900m euros direct and indirect taxes, reducing around EUR 700m in state funding in insurance funds, and so on. Anti-Fraud measures to enhance competitiveness and investment. Because there will also be additional tax exemptions and other privileges requested by business groups. That is how surpluses are created. At the same time, move along the lines of the White Paper on the future of the European Union, you are preparing to serve it with a democratic cloak: the commitment to the growth of the European monopolies against the people. The new proposals and plans concern the creation of a joint military intervention force, a joint defence budget, a joint defence action doctrine for the Imperialist wars of the European Union, involving the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. But also the creation of a European Monetary Fund in the patterns of the predator - reactionary IMF - so that deceit is not created - the depth of EMU, the joint Minister for Finance and others. There are new anti-grassroots mechanisms to shield Euro-Union monopolies against their competitors, the USA and China, as well as contrasts and triumphs within the European Union. However, in the name of scenarios for the future of Europe, all the Member States are expressed with compassion, whether or not they are overcompensated, with severe anti-equity measures downwards, with tax exemptions and subsidies for capital and its profitability. In this direction you also have an absolute agreement between you, whether you vote or not for this year's budget. Furthermore, it is essential to point out that, for the recovery of domestic capital, the next day of the memorandum will require difficult decisions and wider consensus on what needs to be done. Everything is subject to this strategy. That's why you want to shrink until you eliminate the strike, the last right that the working class has as a weapon to its exploiters. You are, in essence, also the right to protest, to pay off, to lay off the redundancies, to inhuman working conditions that create crippling and even dead from employers' crimes. You know that your wild policy creates anger, indignation. Afraid that it will turn into a massive, decisive, popular counter-attack for overthrowing and you think that with legal terminology you will block bold rivers. A cemetery silence can't be imposed. You'll also have reactions to the new tax storm and the privatisations in the lignite fields, to the CCCTB, to water and elsewhere. New unemployed - thousands of workers and worsening for others - will be created - since a normal wage will go to the twigs of 400 euros. At the same time, the robbery in the people's household will be increased through increased energy, water, tolls and so on. But also privatization in ten more big ports in the country will worsen the position of the workers. We know from 'COSCO' in Piraeus. Wages of 400 euros, with slave trades and the whip of authoritarianism to resurrect, otherwise it doesn't have a piece. But there are also investors who are "killed" who will first take Alexandroupolis or Thessaloniki and others. It's not only the steep energy competitions, it's also the war plans of imperialists that unfold and you're dived up to the bounces. And that's not good enough. We have also heard the Minister for Maritime Affairs swept away for maritime education, which is intensified by privatization, because the shipowners want it, but authoritarianism and rhyphetology is intensified in the Port Corps, after transfers - the Minister decides now and throws the post-emergency body away. This overall is your fair development, for which you are calling for consensus and cohesion. For our part, what we can promise is that we will not leave you in a green clay. We will not leave your wild policy and we will do everything we can for the uprooting of the people, so that he becomes dominant of the wealth he produces and not beggar. I conclude by saying that the vulgar anti-communist attacks of the Golden Dawn that the JRC is at the limits of legality - you know - we have heard them from the New Democracy and the PASOK, when the workers were on the streets against their memoranda.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u219	Mr. George Nzimanis from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u220	Thank you, Mr President. Referring to the previous one, I do not know who to give the foundations of destruction and zeroing to the New Democracy or the JRC.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u221	To SYRIZA, who destroys the people! He has the gold medal, along with the New Democracy!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u222	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating in plenary the 2018 budget, the third budget drawn up by the SYRIZA - ANEL co-government. It is true that, despite the extremely difficult budgetary and social conditions in which the previous budgets were implemented, we have managed to put the country's public finances in one order, by restoring the credibility of the Greek economy with the fair and mild fiscal adjustment and by creating a strong network of protection of social weaknesses, with the full development of tools such as social income of solidarity, but also with social policy interventions, such as in the critical area of dealing with child poverty. For 2018, the primary surplus is projected to be 3.8% of GDP, which is compatible with the objectives of the Financial Adjustment Programme and provides a significant margin of security. Specifically for 2018, the savings resulting from the successful overview of primary operating expenditure will finance a series of additional actions for social protection. In the years ahead, the economic growth rates provided for in the Medium-term Financial Strategy programme are sufficient to ensure the financial area, in order to widen the interventions to support social protection and to apply reductions in household and corporate tax rates. The 2018 budget therefore serves public finances, catches the targets, creates a surplus of 3.8% and sets growth of 2.5%. So developmental can also be characterised, but it is also redistributive, because it strengthens financially impossible with social solidarity, fairer distribution of family benefits, and tackling child poverty. We are also talking about a budget which has no new measures in the sense that new measures are not being adopted during the year. With regard to defence issues, I would like to mention that in 2018 also the Ministry of National Defence, taking into account the existing financial framework and geopolitical developments in the Southeast Mediterranean basin, is reassessing its actions to achieve the maximum effectiveness of its operational, defence and social work. For the years 2015-2017, the reduction in the operating budget of the Ministry of Finance was 4,91% and stemmed from the rationalisation of expenditure and not from horizontal cuts, as happened in previous years. However, in 2015-2017 it is notable to absorb funds that exceed 94% and prove that, although the money is not enough, the proper management and priority of the programmes is implemented much of the equipment. For example, from 2011 to 2014 absorption was between 24% to 60%, while in 2015 to 2017 absorption exceeds 99%. In the context of this effort to save resources and rationalise the expenditure of the Ministry of Defence for 2018, the General Staff actions and interventions concerning important structural reforms and development initiatives have already been updated and launched, summarised as follows: Realistic hierarchy of all the operational costs of the Ministry of Economy and Development, use of new digital technologies in administrative processes, adaptation of procurement addresses to the National System of Electronic Contracts and to the Central Public Procurement Register of the Ministry of Economy and Development, exploitation of the non-operationally needed military material, extension of the bilingual accounting system, promotion of new plans for the transfer of military personnel with socio-economic criteria, implementation of the new revised forces structure, exploitation of military plants, use of the financial resources of the European Structural and Investment Funds for the implementation of development projects and actions, review of the model of training of managers, initiatives to reduce bureaucracy and review the procurement law. With regard to Western Macedonia, PPC's reduced tariff is announced by the Prime Minister at the Western Macedonia's development conference. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] Ladies and gentlemen, for all the above mentioned, I call on you to vote in favour of the 2018 budget, which is the last Memorandum of Understanding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u223	The next speaker is Mr Athanasios from New Democracy. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u224	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are currently discussing the 2018 budget. As of last year, the budget is accompanied by a splendid statement by the government's MPs and officials on the project that this government has allegedly offered to the Greek economy and on the over-performance of the implementation of the 2017 budget. I am not going to make any reference to your economic policy, because our previous rapporteurs as my responsibility have analysed with arguments that led to your experimentation and amateurism. However, I shall refer to three issues which, for the first two, the islands of our border islands are struggling with, and the third concerns the functioning of the institutions in a rule of law. The first issue is immigration. Ladies and gentlemen, our islands, who have accepted the uncontrolled flows of immigration, are snatching. The tourist movement, in particular, in Lesvos fell sharply. The economy was literally strangled. Crime is on the rise. And all that from your foreign policy, the 'open borders' policy. The islanders, ladies and gentlemen, are neither racists nor perpetrated by xenophobia syndrome and proved this by treating these unfortunate people with love and compassion. However, the issue is humanitarian and other about the salvation of our islands, which have been so discredited with all the known consequences. And that was not enough, they were encouraged to come here from various communities, from the artistic community, from the political community, from the economic community and from the church still visiting our islands, just to make sure that there is no solution. The hypocrisy of Europeans, in particular, our allies, is a proverb. Let me give you an example of these numbers that are proportionally prevalent in all the islands. An immigrant corresponds to nine inhabitants of our islands. Approximately 25% of the residents of the city of Mytilini, because there are the hot spots of Kara Pepey and Moria, but also other structures, right now they are immigrants. And, of course, Mr Mouszalas and other government officials have dealt with the agreement between the European Union and Turkey, in other words, invoking this agreement, and there is no agreement, but it is a mere unsubstantiated and unsubstantiated declaration of goodwill between Turkey and the European Union, as I was given the opportunity of this step to develop another time. What have we achieved with this statement? We have made Turkey an institutional partner, and in fact it proved to be an unreliable partner in terms of the refugee crisis. And I must remind you that if we say that an oral agreement is undercover, because it is unsubstantiated, because no European Union institution has signed this declaration, this agreement was made on 18 March 2016. It followed the law of the Greek state, it was Law No.4375/16 that, on 3 April, later, gives the possibility of dismantling the islands when there is overpopulation, which you have not done so far. In New Democracy, we have drafted a national plan to tackle the refugee crisis. We were given the opportunity to say this to the topical questions another time, I don't have time to develop it now. Its basic structures are, however, the decongestion of the islands, the rapid processing of the identification of refugees and migrants and, of course, effective border control. Our proposals are becoming much more up-to-date today if you have followed yesterday's statements by the President of the European Council, Mr Tusk, but also the positions taken by the countries of the so-called 'Visegrad', namely the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland and Hungary. In his proposal, therefore, Mr Tusk argues that there should be no compulsory quota for receiving refugees to the Member States of the European Union. Imagine if it passes such a proposal with the climate that prevails, where we will be led. The second issue is the VAT of the islands. The reduced rates of VAT in our border islands, ladies and gentlemen, do not constitute any concessions from the state to islanders or any favours to them but are a constitutional requirement. The constitutional legislature has made difficulties - not only economic but also national - for many years now has introduced reduced rates. It is a regulation which, in various legal forms, is implemented in many countries of the European Union. The abolition of the reduced rates, ladies and gentlemen, had been called upon by our troika and by our government, the New Democracy Government, when we had the responsibility for governance of the country in 2013, but also more persistent in 2014. Our answer was vertically negative. We did not give in and so the provision for the abolition of reduced VAT rates did not pass. Not only that, but there were other provisions, such as those on auctions, I remind you that they said they were in one-third. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I am also going to make use of the two-minute period which your predecessors have given to colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u225	Not a second, Mr. Athanasios.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u226	They talked eight and a half in nine minutes. Look at it if you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u227	Mr. Colleague, I'm not going to negotiate this. There is tolerance from the Bureau, but you do not set it a year. I would like to ask the President-in-Office if he is prepared to give us an answer. Keep talking, but you won't determine the time you're going to speak. So continue your speech. Please complete in two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u228	However, one cannot have eight and ten minutes from the previous presidents and you can be in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u229	Come on, keep going. You're wasting time anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u230	We have tabled an amendment to the bill of the Ministry of Trade Shipping, which was not introduced for discussion. Mr Minister, you have tabled an amendment and the New Democracy will support it. This is the mandate we have from our President, Mr Mitsotakis, that the reduced rates of VAT on the islands should be maintained. Bring her today, bring her tomorrow - you have room until Monday - and we will be voting in favour of it. Such is the issue of earthquakes in Lesvos, where they ask people to pay the HIS of devastated homes. And the last thing - and I will end in a minute - is the attacks on justice. You must understand, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, that Greece is the rule of law and therefore the roles of the three functions - legislative, executive, judicial - are distinct. You're trying to manipulate justice by working on it. You won't make it. You will respect its decisions when they become irrevocable, because that is the constitutional requirement and that is what the rule of law defines. I am not one of those who say that all decisions are always fair. That is why the procedural systems of the civilized states - like the procedural system in our country - provide for the possibility of a second degree error and annulling courts. However, when the decision becomes irreversible, we all have to respect it. Judges need to know that they are neither thrown nor terrified. The only weapon left for you now is promotions. And we saw the dives you did in the yearbook. In these speeches you will not find the addressees, except perhaps the least regrettable exceptions aimed at leading positions in the highest courts in the country. Already the New Democracy, with its proposal to revise the Constitution, will cut off the umbilical cord between the government and the judiciary in order to settle this issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u231	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u232	I shall conclude, Mr President. Another issue, which has emerged over the last few days, is'subject to you'. Ladies and gentlemen, let the Greek people hear it as well: The judges from the day they will be appointed until the day they retire and three years later, they submit 'from where you come'. It is not true what has been said recently that they refuse to submit 'from time to time'. They refused to apply the provision of a law which was considered unconstitutional, as well as the ministerial decision, which was wrong, of the Ministry of Justice. And instead of having the courage to say 'yes, we were wrong, because the decision was invalid and we bring another' - it concerns the decision on electronic reporting - they said there is a problem. I would like to conclude by reminding you of the corruption issue, which has been said, because this 'false' has to end. Nowadays, with the legislation we have passed and the National Coordinator against Corruption legislation, Greece in the international table of corruption countries has improved by twenty-five full positions. Your days have fallen by fifteen. The President of Parliament is not here. I wanted to address the President of Parliament. It would be a good thing if the President of Parliament, Mr Voutsis, who is not a legal person, could study Rule 164 of the Rules of Procedure of the House with his colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u233	Mr. Athanasios, you've exceeded the quarter, so I have every right to interrupt your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u234	I shall conclude, Mr President. It is a forgotten article and has not been applied much, which concerns the fate of the documents that the Member has in his hands. It's different in 164 than in 133. He's an expert. He could ask for...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u235	Mr. Athanasios, you're finished.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u236	One point and I'll finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u237	You're done here, Mr. Athanasios. I'll remove your word. Don't make me take that measure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u238	You should know that when politics conflicts with the law, the law will always come out of the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u239	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, sixty-nine students and students and four educational attendants from the 1st Evrosmos Thessaloniki High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Kaisha has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u240	Thank you, Mr President. I would say to the previous speaker that what applies to all the people, to all the citizens who are obliged to say 'from now on', that is to say to the judges, that there is no exception for anyone. That, I think, requires all the people. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating whether this is the third and last Memorandum of Understanding. There's a question for some. Is this a question acceptable to everyone, if that is the third and last Memorandum of Understanding? The answer to us is clear and not just for us. It is a clear answer for almost all of Europe. It was best demonstrated by the rapid third evaluation. They accept it and confess it to banks and international houses. All evidence shows that the country in August 2018 will be outside strict surveillance. Unemployment is falling. The interest rates are falling.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u241	What does that mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u242	I'll tell you. Industrial production is growing. Everything means it's going to be out of strict surveillance. In other words, it will be a normal country, linked to the European Union, like all other countries. We are not saying that they will be without obligations or without rights. Only opposition won't accept that we'll get out of the memos. Why is he doing this? Because after 2015, which lost government power, it was based on the fact that this left-wing government would be a parentheses. Unfortunately for the opposition, this lasted too long, there were elections again in September and the people again voted for this government. And all she's had to do since then is ask for elections and for disasters, that we won't be able to make the first assessment, that we won't be able to do the second one, that we're late. For the third evaluation they said that 'why did you do it fast?', while so far we were accused of being delayed. In other words, it is in a deadlock and cannot accept what appears to be the next step, namely the exit from the memoranda, on which of course the New Democracy and the PASOK had put us. I shall now come to a specific issue of the budget on health. We are very critical of reducing the funds to health. Health funds have been reduced for years. And they're reduced, not for any other reason, but because they're provided by the memos. Austerity was given due to memorials. So we are not the ones to defend or say that public health expenditure is increasing. What did we do, except that we were redeeming this system? I don't have time to tell you, but I'm going to tell you in the outlines: ERIC, 'NOVARTIS', 'Dynan', and there's no end to these scandals and these wastes. We are doing this: we are not merely financing public health from the regular budget - there are, of course, funds from there - but with the new tools that we have, such as the EFCA, which is surplus, we are strengthening the public health system. Let me remind you that it is this fund that has been very critical of the Katorugalou law, which is going very well. We say that public health expenditure is very low indeed. In our country it is 5.1% of GDP. The average in the European Union is between 6.5% and 7%. We will increase expenditure after the Memorandums. We will make primary health care and achieve equal and universal care. Let me remind you that this year, in 2017, most hospitals have clean cash. For example, in my area, the Two-Double Hospital has a reserve in December of 6,700,000 euros. The hospitals have never had a reserve in December. Finally, it has been heard that we are reducing family allowances. I would like to ask you: is it a reduction when for the first child of 40 euros we make it 70 euros from 1-1-2018? When the second kid from 80 euros takes it to 140 euros? When the third child from 240 euros goes to 280 euros? And over 140 euros for every additional child. And only for this increase for children, I would ask you to vote for it, ladies and gentlemen. Because if the kids live, there's hope. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u243	Mr. Rizzos has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u244	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the budget is at the same time an account, to see where we started and where we wanted to go. Somewhere we forget that we started from the humanitarian crisis, brought to us by others, and now we have reached the forefront of the memorials. Is all the difficult period for Greece coming to an end? No, but we have a clearing in front of us, and it's in the hands of all of us to move forward. There are issues like credibility, bankruptcy. So far we have been constantly called "government", "we've got cuts", "we don't get out of these programs", "you're awkward", "you're not capable of ruling." I'm going to reverse the question: How do these party leaders, who went bankrupt by their own parties, who owe a lot of money, save us? Isn't that a little oxymomile? Somewhere they have a crisis of selective gravity, as some colleagues have called it. Let us see what we want in the state and citizens, this relationship, for example, with social welfare. With electronic platforms we abolished this deprivation, this dependency between the citizens and the state, to the power of all kinds. We have started the digital governance that we have heard and not seen. Documents are already being handled internally in the Ministries of Digitals. We are aiming in 2018 for this process to be generalised and for it to be passed on to local government agencies. Benefits? The speed of decision-making, the speed of problem-making and, of course, the reduction of bureaucracy. Let's go a little bit to my place, to my special homeland. We have at the port of Alexandroupolis finally planned its connection to Ennatia. As I have already mentioned, we owe a great deal of gratitude, at least we locusts, to those who thought and created Ennatia in Greece. But, somewhere they forgot some things, such as connecting it to the ports, such as Alexandroupolis, for example. We have a new master plan, a free trade zone, funding has already been given to the port of Alexandroupolis. Energy nodes: Alexandroupolis passed TAP. We have the plan of expanding the natural gas network in Alexandroupolis and Orestiad, the two main cities, and in second phase for Soufli and Dumotich. We have the railroad that has been modernized. Finally, we have that central axis, which has come to an end, and has been afflicting the entire region for twenty years. There's geothermality in Alexandroupolis. For the first time, permits were granted for the production of electricity by a municipal company. This has never been seen by our region. Garden Customs. Everyone shouts at where the revenues came from the state budget. Hey, I'm telling you that a piece of this particular budget revenue has also been passed by the Garden Customs, which now has a radioactive detector and has passed the last X-ray machine for cargo control. Should we go to the TV signals? A lot of areas in Evros had no television signal, no state radio service was there. For the first time he went a signal now and they watch Greek TV, because they had to watch from the neighbors. These are, of course, a little 'principal' for many colleagues, but for us, who have lived and lived in some of their forms, are great things. Should we talk about Samothraki, its connection to Lavrio or its future connection to Lemnos and Mytilini? It is the "inability" of the government that has achieved it. After the disaster in Samothraki, it seemed that thirty years some people were throwing money and building structures in the sand, because they left no infrastructure on the island. These, ladies and gentlemen, are to the knowledge and compliance and reflection and contempt, not to do what has been done forty years and forty years. We must step on a solid step and with good prospects for tomorrow. And we all hope to get to that point in time that we have a much more optimistic and much more firm budget. I urge you to vote in favour of the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u245	Mr Georgadas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u246	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr SYRIZA's departure colleague said just now that we hope that we will have a better budget next year. But I think that this budget, which was implemented, the 2017 budget, has had very good results. I don't think he needs more! We managed to have one in two Greeks owed tax. It has managed to force five and a half million Greeks to get into effect, to see if the dividend of EUR 300, 400 is entitled. Five and a half million Greeks! If we remove those who are minors, almost two-thirds of the population sought the opportunity to get 300, 400 euros. We have, of course, a thousand seizures a day from tax to accounts of debtors, mainly free professionals, in terms of their debts to the ILO or to the funds. We've got a bump in private debt over 100 billion. All this is the result of the implementation of a very good budget for last year. Now you're coming to complete this nice work. Of course, there are also things that you have done in a way that really goes beyond me. For example, all Greek society felt that on the basis of the recruitment rule for civil servants, we are leading to a relative reduction in wage costs and, more generally, a relative reduction in public expenditure. This, then, rule 5 to 1, then 4 to 1 and this year 3 to 1 in your hands has brought the following terrible result: increasing the wage costs of the general government, according to the 2018 budget, by 443 million. How, while we say that we are limiting the public, based on the rule of withdrawals - recruitment I repeat, you have managed to increase wage costs by half a billion actually exceeds me. And to say the figures in particular, while last year's wage spending was EUR 12,217,000, this year's, it's EUR 12,600,000. That's, really, a great feat. So I think you're doing very well and coming with a great credibility. You think you have credibility to convince the Greek society that you are capable of leading to those growth rates that are necessary to get out of this deadlock and vicious circle. It is you who calculated growth rates of 2.7% last year for 2017, you confined them to 1.6%, and we see that we will reach some 1.2% with 1.3%. If the growth rate is not what we need, we will thus have a renewed vicious cycle of austerity, but which now leads to the real poverty of the Greek society. What you have proved, however, is that ultimately what is called growth - fair growth, simple growth, anyway, the growth that the Greek society wants - you are not in a position to achieve, nor can you, nor do you want to achieve it. None of your results - and these results are tangible, they are measurable - makes us optimistic that the country will indeed be led to those growth rates, which are necessary in order to be able to give the low pensioners, the low-wage breathing, which they need, so that five and a half million Greeks are forced to run for the dividend of the tax that was preceded, so that they can pay it. You should know something. Most of the taxes, which have been imposed for at least 2017, are indirect taxes, i.e. taxes which mainly affect those that are the weakest strata of society. But in these weak layers of society, in relation to at least the auctions, you have achieved very great achievements. Let me remind the Greek society that the "exploitable" New Democracy, in the opinion of some, 2008, 2009, 2010, then 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014, protected the first residence, of an objective value of up to 200 thousand euros. She protected her. The "exploitable" New Democracy, although opposition in 2010, passed Katseli law, because it was a law that at the beginning of the crisis, indeed enabled some of our citizens to protect themselves. SYRIZA, I remind you again, in 2010 did not vote for Katseli law. When the New Democracy in 2013 updated him he did not vote for him. And, of course, the Stathakis law, which they allegedly invoke as protection over the two previous laws, is a law that restricts, psalmizes the rights of those who are in fact incapable. But when all the political forces in this Chamber had to show a seriousness, do not have populism, because populism had short feet, there was not this climate of convergence and consensus, and you said a word: seismicism. The word humiliation was your favorite. This word and many other words that characterized you with the populism with which you have been opposed, unfortunately accompanying you today. But you are still ruling with populism. This leads to an end which is legislative, a end that is certain of you, but I hope it will come quickly, to save the Greek society all that can be saved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u247	We're continuing with Mrs. Karasarlidou from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u248	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, the budget that we are debating today is the last Memorandum of Understanding, and that can only be a positive development. A positive development for all Greeks and all Greek women and I believe in all the political forces. I say this because it has not been made clear from your speech if you consider it to be a positive development. I think it is something you need to make clear to the Greek people. So it closes after many years a historical cycle. The circle of memorials that we inherited from the governments of the New Democracy and the PASOK. Developments show that the conditions have been created to pass into the memorial era. The third assessment closes, we prepare for exiting the markets, and the country enters a recovery orbit. And all this is the result of a huge and intensive effort, particularly the rationalisation of expenditure without cuts, but in the social state and, of course, the reduction in the fragmentation of public money and corruption. I am, in fact, following the extent and depth of this phenomenon, which has been going on all these years in the PASOK and the New Democracy, of course, due to the limitation of part of the tax evasion. After about ten years we are expected to have growth rates close to 2%. Unemployment is falling for the third consecutive year by seven percentage points. Of course this does not mean that all the difficulties and financial problems of our fellow citizens have been solved. But there is a change in the economy. In the last three years, we have been strengthening the protection of the most vulnerable citizens. I would like to mention some examples: Social solidarity income for seven hundred thousand beneficiaries, the reinforcement of the low pensioners in 2016, the dividend of EUR 1.4 billion, more than double over last year, the institution of school meals, the free postgraduate for students who are not able to pay, the protection of people's housing, universal and equal health care for all citizens. We have incorporated two and a half million uninsured free of charge into the national health system and the creation of primary health care. At this point I would like you to allow me to stand in the health field. Our bet for us from the start of governance has been to be able to support and streamline public structures, recruit permanent and subsidiary staff, strengthen hospital budgets and increase the ability of the national health system to meet the needs of all citizens. Let us not forget that the policies of the previous PASOK and the New Democracy governments have had three very serious negative effects, the closure of almost all primary doctors, so that citizens are conspired to hospital emergency services on whatever issue they may have been concerned with, the strengthening of the private health sector and the exit of three thousand doctors from the system. Also, let us not forget that in the past two and a half million people have been excluded from the public health system. We have so far managed to strengthen the ESS with permanent and subsidiary staff, to increase expenditure on public structures and the EEAS, to delete the debts of the uninsured, but above all to legislate on universal and equal coverage of the population, with a clear priority in public care. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2018 budget demonstrates the intentions of this government. We are moving forward and trying to create the right conditions for the country to recover, but also the weak citizens to stand up. We are limiting the shadow economy, broadening the interventions to support social protection, and we are seeking development with a social effect. It's true that we still have a lot to do. Be sure to do so and we will be able to get out of the memorials in August 2018, to finally begin to regain our country's sovereignty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u249	Mr. Aivatidis has the floor from Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u250	Golden Dawn, from the outset, has explicitly stated in the most unequivocal way that it will vote against this budget, which is a monumental structure, I would say, with an additional rosy time of bolshevikism, and we therefore consider it unacceptable and ethnic corruption to be unacceptable. This budget is centralised, centralised and anti-subsidy. Especially for the major issue that concerns and should employ all the political parties, all the political world, the demographic problem, it does not offer anything for the country, for the nation. It has been heard that it is the last Memorandum of Understanding and that in August 2018 the net exit from the Memorandum will take place. This view is a political product of people, politicians, who are either ethers or are clearly arrogant. This is either a political illusion or a clear political fraud. What, then, is the diagnosing element in order for someone to draw a safe conclusion that it is fraud or fraud? In my opinion, one is the crucial point, when the capital controls will be lifted. There's nothing to be said about. A basic rule governing finance demands the challenge of an economic crisis in a state, when there are three elements: the free movement of capital, the stable parity and the sovereign - I would say - monetary policy. The question here for our country is this: what have the capital controls contributed? One question, too, is whether the capital controls are lifted. Because it is not meant to leave the Memorandum Policies without the removal of capital controls or to be understood as genuine development. The government must therefore expressly say when the controls on capital movements will be lifted. If it does not respond, and if its answer is not true, then that government, as we imagine, is a government by political aggregators. The budget is overcrowded, falsely developed, and provides for a surplus of 3.8%. How is it possible - I repeat - for genuine growth to take place without any lifting of capital controls? But another very serious aspect arises, that both indirect and direct taxes are increased. That is why we are talking about overtaxation. Indirect taxes exceed about 33% of direct taxes. The question is why is this policy being pursued? Why are capital controls actually validating this economic period in our country? The answer is that this was the order of the well-intentioned speculator, as he himself has said, by an indirect supporter of SYRIZA, George Soros, who has of course been released, is unwanted in Russia. His organisms are obscured. In Greece, however, it seems that there are arables, and these arables belong to the government and not just to the government. What would that budget be that Golden Dawn would vote for? It is a national rescue budget aimed at proclaiming the exclusive economic zone, the nationalisation of our country's wealth-producers, the strengthening of the primary sector with connection to the tourism product, the development of a defence industry, with a Greek Orthodox education and the most critical of solving the demographic problem with a generous subsidy for childbirth for Greek families. So we say 'no' to the SYRIZA-ANEL budget. It is a manifestation of arrogantism - I repeat - a manifestation of dogma at better times, but also of the assignment of national sovereignty. Only Golden Dawn can lead out of a memorial labyrinth to our homeland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u251	Mr Vorides has the floor from New Democracy. Another speaker will follow, which will complete the sixth circle of Members of Parliament. The Minister will intervene, Mr. Spirtzis, and we will enter the seventh circle of speakers. Here, Mr. Voridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u252	Thank you, Mr President. It is impressive how little the debate on this budget has made public. I think that, above all, because it expresses the deepest despair of wider strata, which absolutely expect nothing from the implementation of this budget. Perhaps the only interest that has been heard and which deserves to be commented on is the introduction of the SYRIZA rapporteur, who considers that there is not at least enough taxation yet. Therefore, another tax is needed. Specifically, he said - in order not to blame him - that some are being blamed and, therefore, since some are being charged, there is obviously room for further taxation, at the time when there have been Chinese bonds on the part of the financial officer for the class campaigning of these tax policies in the direction of effectively extermination of the middle-class. To be fully informed, the middle class on SYRIZA has been set. The middle class on SYRIZA is people with an income of 500 euros or more. This is the middle-class, because this is where taxation starts after the abolition of tax. So things are very simple. I think they're perfectly clear. The choices have been made. They are key choices and they have nothing to do with the Financial Adjustment Programme or - to say otherwise - they implement the Financial Adjustment Programme with the particular view that SYRIZA has. It is not his policy neutral. It's not the only politics. It is not the only option that could be made to meet the budgetary commitments. These are SYRIZA's options. And that is what I think it needs to be evaluated - and it will be evaluated - by the Greek society. At the level of local government, it is important to see how the budget is implemented, because there too these basic principles are expressed, those principles which could be summarised at greater costs for taxpayers, less provision of service for citizens, but an increase in payroll costs. This is the direction in which we have a budget for the funding of local government bodies. I am speaking in particular: Estimates of 2016. Central self-resources are 2.567 million. Provisions for 2017 ultimately 2.347,000. We're coming to the 2018 budget. Estimates: 2.333,000. Provisions: 2.018.000.000. What does that mean, practically? This means that the planned central resources for 2018 -- keep this -- are 5.16% smaller than 2016, Mr. Manda. This is also an ideological choice. It is an ideological choice that expresses suspicion, in the final analysis, of those who are ideologically militant in the great state. What big state? The big central state. That state. And that is why they do not really want a strong self-government at this level. Why is this reduction in the financing of central independent resources? Because - there, too, see a counterfactual - taxes which are now being retained for self-government have been stopped. As you know, in a series of legislations, on a number of charges, part of these tax charges is defined by the legislature as having to be transferred to self-government. Indeed, these taxes have not been transferred to self-government and not only for days SYRIZA. I have to say it to be consistent. You saw how fair I am in my argument, Mr. Manda, which you are not doing. For the days of government Anthony Samaras had regulated the return of these taxes, of unpaid, but already retained. And this has stopped for days of SYRIZA. That is why we have a reduction in funding. But why am I telling you that all of this is ideological? Because while funding is shrinking into central self-resources, we have - guess what! - an increase in the cost of payroll by 126,000,000 euros. What does that mean in practice? This in practice means less funding despite an increase in the tax burden on citizens. Therefore, citizens are very taxed, local government is reduced in funding - so the provision of services to citizens by the administrative agencies is falling - but, on the other hand, we have an increase in payroll costs. This is SYRIZA. That's his ideological identity. Reference has been made to small groups - and this has been expressed at the level of local government and in a series of legislation - in the recruitment of unnecessarily, even unconstitutional, racist policies, benefits to specific groups of workers, but worsening the provision of services, weakening the dynamism of local government institutions, hostility to what can undermine the central aim of the SYRIZA for a large, centralised, heavy state. Self-government - and this too - is suffering the consequences of this policy. And the people of self-government, along with the rest of the Greek people, are just waiting for the election time to begin a new course for the country, the one that our country so much needs. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u253	Ladies and gentlemen, the time is 20.55 ́. With the aim of completing today's process at around 22.30', according to the programming we have done and on the basis of time, even with the tolerance beyond the sixteenth, we will finish the seventh cycle of the speakers and will also speak two Members from the eighth cycle, that is, Mr. Aristotle and Mr. Kastoris. In other words, about twelve speakers and an emblem from the ministers will still speak. Mr. Synthrakis has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u254	Thank you, Mr President. And the 2018 budget is designed to serve the needs of capital for the sake of fair growth - as the government likes to say - by sacrificing people's needs on the altar of capitalist profitability and competitiveness. But what does the budget for municipalities and regions provide for? Firstly, it provides for a reduction in State funding for municipalities and a vertical increase in revenue from taxes and fees. This is the widely advertised decentralisation of responsibilities leading to de facto bleeding of popular income. For 2018, the budget provides funding for the municipalities of EUR 2,441,000,000 and for the regions only EUR 738,000. If we take away the money for school cleaning houses, pre-school benefits and employee pay, in order for the municipalities to function, they must make use of their own revenues, which, of course, are constantly increasing. Of the 2,630,000 planned for 2018, 2021 will reach 3 billion, as foreseen in the mid-term programme 2018-2021. So this is the practical contribution of the municipalities to the bloodshed, to our people, to the surplus, with more state revenues in business groups and lenders. It is a challenge for the people at the time when their income is being looted, the government is propagandaing the payroll as a one-way path towards forced budgetary targets, in order to ensure - as it says - staff in municipalities and not to privatise cleaning services. Yes, but the legislative framework that privatises cleanliness remains intact and already applies to 30% of the municipalities. Secondly, the Public Investment Programme on the funds of the collective decision of local government, the so-called SATA, is reduced by 24,000,000 compared to 2017. They do not go far enough for elementary maintenance of the municipal infrastructure, by resorting to additional taxes and charges, to privatisation of infrastructure and resources, to lending from the banks. This is how the government's pursuit is bound up with the new institutions of social cooperatives and workers' cooperatives. Also, it is not enough for either the established yearbook refreshment of schools or their maintenance. There is not even a single euro for the earthquake shielding of school units, when 30% of schools count more than fifty-one-year-olds. The solution given by the government not only to build up, but also to maintain schools for the first time, is public-private partnerships with the false undertaking to grant relief from the building and maintenance funds, by means of a partial payment. In other words, state money to construction companies for the construction and operation of school buildings for twenty-five years and with the municipalities - i.e. people's families - the permanent liability to construction companies for their use. H, and anti-military, anti-nuclear and anti-Semitism armour are out of design and specific funding. Why? Because they are not eligible projects by the European Union, they do not leave profit margins for the construction capital. But we saw the criminal effects of this policy in Mandra Attica, Chania, Symi, Corfu and other parts of the country. In the rapporteur's report on the identity of the projects activated - not implemented - civil protection projects account for 248 000 000, i.e. only 1/18 of the funds activated. Thirdly, the 738,000 million allocated to the regions are crumbs, as their role is now to manage the RDPs and the funding of the ESDP, in other words with the development priorities of capital. Hence the so-called 'development conferences' set up by the Government to a good partnership with the opposition regulators and other representatives of all urban parties. Because the regions, as part of the division of roles and responsibilities in the administrative structure of the urban state, now have a more central role to play in development policy. They collect resources for the capital on the basis of its profitability. On the other hand, municipalities undertake to design and manage a prestigious social policy with the opportunity for poverty networks of so-called "successful volunteers", the COMPs, NGOs, with cheap labour, aimed at opening up new possibilities for capital. For example, the creation of four hundred new kindergartens for ten thousand infants and infants with the 15,000, 000, which Mrs Fotio tells us, is a fruitful talisman, not because it will not be implemented, but because it is about opportunities with COMES. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Allow me a little, Mr President, if possible. I'll be done. Children's stations aren't empty doll houses. In order to function, it needs staff, food and pedagogical material for children. So the miracle of bread at the wedding in Cana, no matter how religious some are, here does not find the application. Ladies and gentlemen, this state budget is also linked to the modernisation of state and local administration, it is linked to the primary surplus targets, to the reduction of wages, the dismantling of insurance funds, the overthrow of labour relations, the redundancies coming for thousands of contractors. For the JRC priority is the popular needs for life with rights. The people are bleeding enough. Do not let the people buy the story of 'fair growth' that takes away the profits of capital or the crumbs for the impoverished. The interests of the people's strata are on the opposite side of those of capital. We therefore call on the working class, the self-employed, the poor farmers, the young people to take action. In the new, difficult year, when they are being prepared by the government, the European Union, the Local and Regional administration, to give a fighter, a dynamic presence on the strike on December 14 and at PAME's rallys, to roar "Down off the strike, by social, democratic, labour rights". We call on them to join the JRC, to form their own social alliance against the black capital front - the European Union - the Government - local government and to claim the replacement of the losses of the crisis and the wealth they produce and to take their own authority. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u255	The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport has the floor, Mr. Spirtzis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u256	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as you all know in 2018, it is the year when the Greek people succeeded in catching a place. It is the year when the nightmare of memorials and programs is completed. It is the year when we find a small, sweet smile again, we find the hope and optimism of our people, our society that every year it comes will be better, that every year it comes, unemployment will be reduced, our colleagues, our brothers and scientists from our country will return from abroad. We rediscover the hope that every year we come, we will build a better social state, we will have better health, better education, that every year we come, we will complete projects and start news that we will have a comprehensive plan, we will work it out with society and we will observe it. Unfortunately, this smile for the Greek people, the recovery of our hope and national sovereignty is the nightmare of Anti-Population. We understand that you will not be able to alibi the Memorandum to continue to favour the few of your chosen ones with a special inspiration for neoliberalism. You will not be able to lose real productive powers in the benefit of posters. You will not be able to have the Greek people in agony if you have a job tomorrow or if you will fire him or throw him out of public hospitals, because he owes insurance contributions. You will not be able to have our unemployed fellow citizens with special disabilities, the vulnerable social groups marginalised. You won't be able to subdue the black job so some people can put it in their pockets. We are listening to the positions of Opposition for the 2018 budget, the last in programmes. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy last year, you blamed us for the third pension that it was a firework, that we made fun of it, that it would not be given again. This year the social dividend has been more than double. Who was fooling who and when? Who's lying? I can hear you complaining about a reduction in social costs. Three years you are now complaining to us - you and your friendly media - because we introduced the unemployed to move free of charge with public transport in Athens and Thessaloniki. We are told 'quimps', 'flakes','spalos'. In the last week we have been denounced for the provision of disabled people, the unemployed and the permanent residents of remote areas, which must be supported, to go through freely. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we are not concerned about it. We trust in your social person, your party's social sensitivities. We lived them two and a half years ago and we and the Greek people. We trust in your dogmatic obsession not to serve the interests of the Greek people but your few chosen. You can't even hide it, you can't keep the pretexts instantly. We want - we sincerely want it - to tell us more about the benefits of the unemployed, our fellow citizens, the Greeks who live in remote areas, the disabled. We know why you're giving such a rabies battle. The first reason is that we strike at the heart of the core of your ideology and politics, the degradation of Greek society and the service of a few and fine economic interests you identify. The second reason is why the completion of the program means the final end, the ideological defeat of the neoliberal Greek-colonialism, the end of your practice that brought us here, which painted "reformation" redundancies, the reduction of pensions, the increase of unemployment, the reduction of GDP in 1/4, the eruption of the social state, the working institutional framework. That's all we've got is silence! For the first Memorandum, for the second, for the third, for the millennium you would like to have, for the privatization commitments and the way they are made, for the fake'success story', for the secret talks with the lenders over the last three years, for the non-completion of works, for the grotesques, for everything. Gently and silent. So I cannot, ladies and gentlemen, dedicate to you the verse of the song that he says, 'Before the end how silence looks, as a love great'. We love you. You are proposing a reduction in taxation, but your friends, your supporters, your few and your chosen ones, are taxed on virgin, paradise tax islands. You are, supposedly, cut off for the middle-class that you have broken up, for the entrepreneurship that is aimed only at the businessmen in your yard. For you and your President, the Greek people are the ignorant majority. That's why we know that you and your friends have done everything - and you will do everything - so that there is no solution to the connections of the programs. But you're making dreams of summer night. It'll be summer. And it will be this summer with this government! Ladies and gentlemen, it is an opportunity today, in the debate on the 2018 budget, to present to you the actions of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport by project category, but also the budget and balance sheet of what we said in 2017, a year ago. For us accountability, accountability and self-criticism are our duty to the Greek people. We're not afraid of them, we have nothing to hide. We are not in your own logic that you have been walking around the country and you have announced unfunded projects that have never been made. There were no competitions or works. First class is the road axes. In the budget debate a year ago, I said - and I will say self-determination about what I said, to highlight the mud that you are throwing every day in cooperation with your press offices, i.e. through specific media - that 2017 will be the year of the completion of major road projects. We've done it. After decades our fellow citizens can safely move around the country. Sixty years you did to build PATHE and you didn't make it. What did you say two years ago? You said that we would not implement the projects and that we would destroy the country. A year ago you said that we are delaying, that we will not complete and that we will return billions to the European Union and to the banks. A few months ago you said we were inaugurating the works that you completed. You probably wouldn't find a ribbon and only inaugurated with moving machines and workers. You remember them. Today you are complaining about the level of tolls that you had predicted twice in the original contracts and in the revision. Along with the five roads a number of public road infrastructure projects were completed. The vertical axis of Entrepreneuria in Rodopi, Komotini - Nymphaia, the vertical axis of the Entrepreneuria road "Kastonia - Krystalpigi", the vertical axis of the Entrepreneuria road "Florina - Niki", the road section Mudania - Potidaia. And it follows the road section Thermi - Galatista and the vertical axis of Ennaia "Thessaloniki - Serres - Promahona". The "Mandra - Psathadas" is being handed over next week to the vertical axis of Evros, as from 2005. That's when you commissioned her. In 2017, as we said, the competitive procedures for the motorway from Patras to the Tower were completed. That's where we have to say we're late. Procedures are completed with the European Commission and implementation of the project begins. It was completed in 2017, as we said, the process for the completion of the road in Messara, Crete. Since 2017 has not finished, we are constantly working to get two competitions, on the northern road axis of Crete, from Chania to Agios Nikolaos, another sixty years of publicity and promises of old-fashioned communism, which the government of Alexis Tsipras also implements. After decades of promises, a series of erroneous, partial and incoherent constructions, the invitation of interest and the pre-selection process will be published. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Minister hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, I ask for your tolerance, because we have done a great deal, and we have a lot more to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u257	Minister, time is specific, no matter how much you do.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u258	I agree. I would like to mention another competition in 2017, that of the electronic toll system for the whole country. In 2018 for us the beginning of the implementation of the E65 from Lamia to Xyniada, the play anecdotes, begins to leave only the middle part of the project. We will try in 2018 to launch the northern part of the project as well, but at least it will have the great work of revising the Samara government and the criminal errors of reducing the natural principle. Within 2017 it was auctioned and within the first quarter of 2018 the construction of Salamis' submarine road connection will begin. Two other wounds that we inherited and healed are the Aktio - Ambros road axis, which is auctioned by Genaris, and Aktio - Lefkada, in the first quarter of the same year. The bypass of Chalkida shall be auctioned during the first two months of 2018. We are preparing the file for the construction of the precursors and extensions of the Attica Road and of course for the Suburban Railway to Lavrio. Finally, a road safety programme has been adopted throughout the country for a total budget of 500 million and the first project to be auctioned for road safety is in Crete, a budget of 25 million. Second charge. Rail. In 2017 we said that we are continuing to implement 832 million projects, which are necessary. What did we do? We are completing the new double-engineered Tithorea - Lianokladi - Domokos. The Tithorea - Lianocladi section is given in January 2018, the Lianocladi - Domokos section in June 2018 and Thessaloniki - Idomeni, to be all set up in April 2018. Larissa Station and the construction of the electrified section Larissa Station - Piraeus on the Piraeus railway line - Tithorea and running on January 15, 2018. Eleven years you had the central station of the country in bulk, endless. The port of Piraeus will finally be connected to the airport. In 2018 we complete the construction of the railway section Rododafni - Psathokyrgos. It's at 72% today. It was at 60 percent last year. A contract, as we said a year ago, was signed for construction at the Psathofros - Bozaitika section in Patras. The call for sub-installation of the Sepolis train line was published and by February 2018 new rail budget projects of 250m euros were announced. Specifically, the Kiato - Rododafni, Larissa - Volos, Paleofarsala - Calabaka. We also have the Memorandum with Bulgaria - which you were mocking us when we were talking about 'Egnatia Rail' - to connect the three ports of northern Greece to the Black Sea, a task which, following the Prime Minister's initiatives, is supported by the European Commission, President Juncker, and Romania wants to join. The competition for the Triumph is being finalised at the Court of Auditors and, obviously, there is the continuity for the remaining part of the Triumph, which is a thousand acres. Thessaloniki metro line. In March 2017, as we said, the works of civil engineering were completed and we continue. In 2019, the extension for Kalamaria and the main work, another New Democracy joke project, will be completed. 2020 is finally delivered to the citizens of Thessaloniki for use. And in 2018 the precursors of the new stations for western Thessaloniki begin. Works are on the way to the Haidari-Piraeus section. In 2019, the first three stations are delivered for use. The metropolitan arrived in Piraeus. Piraeus saw it. And apparently the competition came out, as we said, on August 10, 2017, for Line 4 of Athens Metro and much more.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u259	A lazy one, Nice.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u260	We said. It's three stations next week.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u261	Minister, let's finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u262	It's too much. I'll leave the railroads. People really see them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u263	If you have them in paintings, give them up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u264	It's been a competition and it's been completed in Castelli, to tell you about an airport. It was done, as you know, for free of Paros and for free the modernisation of the existing Heraklion airport. All these years, we haven't seen anything done for free, with zero euros. Saving from the barren lines you wasted to present to your own businessmen was 196 million in four years and arrived at the competition we made at 42 million. Savings from the first year do not go to debt, gentlemen of the New Democracy, go to a competition that we will make in 2018 to get two helicopters, the inhabitants of the remote islands do not feel isolated, to be able to do aerospaces with any weather conditions. We had said, and this was a spiral in the last week - Mr President, this is important, because it is about the flooding projects - and I quote myself what I said a year ago: "In 2017 the emphasis of the national public investment programme will be given to the anti-military projects rather than the squares, so that we can stop living in the poor neighbourhoods of Athens, Kalamata, Thessaloniki and the rest of life." As usual, the Opposition and its militant means have distorted it. So let's see what we did. From 2015 to 2017...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u265	Minister, you have exceeded time. You've reached 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u266	I'm done. You're right, but it's for the flooding. From 2015 to 2017, 302 million for the Attica Region, 90 million for the rest of Greece, were integrated and 250 million works were planned for flooding from the settlements and the urban highways. Those who move our finger from 2010 to 2014 had incorporated 3.5m euros of flooding projects, 21m for the rest of Greece and no provision for the anti-milling projects where the motorways pass. I am tabling them in detail, for the New Democracy colleagues to check what they had done from 2010 to 2014. [[At this point, Minister Christos Spirtzis presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] I'm done. We had two versions because you wondered what happened in Mandra. You left all of Greece a Mandra and your president, as Minister, left the municipalities without any engineer, because you are now accusing us of an increase. It's a terrible thing to do. We could adopt your proposal, really. To get back to three years EUR 3.5 million from the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport counter-planning projects, and then to every flood, to take Trojana away from the roads - rivers, such as Mr Mitsotakis. [[Applause]] I shall close, Mr President, although I have a great deal to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u267	Everyone wants to say a lot in such a process, but time is specific and pressures. There has been tolerance from the Bureau, I think.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u268	You're right. Whatever you do, the Greek people in 2018 ends with the nightmare you have put in him. Our country comes with its head standing, a country that, with the political initiatives, with the Prime Minister's peace and cooperation initiatives, has again gained a voice and a role in European and international developments, a country that is leading the wider region with infrastructure for transport, energy, telecommunications, the extroversion of our economy, defending the interests of the Greek people and national issues. So whatever you do, no matter what you say, the new projects will be launched again by Alexis Tsipras, outside the programs, with social justice policies and a fair development plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u269	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u270	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u271	Before going to the next circle of speakers, Parliamentary Representatives of the New Democracy and Democratic Alliance, Mr Stagiras and Mr Loverdos, have been asked for the floor for a minute. Mr Stavros has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u272	Mr President, thank you very much. I must admit, Minister, that your position was beyond provocativeness. He had misguided personal insinuations, he had mentioned a number of measures, which after you had voted against, now you are trying to sacrifice yourself by putting a banner. But I'm going to stay on two political arguments. You said about a small smile that goes back to the lips of the Greek citizens and you even talked about a return to normality. Is it really a return to normality that there are still capital restrictions? Is it a return to normality to the competitiveness of the economy to continue to fall? Is it a return to normality today that we are talking about, with the evidence announced by the government, the overdue debts of citizens to tax and insurance funds continue to increase, to have increased by 50% since the end of 2014? Is the State's debts to the private sector in return to normality today that we are talking about being increased by 15% since the end of 2014? Is it a return to normality that elastic work has reached record levels? Is it a return to normality to the flight of scientists to continue and grow? Is it a return to normality that the deposits are not returned to the banking system? Is it a return to normality in 2019 to have new measures, in 2020?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u273	Mr Stavoura, I am sorry, but if you have taken the floor to put a number of questions and if you expect the Minister's reply, it is at the expense of the next speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u274	I'll be done in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u275	I'm sorry, so we don't get misunderstood, I don't deprive you of your word, but let me. You requested the floor for some intervention. It felt that the Bureau was right to give it to you in order to speak on a matter. You put a list of questions and you are right to ask the Minister or the government to answer them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u276	I'm entitled for two minutes to sit down and finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u277	It's not a question whether you're entitled to it or not. You deserve it, we didn't deny it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u278	For us, the return to the normality you invoke is the new government's delusion. Finally, what ideology do you speak of without ideological coordinates, moral inhibitors, with'soul pain', do you vote everything? I sincerely tell you that all kinds of political and ideological GPS have not been able to catch you especially for many years.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u279	Mr. Loverdo, do you want to say?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u280	Yeah, absolutely.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u281	You have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u282	Of course, for a minute. Minister, I listened with great attention to you in the 20 minutes that you spoke and I was not surprised because I have heard you, on TV, of course, in Ioannina, in February 2017, likewise, a Eurogroup decision, which meant the end of austerity for Greece, with the release of the Ioanninas. I've heard you with my ears. So why am I surprised you came here tonight and took the triumph round for all the good things you've done and done in a few weeks or months? It's not strange. Only, instead of making the triumph round in the House, I advise you to go to Mandra with the anti-military works. Please tell us why you didn't do it on the line with the online ticket. And why don't you go and Patras tower, in the eight projects that you've broken against corruption fighting, tell us there, have these works finished, Minister, or are even pending?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u283	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u284	Yes, I will give you the floor, Minister. Shall we say three minutes? Please answer briefly.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u285	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u286	Hey, what's gonna happen now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u287	Excuse me, Minister. Mrs. Antoniou, why do you stand up? He asked some questions from Mr Stavouras and you being a member of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, whose parliamentary representative asks some questions, you...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u288	Stacura's grinning!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u289	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u290	Thank you very much. I'll start with Mr. Loverdo. He didn't watch me at the front and I'll say it again. Mr. Loverdo, your place has obviously also acknowledged that part of the national sovereignty has been lost in the first memorandum, in the second memorandum, in the third memorandum. Therefore, we cannot be pleased that the programme ends in August 2018, at least we. It can't be done. Firstly, we cannot be happy, I repeat. Secondly, you asked questions about the part of the Patras tower project. The competitive procedures have been completed. The four are at the Court of Auditors. We are waiting for the European Commission's approval of the major project dossier. That's where we were late. For the crime that the Samara government committed and those who served to pull out both to E65 and to Olympia outside, it meant that the file would be re-checked, under the terms of the European Commission today, not under the terms of Mr Soufflia's 2006.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u291	Sounds good.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u292	Very good. Well done. Congratulations, you've made a lot of gifts to the concessionaires. You did that, too. So let's go for the specula you've thrown for this Patra - Tower project, because that's how you get used to it. We took it to the prosecutor's office. Why don't you go too if you think there's even been an illegality? The D.A.'s out. Why don't you go? One of the prisoners. [[Noise from the Wing of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR]] Now let's go to Mr. Stakoura. What's normal? Regularity is when it is done in Central Greece, in Lamia you are elected, a roadwork, a railroad project, so close, a man, some service, some time go to see what is going on there, who will do the project and how it does not flood. Regularity is not to give 1.250,000,000 allowances that you had foreseen in your contracts for the four concessions requested by concessionaires and contractors. Regularity is not to give 1,100,000 for 30% of the project of Metro Thessaloniki, not for the whole project that was 900,000,000. That's normality. It is normal in four years that we do not pay 196,000,000 barren lines, but that there is a competition and that the Greek State pays 42,000,000. Regularity, Mr Stakoura, is that there should be zero, one and two engineers in the spectacular work you left in the municipalities, but that there should be technical services, that there should be air traffic controllers in the U.S., that you did not let, that there should be bus drivers, that you did not leave, that there should be doctors in hospitals, who you did not leave, that there should be teachers in the schools that you did not leave. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] [[Laughing - applause from the New Democracy Wing]] And enjoy your president, who was Minister of Administrative Reform. Congratulations on your delightful work. That's the normality, and that's where the country's going.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u293	Mr. Simorellis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u294	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the dear Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy also spoke of - if I have heard the phrase - 'existent projects'. Because it's Lamia, and because we're late, I'll let him know that the E65 project is ready and I'll ask you to release it. Let's call Mr. Parliamentary in Trikala or Karditsa, since it's from Lamia to see how far these works are.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u295	And when they started!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u296	Don't interrupt, Mr. Stakoura. Mr. Simorelli, continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u297	I don't like to comment on people who aren't here in the Chamber. But I cannot comment on certain things, such as when some advise us to respect justice. That's what we're doing. We respect justice. Decisions shall be binding. Apart from that, however, let us be able to judge the judgments of justice. Here, in fact, I would like to say: 'Look who's talking.' People who were judges in action, resigned, came immediately Ministers and today we are swinging the finger and are told that we are not respecting justice. Who doesn't respect it? Ladies and gentlemen, voting for the 2018 budget is the top parliamentary and political process. The 2018 budget is of strategic importance to the progress of the economy. At the same time, however, we are pleased to talk about the last Memorandum of Understanding submitted under the macroeconomic adjustment programme. This marks the end of a difficult period for the Greek people, during the committee's term, and it opens up the country's entry into a single period of economic stability. This obviously does not mean that all the problems of the economy will be solved by magic, but we will now have more autonomy and flexibility to better plan our own policy. The improved position of our country in the macroeconomic indicators will allow us to claim better lending conditions at our upcoming outlet on the markets. And we've already done it twice with great success. At the same time, the Financial Strategy Medium-term Framework 2018-2021 ensures us for the years to come in the financial area to strengthen social protection and implement the reductions in tax rates, households and businesses that are still at high levels, as small and medium-sized enterprises so need it. We are therefore entering this new period and usefully it is to make a brief review to understand that the current government is the only one that, in the midst of a crisis, monuments and restrictive policies, made the most substantial negotiation and managed to strengthen the country's position and implement a parallel humanitarian crisis response programme. The child poverty we received from 52.9% has fallen to 21.2%. Unemployment has declined from the 27.9% astronomical rate that it reached in 2013-2014 at 21.5% this year in September and is expected to be further declining. The insurance, which has collapsed from the mismanagement and scandalous policies of previous governments, has been stabilised and the ETUC is a surplus of 400 million. Work has intensified SEA controls and progressive provisions have been passed on to the world of work. The priority for compensation is for all workers in the event of a company being dismantled. To health, some two million of our insecure fellow citizens have access so that our poor fellow men can enjoy this supreme good. At the same time, the reform of primary health, which will relieve hospitals from the workload, began. As of January 1, 2017, it is credited to our thousands of fellow citizens in need of social solidarity income and, in addition, social dividends are provided to more than one million families, resulting from the over-performance of last year's objectives. For 2018, an economic growth rate of 2.5% and a primary surplus of 3.82% of GDP is projected. It is more than the target of 3.5%, therefore, and next year we estimate that we will be given the possibility of a social dividend. The Social Income Programme will continue with the amount of EUR 760 million. It is also very positive that there is provision for setting up three hundred and eighty new primary nurseries serving an additional ten thousand children. It is also important to increase the budget allocated to family allowances and increase the funds for the first and second children. Let us also note that for the second consecutive year after many years public spending on education is increased by 184 million euros compared with budgets from the Ministry of Education's budget for 2018. It is well known that if the future for our country is good, it depends very much on the level of education we have. In the positive developments that we see in the Greek economy, the attitude of the New Democracy, which, by refusing to accept reality, is currently being carried out to a low level of opposition, which is far from reality. Our country and democracy need a healthy opposition that is exemplary in its role. Instead of trying to pull the carpet into the government over the last few years, many of the false new and misleading moves have been served. Whatever they do, the government's term of office ends in 2019 and then elections will be held. At that time the Greek people, seeing the important results of our policy, will compare, support and vote again for SYRIZA in order to continue their efforts towards its well-being. We shall therefore be voting in favour of this last budget planned under programme supervision and will continue to fight for the stability and fair development of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u298	Mrs Antoniou has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u299	Thank you, Mr President. In response to what Minister Spirtz said earlier about the fact that he is pleased to see the country coming out of the third memorandum, I would say he forgot to tell us who brought the third memorandum. I should also like to say to him that he is lying about us dating, because he knows very well that they have voted for a fourth memorandum that binds the country by 2023 and has it in custody by 2020. Well, obviously, the Minister is forgetting it. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now discussing the third budget of SYRIZA - ANEL, a budget based on the same failed political recipe: excessive austerity, wage cuts and pensions and social benefits. It is 1.9 billion to account for the reductions in pensions, wages, social benefits and new taxes that it imposes. That's the budget. One hundred and forty thousand of our retired fellow citizens will lose the CSCE. The benefits of a three-tier and multi-tier family are reduced. You are therefore deleting all the efforts made by the previous governments to support these families. Otherwise you do social policy, but that doesn't upset your sleep. Your chairs are fine. You're reducing medical expenses by 15%. They won't be evicted anymore. This is something that concerns all of us, especially the elderly, our weakest fellow citizens, so that not only is tax deductibility, but tax evasion also increased. Of course, the insurance contributions for freelance professionals are even higher once again in the new way of calculating them. You're reducing, Mr. Minister, half the heating allowance. Ladies and gentlemen, I live and I am elected to Kastoria, an area of our country with almost eight months of winter and difficult weather. This year, due to the indifference or incompetence of the government, the inhabitants of the remote villages of Kastoria did not even get the wood they were entitled to make in winter. Now you're down to half the already chopped heating allowance. When we gave 210m euros a subsidy for heating oil, you accused us of dying of mangostenes and cold. Now those who then yelled and go out on the windows, warm up in their chairs? What's going on? At the same time there is no design in my area for the construction of natural gas distribution networks. I didn't hear Mr. Spirtzi say that in the announcements. He obviously forgot. Only promises and lies. The Prime Minister, Mr. Tsipras in Kozani, came to the conference on the productive reconstruction of the region of Western Macedonia. And what he didn't! That it's going to happen to Castoria, she says - land port. Instead, they take the lake. They take her to the Region of Central Macedonia, in Thessaloniki. That's where he'll manage - he says - the lake. The Prime Minister himself - and I have his speech, if you like, to present it in the Minutes of the House - to the three hundred and ninety members of the Youth Farmers' Programme - that remains, to make the farmers up there and five months have passed and still nothing has been done - that they will be included - says - in vegetable beans! Lies. I have tabled two questions to the Minister for Rural Development on these issues, but you have also made the Prime Minister lie. The Prime Minister himself? It is the continuation of the same catastrophic policy, followed from 2015 onwards, a policy that has plunged Greece into stagnation and held it firmly in the recession, a policy that has led hundreds of thousands of young children to leave our country and has deprived the smile and optimism of the great majority of the Greek people. And no matter how much the government is trying to convince us that this surplus, which it distributes, is a result of the growth dynamics of the economy, citizens are not convinced. Everyone realises that over-performance of public finances is not due to the sudden rise in the growth machine. It is because of a brutal, excessive taxation, primarily of the middle class, of the taxpayers, who have been called upon to bear the heavy burden of this violent fiscal adjustment. And yet, SYRIZA - ANEL colluding with an incredible obesity celebrates. And the Minister who votes with heart pain, who was here a while ago, and he celebrates. It no longer bothers the government about anything. He's not chewing at all. He has no moral barrier. Rare intervention in justice is indicative. It is a government that tries to create a special regime, which has no respect for democratic values, which must have a modern European state. In the government, it is enough for the good words of our lenders, who are now making a headline in your party body, "AGEY". From the 'Go back, Mrs Merkel' to 'Germans are our friends', a delusional road is. Ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of all this, it is clear that a prerequisite for us to get out of the crisis is political change. Because this government neither wants nor can act on reforms and lead the country to a real exit from the crisis and the Memorandums. A change in government is needed. There needs to be a government responsible, with social sensitivity and a realistic programme, which will again give credibility to the country. Greece needs the government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u300	Mr. Karagiannis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u301	Ladies and gentlemen, a budget is among other things a dynamic and evolving relationship. It combines the restrictions in the past with the government's economic decisions for the present and future. Decisions should aim at macroeconomic stability, strengthening development and social protection. As far as restrictions are concerned, they are reflected in the timeless sufferings of the Greek economy, the causes of the crisis and the Memorandumary Obligations that have led us to the policies of the previous governments. When the Greek economy in times of growth in the years to come produced deficits instead of surpluses, it is impossible to invoke the Kenyan policy to increase state expenditure in the crisis. And that is what those who today are calling us for a social policy deficit are well aware. As they also know, these surpluses are intended to cover higher costs in times of crisis. Under these restrictions, the government is invited to make its decisions on the 2018 budget. This means an effort to balance between immediate needs and short-term objectives. That balance shall be sufficiently reflected in that plan. The 2018 budget, based on the costs per Ministry and Decentralised Administration, creates the conditions for stabilisation, productive reconstruction and support for social policy. Support for the agri-food sector, the main pillar of productive reconstruction, will make a significant contribution to the country's level of self-sufficiency in food and will reduce the gap in trade balance. The extroversion of the Greek economy will help innovative businesses and industries, with integrated high technology. At the same time, the conditions are being created for a stable, competitive and simplified investment environment, aimed at attracting direct foreign investment and developing international cooperation and partnerships. We should, however, further improve the relationship between risk and reward, because the risk remains high for long-term investors. Improving economic indicators, modernising public administration, stable tax, transparency in public procurement, simplifying investment processes, new financing instruments, e-business creation and intensive investment effort will continuously improve the country's investment climate. The positive developments in the euro area and the development of the global economy, which will have a positive impact on its exports, should prompt us to direct structural and institutional reforms aimed at improving productivity, international competitiveness and growth. The apparent in the short term boosting demand should aim at the most need-driven populations, because there is always a risk, due to the imbalances of the Greek economy, feedback, victorious circles, deficits and recession. Thus, the vulnerable social groups, who have been particularly affected by the crisis, are rightly supported. Here is the important difference in terms of the neoliberal monetarist policies, which have dissolved the social state throughout Europe and have led to today's European deadlocks, major inequalities and Euroscepticism. But the way to recovery is long and painful. The effort to combat tax evasion and corruption should strengthen, as should the reorganisation of the public sector. At the same time, when the Treaties allow it to reduce the taxation of natural and legal persons, in order to support entrepreneurship and especially the small and medium-sized Greek business. These are complementary measures and not substitutes for the effort to stimulate demand and support citizens at the current juncture. However, in order to achieve reforms and ensure overall prosperity, social cooperation and cohesion are needed. Studies show a positive correlation between social cohesion and the quality of institutions on the one hand and systematic development and economic equality on the other. The 2018 budget respects the above principles and follows rationally the existing restrictions. Finally, we must not forget that crises always involve the possibility of something new. It is up to us to take advantage of this opportunity, away from micro-political logic and purpose. The exit from the crisis is a national case. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u302	Mr Ilhan Ahmet has the floor from the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u303	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, Mr President, I would like to concentrate on my speech during this year's budget, in addition to the financial figures, which have been analysed to the full by our rapporteur, by our parliamentary representative, as well as other colleagues, in Thrace and my prefecture, due to the timeliness and all the events that have taken place in the last few days. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, today we have also seen in the Committee on Forestry that both I and the Democratic Compact, when you bring in a bill concerning minority, are in a positive direction and has a progressive sign, we are not only supporting it, but we are also making substantial proposals so that democracy can be improved and this House must be upgraded. But you, unfortunately, did not do the same in the past few years, even as far as the minority itself is concerned. When in this House a few years ago, a bill came from the Ministry of Education - in particular the Minister of Education at the time, Mr. Loverdus - we did not have the same approach to this great reform that wanted to do that bill. Why would I mention that? Because, not only did you shout and say that this legislation on education will not work on the minority, but you were trying in every way to undermine it. But today we see, after a number of years, that the bill was finally on a proper basis. And I tell you - before I go to the individual issues of Thrace and my prefecture - that on minority issues, human rights issues, as a progressive party, we are here to help you, Minister. We're here to help the government. We also have good intentions to have the know-how, and we do not have the populism, which you might have in the past few years. You can bring to the House any unfinished business you think there are either mufts or taboos and must be solved. You can bring it here in the Greek Parliament and in dialogue with all the parties, with legal representatives, with us MPs - all four and other colleagues - to resolve it with a realism. My county accepted the Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras twice. One time it came, and unfortunately, we were not able to get a single promise for Rhodope. And the second time, at the regional conference that, unfortunately, Rhodope - I'm talking about Rhodope, especially - she stayed without taking her share. I am telling you three, four simple examples, because I have heard Mr Spirtzi here before. He said about the vertical axis. First of all, there is the railway station between Bulgaria and Komotini Makaza, who is not even working or can pass the buses. It is a repeated requirement for Chambers to be allowed and we have tabled questions to the House about this, but unfortunately there is no government response. This results in Komotini’s commercial world and professionals being deprived of income and there is no movement of tourists. Secondly, the geothermal fields. There is nothing to do with this. There is nothing on minority issues too. Did we say before that saria could have been a positive measure, but is that the only problem with the minority? Minority doesn't have financial problems? Minority has no unemployment problems, like the majority, of course? Do you know that Rodopi prefecture has the highest rate of unemployment in Greece? It is one of the prefectures, with the highest unemployment rate. And especially in the minority, do you know that unemployment reaches 90% and 80% of women? Would you not sit down and make a development plan, a strategy, see how we will strengthen tobacco producers, how we will strengthen farmers, how can we make use of multiculturalism and make a plan, in order to upgrade the living standard of the whole prefecture, regardless of religion or origin? Did you ask for help from the democratic, progressive groups or from the Greek Parliament and did you find an obstacle? No, of course not. Apart from some wings - although they are few - I do not think there is any obstacle to that. So we must not give anyone the right to come and question any situation in Thrace. I think, Mr Minister and fellow Members, that we should not just focus on satellite antennas, as happened last year. Is it good for people to watch Greek state television, but is that the only request? In other words, it is not just a question of establishing the sharia. There must be an integrated intervention. We, as Democratic Reconciliation, have the progressive views, we have the knowledge, we have - I believe - all the good will as Members of the Greek Parliament, as citizens of this region that we are suffering - in Thrace - we want to help it, we want to get it out of poverty, from all the misery and become a station of an open democratic society. I'm proud to live in Thrace. I live with my friends, I grew up there, I lived there, but I want my Thrace to grow as it needs to be developed and to be a model of open democratic society in Greece and Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u304	Thank you. Mr. Pallis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u305	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the state budget is a dynamic debate and an absolute policy. I will use part of my speech, because I am forced to restore the truth, in response to the inaccuracies that have been heard by my fellow Member of the New Democracy. Talks like: "The local economy is maring, tourism is being destroyed" and much more. If it refers to the 30% drop, which is evidenced by the study carried out on behalf of the Northern Aegean Region - and we all know that it is not the administration of the Northern Aegean region of our own political administration - which concerns data by the end of 2016, it has good. But we are talking about next year's budget. There's a year behind my colleague. If he has seen the same study, he says that short-term trade is expected to increase and GDP boost as a result of the increase in government spending. When we try to document something, it's good to know how we document it. He referred once again to New Democracy's immigration and policy, saying about open borders, ignoring what has happened to the world and the wider region in recent years. He was right to say that local society is not owned by xenophobia and racism, but xenophobia and racism are promoted by our colleague's rhetoric, in the way it has been placed all this time. I will not comment on what he mentioned about the visits to our country. I have not heard any part of the world that the Pope visited and local society took it as a negative one. I haven't heard of a place in the world. In the end, a numerical comparison of the day, of the moment. He then came and supplemented the rhetoric, which New Democracy colleagues have been focusing on in relation to VAT for months and referred to HNVIA for earthquakes. You are aware, Mr President, that the Independent Public Income Authority is an independent authority and has said publicly in the past days that there is no problem for our earthquake citizens with the HICP. Why do you make one day's policy and everything that works? With regard to VAT, we did not vote for the abolition of VAT together with other tough measures, said my colleague. The ones that sent me Hardouvel's mail for the next ones as a dowry. In addition, you left the funds empty. Because we all know how the country was found, because you knew you were leaving. The proposal for the amendment comes hypocritically. And I am going to ask, since my fellow Member spoke with the passing data, that is not a unilateral energy that will destroy the country? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Have you brought an amendment which is inexpensive and irresponsible?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u306	Don't go, I'll see you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u307	Of course, Mr. Colleague, I'll be here. Ladies and gentlemen, two years before the signature of the medium-term, you committed yourself to budgetary credibility. The cost of macroeconomic adjustment and support for vulnerable economic populations has been allocated. In this budget, I would expect the opposition to talk about fundamentally how we see our country in the coming years, understanding the whole context. These were the priorities that we set out in the government's general budgetary policy in the difficult years that we have been experiencing. My conviction is, therefore, that this is shown in the 2018 budget presented, the last, as it is, in the Memorandum. Within this budget we see a government which is aware of the criticality of the situation, a government called upon within a system of economic and political crisis to make the most of the effort to avoid the worst. We know, like all citizens, that there are no alternatives. In any case, we're working on what we have. This is happening by practicing wherever possible and comforting where reforms have not yet yielded fruit or affect people who find it difficult. The public space has been restricted in recent years. The State has abandoned certain areas. This is a reality and we all know it, and we need to see it as it is. Ten years is the reality. Where have you been all these years? Well, let's sit down and see the essence. In the very short time that I have left, I'm going to talk about local government, because things have been heard. We all know that he is the great patient of the state and, finally, the citizens pay for it in daily life with the legislation we have had, with the reduction of qualified personnel. So will we look at the fact that in recent years we have been waiting for useful financial instruments in the new legislative framework for new and salvage tools to strengthen management and technical competence? I will not dwell on 0.5% of the increase in own resources. But let us also talk about the new NRP, talk about the municipality's margins, see special funds that have been set up and I speak of the northern Aegean, and about water projects in the management of solid waste and sewage, see infrastructure projects, which in the years that were there for money, you did hiking, you did works, without the protection of citizens. Actions in the social field. Yes, we must open up with programs, stations, and they must go as many children as possible to nurseries. We need society right now. The next few years, I wish it'd be better. Targeted interventions in a specific area. We experience it on the Aegean islands. And in order not to abuse Members' time any more, the caravan, ladies and gentlemen, will continue to move on and the dogs will scream, because your screaming has been learned by the world, they have nothing to offer. They trust us, because they know we're the only solution to get the country back on track and have a better future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u308	Mr Katsafandos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u309	Thank you, Mr President. Finally, Mr President, you will vote for the increased VAT on Mytilini. That is what I understood, despite the criticism you have made. And if you ask us 'Where were we?' We were here, Mr. Colleague, fighting for Greece of dignity, taking a country with recession and handing it over to you with growth. We took a Greece with huge primary deficits and handed it over to you with surpluses and you were in the squares, feeding other streets and making yourself comfortable with these chairs and you don't think to break out. That is the reality, Mr Colleague, and that is what your former partners are telling you. The ones you're sending MATs to the pacifist courts to kick them out. They tell you that. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, as much as you are trying to show up as magicians with gifts, unfortunately, you are nothing but simple charlatans, all you bring to the Greek people is taxes, cutbacks and measures. You have the courage to tell us that it is the last Memorandum budget when you yourself have committed the country by 2022 and then your term of primary surpluses of 3.5%, when both pensions and tax reductions will come from 2019. Really, who do you think you're making fun of? Us, the Greek people, yourself? Are you celebrating today for what? Are you celebrating the ESS, which you are cutting off tens of thousands of pensioners, for widow’s pensions, which you are cutting or for the new taxes you impose? What are you celebrating for, ladies and gentlemen? In the last two years, the country has been constantly dragging behind in its positions of competitiveness and transparency. That is what all the international organisations attest to. But they also give you a first, a pan-European first. We are the first country to impose new taxes. Do you celebrate, why does 50% of Greek citizens owe tax of EUR 100 billion? When you received the country's luck, the private debt was 50 billion. Four million two hundred and sixty - seven thousand people are the ones who owe tax. In a million, seizures have already been made, followed by the rest. So, is this Greece you want to convince us that it will come out of the memos? Greece foreclosures and auctions? From the 'no house in the hands of a banker', with very ease, we have led to auctions, unfortunately, with horizontal criteria, which are at risk even of the first low-quality objective and commercial value. Who prevents you, ladies and gentlemen, from bringing to Parliament the model applied in Cyprus, where the borrower has the opportunity to buy his own loan before he ends up in the hands of a fund? Did the troika force this on you? Because, as has been proved, all the measures are your choice.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u310	Why didn't you?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u311	We had protected our first residence, Mr. Colleague. There was no auction.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u312	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u313	We have asked you to suspend auctions for a two-month period, until a specific legislative framework is created, so that homes of poor people do not come to the hammer. You ignored us provocatively. And all that pain, all that impoverishment and the exorbitant burdens that Greek society has suffered have any impact on them? After two unjustified memos and three years of recession, you tell us that we are now finally entering growth. I would like to give you an example of an area in which our country, the rural one, could take the lead. For 2016, as the European Statistical Office informed us, we have a decrease of 4.8% in the value of agricultural production, at the same time as countries such as Slovakia, Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Croatia, which have recently entered the European Union, have a marked increase. Ladies and gentlemen, 1.9 billion are the measures that this budget brings, which are added to the 2.7 billion that were taken in 2017. If in all of this we also sum up what you have legislated for 2019 and 2020, it is over 14 billion of the measures brought by the Government of Tsipras - Kammenos. This account is sent to the citizens. At the same time, the Minister for Finance, Mr Chakalotos, pleads satisfaction with this policy, even if his colleagues are kidding him, such as Mr Philis. He says he likes to put taxes in the middle class, because that's how he thinks it helps the weakest. Only the measures of 2018 and 2017, which are its own invention, mainly affect the weak. But let us see what this budget includes to see who it affects. One hundred and forty thousand of our fellow citizens will lose the EASA, which in 2019 will be abolished for all. Remove the 10% deduction from personal income tax for medical expenses in 2017, which means an additional charge of EUR 121 million for taxpayers and especially pensioners. You are abolishing the withholding tax of 1.5% currently in force for three million employees and pensioners to clear their tax declarations. You charge property owners, not only by adjusting the objective values, but because for the first time they will be taxing goodwill on sales, even if they are few. Reduce half the heating allowance, with nothing to predict for the regions, which have extreme weather effects. You hit our islanders, since for the first time, thirty two Aegean islands will pay increased VAT. We protected it, too, Minister. But you were the ones who were supposed to make "heroic negotiation" and Mr Kammenos would resign from the government. You reduce the allowances of threeteen and tents of families, indifferent to the great wound that our country has and is no more than demographic. And of course, you are even more increasing the insurance contributions to your favorite class of free professionals, obviously to punish them, those who have still been able to live. That is what you are asking to vote on, ladies and gentlemen. We are giving you this budget. Hold him and stay with your illusions. What we are asking, ladies and gentlemen, is that we move forward and take the country to elections. We're asking for elections. We are asking for elections, so that the Greek citizen can again be proud, elections to stop the new Greeks leaving and go abroad, elections to stop being in the vicious circle of recession, elections to come a new plan, a realistic plan, which will bring hope and joy to the lips of Greek citizens, elections to be and continue to be high-headed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u314	Mr. Antoniou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u315	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2018 budget, which we are debating today, is a critical and hub budget, a budget that signals the transition of the Greek economy and society to a new situation, as in August 2018 the current adjustment programme is ending and the country is finally coming out of the close creditors' committee. The government resulting from the September 2015 elections has undertaken, following the mandate of the Greek people, to manage a difficult economic situation, which, with responsible financial management and social sensitivity, has consistently implemented. We have inherited a situation, denounced a bankrupt economy, which your chaotic fiscal and economic policy inherited the country and the Greek people. This has been recorded in the collective consciousness and does not change whatever terrain and any rhetoric you are treating. PASOK and the New Democracy led the country into bankruptcy. I do not want to remind you of the general government deficit that reached 15.1% of GDP in 2009, following ongoing revisions, the public debt that was ineffective and the exclusion from international money markets. The first and second Memorandum marked the country's biggest economic disaster in a peaceful period after World War II: GDP reduction in the first quarter, growth in unemployment to 27%, three hundred thousand enterprises in a 'buket'. I would remind you of these, because so far you have not made fundamental self-criticism for your economic things and you have not asked for a single apologies from the Greek people. However, let's see the results of your policy from 2010 to 2014, and if the sacrifices of the Greek people have taken place. The European Court of Auditors published the special report on the three adjustment programmes a few weeks ago. The findings of the two programmes, the first and second Memorandums, are catapult. No objective has been achieved for the macroeconomic results for the total forecasts, which are particularly negative, such as forecasts for growth - or recession - forecasts for primary surpluses, investment and employment. But also in the area of reforms, you have already failed, such as modernisation, the collection of state and public administration, the fight against tax evasion, tax compliance and VAT collection. Also, with the banks you continued the same policies, to keep, despite the recapitalisations, the same administrations as the banks went bankrupt, which in many cases continued the same favourable policy and the same licensing regime for "local" entrepreneurs and SMEs, without basic safeguards and with a guarantee-air, as they have confessed to the committee responsible. The European Court of Auditors' finding is - I read it out - that 'the corporate governance of banks remained at the same levels, before memoranda and levels'. I am giving a parentheses here to remind you that the only attempt you made on the red loans was the Law Treasury, No.4307/2014. This law has failed miserably and has remained practically inactive. It is a question of whether there were a number of ten companies in the whole. In short, the European Court of Auditors notes that even with the first two Memorandums you have come to mind and continue to go along with the same culture in policy: horizontal cuts in wages, pensions and social expenditure. The only thing you were successful was the reduction of labour costs and the dismantling of labour relations, as collective agreements were abolished, expansion, the principle of favourable regulation. I will end here, with the conclusions of the report. After all, its conclusions will be discussed at a special meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs. Ladies and gentlemen, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, with the agreement of August 2015, significantly reduced the obligations and targets for primary surpluses so that the implementation is weaker and also achieved significant debt restructuring. We, these goals are implemented through a social protection net that we built with social solidarity income, the social dividend of 2016 and the social dividend of 2017. These resources have been saved mainly by tax compliance, tax evasion, better VAT collection, import of plastic money. They are resources from various lists, and above all from the voluntary statement of income, as well as through the overview of primary expenditure from which we saved EUR 320 million, which is available to strengthen the social budget. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy, by abandoning the catastrophe account, in which it was all over the previous period and seeing that the country is back on its feet, is returning and exiting from the memoranda, is constantly engaged in a crescendo of a special liberal populism, supporting its account in a policy mix with expenditure reductions and tax reliefs. With conservative calculations, the program announced by Mr. Mitsotakis at the IGC is estimated to be over 4.5 billion. So the New Democracy has the basic obligation, if it wants to call itself a serious party, to present to the Greek people what costs will be cut and where, given that the institutions and the IMF now admit that primary operating costs of the public and, in particular, social costs do not suffer any further reductions. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress that the third assessment is officially closed at the Eurogroup in January. Following the closure of the third assessment and as agreed, consultations will begin in the first quarter of 2018 with institutions implementing the second debt relief package in order to enhance its sustainability, with a view to the annual mixed financing needs remaining below 15 % of GDP over the medium term and below 20% in the long term. I recall that short-term relief measures had been initiated by the beginning of 2017. We are progressing consistently and planning to implement our policy. The aim is, as I said before, to exit the memorandum and the committee in August 2018, an exit aimed at relaunching money markets, clean, safe, without a credit line, which would mean any new obligations. The new period opened in our country after August 2018 should not be allowed to remind anything, ladies and gentlemen, of the past. We must not repeat the same policies and attitudes that led us to bankruptcy and to the memoranda. I hope, although I doubt the positions I have heard, that all the political forces have been mindful of the adventure and destruction experienced by the Greek people in previous years. We now have to design with basic consensus the next steps, plan and implement a model of sustainable and sustainable development, based on knowledge, innovation and extroversion, a model of fair growth that will disperse throughout society and not to the few and powerful. This is our plan and we believe that the Greek people will trust us to implement it. Thank you, Mr President, and your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u316	Mr. Cassidy has the floor from Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u317	I am watching with anger the government actors constantly repeat the same lie, the same misery, the same 'caseta', if you wish, for a final Memorandum budget. They remind us of these lies that were said in the 1915 elections, which Tsipras said about duuli, "Go back, Merkel" and all this nonsense that Greece and the Greek people paid for very expensively. They remind me of Samaras and the ridiculous things he was saying that "I shave day by day the memorials", all these lies, all this terrible policy of the unconstitutional arch that will lead us, not, of course, to an exit from the memorials, but to forty years. Forty years of monuments we will have with Tsipras, Mitsotakis and all this corrupt political system. And that, of course, is not my phrase. Forty years, the tops of the international tumultural are also speaking, those who have now subjugated Greece and run Greece. I shall read here the words of some of these factors - yesterday, previous statements - such as Declan Costello of the Commission: 'The economic recovery of Greece requires structural changes for many more years, especially in taxation, investment and justice'. We will be imposed by international loan sharks on how justice is to be given to Greece. That is why the administration of justice has arrived in such a dark mess, that we have permanently political interventions, from above and from governments to judges. I will say the words of another factor, of Giamaroli, of the wig, of this ridiculous type, who is in charge of the ESM in Athens. These ridiculous guys, unfortunately, run Greece today with wigs, see them in youtube and laugh. At one time, the Turks entered Greece with Muhammad the Orthodox and a million army and paid a heavy blood tax to subjugate this country, which was in fact never subjugated and always resisted. Today, we have been subjected to something ridiculous, some funny factors of the International Monetary Fund, the ESM, such as this one, who said: "The loans expire after more than forty years. The ESM will be in Greece for many years". Forty years, therefore, with Tsipras, Mitsotakis and the corrupt, monumental, anti-constitutional system that has subjugated Greece. It was this notorious investment conference, Capital Link, from there I took the concrete phrases I read, where international loan sharks spoke about investment opportunities in Greece. And what are these foreign investment opportunities? Purchase of red loans - that is, they will take the homes of the poor world, take the houses of the Greeks, who will be forced to leave the country, so that the country will then be built up by illegal immigrants - as well as privatizations to PPC and energy. Be careful, we are talking about the absolute sale of Greece's national wealth. Privatisations in PPC and energy, the most neuro-algal sectors for Greece's national sovereignty, go into foreign hands. That is why the People's Association - Golden Dawn, the third political force in the country - today the third political power, we demand much more, we demand the liberation of our country - which is in a regime of absolute exclusion from the whole system of pimps of information, which, in cooperation with the governmental benches and with all parties, has excluded the voice of Golden Dawn and no one listens to the positions of Golden Dawn, because the Golden Dawn has positions. Because the Golden Dawn, when it governs the country, will rely on the principles of nationalism for the economy, that is to say, a budget, not like the budget of poverty, the impoverishment and the tradition of national wealth in international turmoil, as SYRIZA presents today and the other day the New Democracy. It will present a budget based on national production, based on the increase in gross national product, based on Greece's national wealth. And here I must present a few points from this truly antimony programme of the Golden Dawn, a programme that, on its front, contains 'national self-sufficiency', self-sufficiency in the basic living of our people. Our national economic development plan is based on an increase in gross national product based on production and Greece has the potential to produce. Here I will deal with the issue of hydrocarbons and I will repeat the words of highly specialized Greek universities, people who as technocrats have demonstrated the potential of our national economy. I have reiterated earlier the name of Professor Zelelidis, the professor of geology at the University of Patras, of the teachers of the Aristotle University. Today I will rely on the studies of Professor Antonis Foskolos and on the writings of Ilias Konofagou, Director General for Research and Development of Hydrocarbons in ELPE. In the south of Crete, therefore, on the basis of these serious Greek technocrats, it is possible to produce 3.5 trillion cubic metres of gas. In twenty-five years' time there can be profits of about 300 billion euros. The same calculation has been made by the "DEUTSCHE BANK" for a long time because Germans, Russians and Americans have calculated these deposits and have cost them, and that is why the memorandum has been imposed in Greece. To the east, in the Herodotus basin, in its Greek department, there are possible reserves of 2 trillion cubic metres of gas. Greece has been able to supply industry throughout Europe for decades, since we are starting to produce. No mention is made of this neuro-algal region south of Crete either in the budget, no response is received to parliamentary scrutiny, where I have asked questions on the use of these deposits on several occasions. On the contrary, we have today's budget of poverty and impoverishment. Greece is in the first triad of impoverished countries of the European Union. We are one of the three countries with the greatest deprivations, together with Bulgaria and Romania. That's the official evidence I'm filing in the House. One in three Greeks, 33%, in recent years, 2016-2017, was unable to enjoy basic materials, but also social goods. We are in the first three months of deprivation in the European Union, together with Romania and Bulgaria. And expand more. At the same time, the country's national defence is, in fact, being perpetrated. The budget only provides for EUR 3 billion for national defence and, of course, runs counter to the Golden Dawn programme, which talks about self-sufficiency in weapon systems, which speaks of co-production of weapon systems. We could today, instead of nicking the Greek Weapons and Vehicle Industry, instead of putting a lock on the Greek Defence Systems, we could have a co-production of AK47 or AK74 rifles - the most modern version - to have even a S-400 missile with Russia. Why is the Turkish industry, while a large part of their population living below the poverty line, at the same time being able to produce armoured? Why should the Turks produce tanks and Greece have no chance of developing its defence industry, and our defence industry has been whacked because of the corrupt administrations that the political system imposed?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u318	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u319	I conclude with the revelations Muzala, which says that the European Union is cutting off the money it once gave Greece on illegal immigration. Here, then, I had the news, through parliamentary control, that EUR 1.8 billion is being wasted every year on illegal immigration. These, as you can see, based on the latest evidence, which comes to light, will pay all Greeks in his pocket. At the same time, Tusk puts an end to proportionality. There will be no proportionate absorption of illegal immigrants based on the population of the countries, that is, the majority of them will remain in Greece. This is the objective: Ghettoization, abundance of Greece and the illegal majority within the country. That's why the budget hits the three-teen Greeks, hits the many Greeks. That's why the social dividend was taken by strangers. Golden Dawn had very wisely predicted and did not vote for the social dividend, for few were the Greeks who benefited from this measure. The Albanians, who have made the money in Albania and appear here as indestructible, took the social dividend together with the Roma and the Greeks are excluded. This is a special racism against the Greeks, which the Golden Dawn will strike when it commands the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u320	Mr. Constantine has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u321	Thank you, Mr President. I'm just going to make a little comment. About the 3.4 million fellows who get the dividend must be Roma and foreigners, illegal immigrants, etc. It's different the numbers we have in our head.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u322	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u323	That's what you said. It's not about us. That's what you said. It's 3.4 million. There are so many here and I don't know about it? Well, people know. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2018 budget could easily be termed the last Memorandum. The circle of memorials we inherited from PASOK and New Democracy arrives here somewhere. For a third consecutive year, the government manages to catch budgetary targets, even giving back social dividends to the most needy citizens. A dividend that New Democracy did not vote for last year put a mind on and voted on, with the pressure of the world. In a context of its catastrophe, all the economic indicators reflect in the most emphatic way the growth potential of the Greek economy. In 2017 - year of growth after many years - we had three consecutive positive quarters. In the first seven months of 2017, exports increased 18%, reaching the highest level in the last decade. Industrial activity increased by 5.3%, foreign direct investment increased by 161% over the previous year, tourism this year broke every record and our country made two successful exits to the markets in the ten-year bond, falling below 5%. The main thing - because this is going to be a great deal of trouble - is what the government has done with regard to unemployment, which some people cannot understand. From 27% it fell to 21% and our 2018 forecasts are below 20%. We didn't bring unemployment to Greece. New Democracy and PASOK brought her to know what's going on. We're reducing it. The financial adjustment of the years 2015-2018 has also been accompanied by the gradual strengthening of the protection of the most vulnerable categories. Because neoliberal policy, especially the New Democracy, had forgotten these people. The financial adjustment has been imposed by the conditions created by the gentlemen I have said. First they mismanaged the country for years - for decades - and the deadlocked policies brought them to the 2009 crisis. They took tons of bile against the citizens, filling up their consciences, through the notorious slogan "we ate them together". Well, gentlemen, we didn't eat them together. You probably ate them or mismanaged three decades or more. At the same time, they tried to save the elites, which we are seeing even now - is their last attempt, since they have no support from the world, only from the channels can have - to the detriment of the workers. And there was the austerity in the popular layers of it. In the years to come, the pace of economic growth, which is provided for in the medium-term programme, is sufficient to ensure that that financial area is immediately applied to the reductions, which we all regard as quite rightly, of the tax rates. Ladies and gentlemen, the technical points in the budget have been debated. But it is worth mentioning a point from which it turns out to be how homeless we are. This is called ‘insurance funds’. Estimate for 2017: 505 million, minus 198 million on a financial basis. Provision for 2018, Mr Stakoura, which you know very well financially, 930 million and 859 million on a financial basis. You didn't even think of this in your deepest dream. Therefore, the surplus is improved over 1 billion compared to 2017 for time. In closing, I will remind you of a phrase of Jesus Christ. He said: "Truly I say to you, it is difficult for a rich man to enter heaven..." - which you defend - "...It is easier to pass a camel through the hole opened by the needle than the rich one to enter heaven." You're not going to heaven. Sadly, gentlemen, you managed to intrigu the words of the Lord, creating your own tax havens... [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] ...the place where you squeeze over the size of your political immorality, when you do not pay your "possibly" relatives. As much as you undermine the future of this place with keyhole policies, with murders of political characters - and we know how some systemic media work, because I am also passionate - next August to see what you will say when you vote on the non-reminder budget. Let me see, will you vote for him or not? Gentlemen, Greece is changing page. We also give you your popular victories, because it is also known that arrogant and narcotics have a false stimulus of "e" at regular intervals. We are waiting for you next year to vote for the other budget, which will be out of the question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u324	Mr Metarakis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u325	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to ask the majority Members, when they refer to offshore, to remember that their own party, AUGIA, has a key shareholder of such an offshore company. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating another Memorandum of Understanding. Despite so many sacrifices of the Greek people, the third in turn budget of SYRIZA - ANEL is another hit on the incomes of wage earners, professionals, entrepreneurs and pensioners, while the Samara government received the country with a recession of almost 10% and delivered it with a growth of 1%, received the country with a primary deficit and delivered it with a primary surplus, received the country with a deficit in the current account and delivered it with a surplus for the first time since 1948, received a country outside the markets and returned it to the low-interest markets, reduced the VAT on the focus, the oil tax on heating, insurance contributions and distributed a dividend, not by overtaxation, but by the development that the Greek economy had at the time. You, in your disastrous policy, received a country with growth and in 2015 and in 2016 you returned to the recession and this year you didn't catch half the target, which you themselves put 12 months ago in this Chamber when we voted on the 2017 budget. SYRIZA Government has cost the Greek people 100 billion. You have lost two hundred and twenty thousand jobs compared to the 2014 Commission forecasts. Unfortunately, the people believed in your lies. Greece has been left to populism, first of the countries of Europe and is still paying the price. However, the exit from the magnificence of populism is near, because Nea Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis bring the country along the road of truth and logic. Ladies and gentlemen, the third SYRIZA - ANEL budget is also a taxer. It increases to unprecedented levels in principle of indirect taxes, which are the most unfair socially. It continues the disastrous policy of over-primary primary surpluses, which come, not from growth, but from the destruction and poverty of the middle class. The victim of your ideas is our islands. All islanders know that the former government of New Democracy has in practice protected the island VAT. Hardouvel's e-mail, which some of your colleagues have now mentioned, on page 27, I urge you to read it again - was holding the insular VAT as a acquis communautaire and excluded its change under the Financial Adjustment Programme. It was Mr. Tsipras who sent a letter to the institutions. Before the 2015 referendum, when you accepted few measures as the last compromise proposal, you proposed the abolition of the island VAT, this insular VAT, which you forgot to put at EUR 6 billion countermeasures. You forgot two weeks ago to put him in the social dividend. We, as New Democracy, tabled a specific amendment, Minister, and asked for VAT to be extended for another year to the islands. He asked how this would be done. You should have included it in the budget space, which you claim you have from the social dividend. You came to the House and said that you had 1,4 billion budget space and didn't fit 25 million for the islands? This is your priority for island policy. We insist on this proposal and especially on our islands, which are affected by immigration. I want to take the opportunity, as we speak of the islands, of the imminent abolition of the only bank correspondent in Psara. I hear the banks are thinking about closing shops on other islands. They'll find islands without a single store. I propose to the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Island Policy to legislate on ensuring universal access for citizens to the banking system. There must be at least one branch of a bank in each municipality of the country. Thus, with concrete proposals, the New Democracy supports islands. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2018 budget is also a blow to social security. It is the first year of effective application of the Katrugalos Act, which provides for reduced pensions of up to 40%. Since this year, pensioners will see the famous personal difference in their pensions. And the pensioners know that you have already voted from 1-1-2019 to cut EUR 2 billion by Greek pensioners, by abolishing this personal difference. And while you are receiving funds for the minimum guaranteed income, you are cutting off in this budget half a billion euros from the ESA, tax exemptions, heating allowance and social benefits. Your days have increased the risk of poverty among workers. They work and the Greeks are poor with the SYRIZA - ANEL government. Mr. Petropoulos, just here, was celebrating the surpluses of EFKA. However, as the Parliament's Budget Office says - and puts it in introductory form - these come from the 'non-retired pensions', from the'retroactive financing of the two-thirds of the central government budget', from 'a reduction in supplementary pensions of up to 70% and the abolition of social benefits'. He also said Mr. Petropoulos that the cuts are over. Really, ladies and gentlemen? Is the cuts over? Did you forget that you have voted for EUR 2 billion in pension cuts from 1-1-2019 to the fourth memorandum? You're talking about a clear way out, but you've already signed the fourth memorandum's measures, without having any funding for that. And you have been committed for years to impossible surpluses, because you cannot get growth rates, condemning the next generations to misery and poverty recycling. The New Democracy can reverse this destructive policy and build the present and the future that we deserve. We are ready to change Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u326	Mr. Excellency has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u327	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have indeed become commonplace, repeating that this is the last budget for the memoranda. It marks the launch of a new page for the country. The prospect that leads to the exit from the Memorandum of Understanding is now visible. The third assessment is completed in a record place, without any additional financial measure being anticipated, but, on the contrary, with the provision for a significant increase in social spending in the welfare sector. It is now a common admission among European officials, but also a point of reference for numerous publications in the international press, that the Greek economy is on a positive path and that Greece is heading for a new era. After years, this year was the first year of growth with all economic sizes - exports, industrial activity, foreign direct investment, tourism - to be reflected in a positive figure and the rate of unemployment gradually deviating. So, what are you doing now that numbers clearly illustrate the good course of our government's policy? So, what do you do now that your catastrophe falls into the void and is crushed by the truth of numbers? Try in vain to build news and create issues where they don't exist. You should, however, ask yourself what the results of your policy have been in the forty years of your governance. It is this policy that has led the country to the budgetary committee. What is your attitude towards the country's reconstruction effort? It's the strategy of undermining. It is characteristic, ladies and gentlemen, that the President of your Party does not miss an opportunity with statements from him to the international media, international agencies and talks at international audiences to point out that the conditions for investment are currently not met in Greece. For example, in May in London, before the international rating houses, he predicted that the government would not implement its commitments to lenders, but also to the LSE insisted on calling for elections, inviting the world of the market "to prepare for investment in Greece, but only with its own government". Not to mention last July's meeting with the head of the European Central Bank in Frankfurt. Instead of arguing in favour of the integration of the Greek economy into the quantitative relaxation programme, he said there was no appropriate political environment and climate for an investment explosion in Greece. A lot of examples, ladies and gentlemen, and a little time. At the same time, the Vice-President of your party clearly states that it is not immoral to park one's money in tax havens. It is not immoral, that is, a practice that widens the unequal distribution of wealth! It is not immoral of a practice which facilitates the non-taxation of those money from which we could increase spending on education, health and taxation for the weaker! A phrase can describe your situation: Fantastic friends of investments from the chair of power and proven enemies of investments when you lose the chair. On the one hand, you're urging them not to come in and get their money out. That's not opposition, it's something else. It is obvious that the deprivation syndrome that has caused you to lose power leads to self-destructive tendencies. Let's get this straight. By undermining the country, you undermine yourself. Investments, ladies and gentlemen of the Officerate, are not decided in Piraeus, but are the result of a sound legislative framework, which we have set up, a coherent, coordinated and out-of-revolutionary policy, which we are implementing, and of the constant effort to implement and implement the reforms required to increase the competitiveness of the Greek economy. Our aim is not to invest for a few, chosen and intertwined. Our aim is to promote productive investment, which incorporate innovation, which respect the environment and contribute to the creation of stable and quality jobs. In the short term of our governance, we have implemented substantial reforms that, according to your own governance, were implemented in order to abolish collective agreements, dismissal of civil servants, reductions in wages, pensions and privileges and with a more general dissolution of the health system and expenditure on education. Your governments' policies have left you behind innumerable gaps, which we have come to cover in a series of interventions in all areas of public policy. For example, we reformed the primary health care service system. We proceeded with the integrated institutional intervention in the functioning of the HEIs. We have established a legal framework for regulating the unregulated broadcasting landscape. We're upping public administration. We are broadening individual rights. Ladies and gentlemen, the main pillar of our policy and the focus of our reform efforts is the provision of quality public, free education as a structural element of change, which we are pursuing for the country. Already, with the 2016 budget, we put a brake on the continuous reduction of educational expenditure, with an increase this year of 184 million for education. We thus look at the negative forecast of the previous New Democracy - PASOK government for a continuous reduction in public spending on education, which would be reduced on the basis of this forecast in 2018 by 1 billion. Education expenditure would be 1.99% when today it reaches 2.88% with our own policy. Ladies and gentlemen, for our government the figures and the percentages are not an end. Numbers and percentages are only valued when the sense of law is served, only when the sense of social justice is served. This is reflected in this budget, which also includes the implementation of targeted social protection programmes and the fight against child poverty, such as strengthening family allowances, extending school meals and extending the coverage of nurseries. The above actions with social income of solidarity, which began and is implemented in 2017, strengthen the protection network of the most vulnerable households and form the basis of a credible social state.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u328	Your Excellency, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u329	I shall conclude, Mr President. For you, ladies and gentlemen of Officerial Opposition, a society without inequality is a delusion. With one phrase, a few months ago, your Chief revealed your deepest-rooted perceptions. Did these perceptions lead the country to a dead end and degrade the country day by day with every concept of a social state? Is that why you lied to the Greek people that alternatives do not exist, that everything is a one-way street? So stop imagining four memorials and left-wing parentheses. The parentheses to close should, in principle, open up. We are not dealing here with parentheses, but with the start of a new chapter for the country. Decide. Do you want to be part of this chapter? Do you want to contribute to the formation of the memorial Greece, or do you just want to fill its yellow and black pages? That's your choice. For us, however, it is a one-way path to change a page, to move the country forward and to reconstruct the state on the basis of the principles of transparency, democracy and social justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u330	Mr. Kastoris has the floor from SYRIZA. He's the last speaker for today.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u331	I'll be allowed by the Minister to make a report. He opened up the project debate. It may be, Minister, in the wonderful world of Officerial Response, that the trochomonts regulate the circulation of ravages and torrentials, preventing disasters, but in the real world the supernatural refuses to help magically change things. So, what are the trochonomers doing to you, no matter how magical they have, for a five-year period, from 2010 to 2014, you've spent just 24 million euros all over the country, and at the same time, wet streams and torrents causing your luck? The current government does not believe either in wheelchairs - magicians, which is why it has made more than 342 million euros available in three years for flooding in Attica alone. He doesn't believe in alien devils who go down to Hymittos and advise young people to change sex or believe in the various Houdini who suddenly disappear or display property of millions of euros, who disappear names from the Lagard lists, or who turn these Battlers into popular families, tax-gatherers, consortia. For the real world we live there are the laws of nature and the laws of organized societies. There are causes and consequences. There are numbers and policies behind these numbers. In the budget that we are debating today, these policies may not be clear for some opposition parties, which makes sense, because, although right, they are trying to get out of the left and drown in uncharted and dangerous waters for them. Leave it better. You don't have it with social policy. Take care of something you know. Make offshore. For us, these social policies are clear, honest and honest. Three years now we have been trying to open roads through the ruins of the neoliberal router and to resurrect the country, set it up on its own feet and not on corporations like the past decades. We have slowly managed to put money on the looted funds of the state and the insurance funds. We have succeeded in supporting with pitiful means those policies that had led to poverty under the poverty line. We have managed to give back lost credibility to public health and public education. Today we are able to start the economy machines in the country. We're not celebrating for this. I wish we didn't have to go through this stadium and go straight to the big and nice, to what the Left plans and knows how to build. But we've found all this hard stuff. The parties that have ruled this country for decades and who have been cut out here today as baby virgins and as poorsters of the crime they have created. The Qualified Opposition is being cut that the budget that we are debating today, 2018, is not - it says - redistributive and does not serve social justice. As if we don't know, the people don't know what kind of redistribution its budgets did. 'Law is the law of the aristocrat'. That was her logic, because that's her ideology. Your Chief has explained them very well to us with what he has to do with social arsonism, without shame, said in here. Your Vice-President, the New Democracy, explained to us the lessons of moral evasion in offshore paradises. 'Halate' - says - 'the money from incapacity'. It's hard to understand that they don't spoil the money when you give it to the poor. But we said everyone with their worldview and their ability. We are, as it turns out, capable of completely different things. Even for unforeseen. It has not, you see, anticipated that we would be hard nuts and not give up in the face of difficulties. Wait till we fall over the first day and it's been three years. And change things in the country. They change things in Greece, change things in Europe. And she was left alone to squeeze New Democracy like Cassandra waiting for destruction. Yes, well, this is the last Memorandum budget that opens us up the way to finally go out to the clearing. We fought to prevent worse policies and we will continue to fight even harder to do better policies. Unfortunately, for those who fight us, we still have many strengths. Because, as Palmiro Toliati said, we come from far and far, far away we go without doubt, because our goal is to create a free and equal society in which there is no exploitation of human beings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u332	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Thursday 26 October 2017, Friday 27 October 2017 and Monday 30 October 2017 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u333	The minutes of Thursday 26 October 2017, Friday 27 October 2017 and Monday 30 October 2017 were therefore validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-12-S1-commons.u334	With the consent of the House at 22.59' the meeting is closed for tomorrow, Wednesday 13 December 2017 at 10.00, on the subject of Parliament's work: legislative work, continuation of the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Structuring the State Budget for the financial year 2018".
