ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u1	We do not yet have any colleagues in the Chamber. So, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. The meeting's on. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to announce Thursday 20 July 2017. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Xanthi of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Gregorios Stojannidis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on "Protection of workers and active measures in the event of the payment of accrued earnings". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 1242/18-7-2017 of the New Democracy MP, Maximos Charakopoulos, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Public and private buildings that are occupied - hide official elements - actions for their liberation". 3. The question by number 1217-12-7-2017 of the Vice-President of the Parliament and Deputy Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on "Exploration of thousands of self-employed people in pension". 4. Under No 1223/14-2017, a topical question by MP II Athens of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Helen Zarulia to the Foreign Minister, on the subject: "The World Bank "characterizes" the Aegean in Turkey". 5. The question by No 1248/18-7-2017 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Stavros Tassos, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "To take immediate action to compensate for earthquakes and the damage to Lesvos". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 1243/18-7-2017 of the New Democracy MP, Charalambou Athanasiou, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, about the establishment of a local directorate of FAKA of Lemnos. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 1220/12/2017 of the Member of Parliament, Aetolakaranna of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos, Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "Exemption of lawyers - collaborators of lawyers paid by a service report from the distribution of insurance contributions". 3. The question asked by MP Serres of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mrs Michael Jeleigh to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Measure 6.1 "The Installation of Young Farmers" of PAA 2014-2020. 4. The question by No 1249/18-7-2017, by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Direct connection of the Gadoura dam with the water network of Rhodes". 5. The question by No 1250/18-7-2017 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Mr Ioannis Delis, Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, about the unfair loss of the worker in the company "Karypidis" and the tragic situation of thousands of workers in this company and elsewhere. 6. The Question No 1218-12-7-2017 by Independent MEP Mr. Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "The need for a direct settlement of the red agricultural loans". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. Under number 1112/28-6/2017, a topical question by the Member of Parliament for the Refugee of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas to the Minister for Administrative Reconstruction, on the subject: ‘Is the digital signature to be applied as from 1 July 2017?’ 8. The 1114/29-6-2017 topical question by MP Serres of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.MAR.Michael Jeleli to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The creation of three new toll stations on the road axis Promahona - Serres - Port of Thessaloniki is disastrous for the Prefecture of Serres". 9. The 1183/7-7-2017 topical question by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Helen Zarulia to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Continuing terrorist attacks against MMs from para-state elements". 10. The 1179/6-7-2017 topical question by the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulos to the Minister of the Interior, on the protection and safety of the people of Acharnes. 11. The 1184/7-7-2017 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Antonios Gregos to the Minister of the Interior, on "The desecration of the sacred monument of the Unknown Soldier, as a result of continuous impunity". 12. The 1190/11-7-2017 topical question by MP Drama of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Christos Karagiannides to the Minister of the Interior, on the action of the "United Maiandrian Nationalists" and "Combat 18 Hellas" in Menidia. 13. Observations of the Court of Justice The 1212/11-7-2017 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "A shameful problem with drinking water in many villages of the Municipality of Mykes in the Regional Unit Xanthi". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by Mr Isona Fotidas to the Minister of Culture and Sport on the subject: 'The excavations in Ancient Eliq will be 'bavourish' this year. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Odyssea Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of the Interior, on "Construction of Provincial Road Paraleps - Tripotama". 3. The Question No 4668-331-32017 by Independent MP from Athens, Mr. Theocharis, Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning “the risk of not paying a hundred and fifty thousand outstanding pensions from the ECA. ” At this point, let me make a statement to this House: The Standing Committee on Production and Trade presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport: "New regulatory framework for urban transport in the Regional Unit of Thessaloniki and other provisions". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport: "New regulatory framework for urban transport in the Regional Unit of Thessaloniki and other provisions". The draft law was characterised by the Government as an urgent one, and the competent Standing Committee on Production and Trade, by a majority, accepted its designation as an urgency, in accordance with Rule 110 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting of 17 July 2017 to discuss the draft law at a meeting and if necessary, by plenary decision, at two single meetings on the principle, articles and amendments. At this point I can explain to you what we mean: I have seen that the committee has spoken with twelve colleagues. They usually speak about so many in plenary. With the change in the Rules of Procedure - I tell you to have it in mind in the future, colleagues - speaking time is five minutes and speaking time for the rapporteurs, speakers and parliamentarians is twelve minutes, from fifteen speakers. Time has decreased. If, then, when Mr Karamanlis comes down from Step by step, 20 colleagues, plus the time of the Minister for his prototype, and if necessary secondary, we have done our calculations and around 18.00' -19.00', we can be done, showing a tolerance. Because today is the first day of application of the new Rules of Procedure in five minutes, we will also show the rapporteurs a slight tolerance. So I hope that if there are no conflicts, we will then go, depending on how many colleagues have been written, two - three colleagues and one parliamentary representative. The Minister - I have consulted him - will take the floor when the rapporteurs and the special speakers are finished. I think we can smoothly finish about the time that I have told you and be free tomorrow, as far as Parliament is concerned, for legislative work. I think that we are unanimous in agreeing with this process, and so we can start. Open the electronic record system. Perhaps any colleague who wants to be registered from this moment. I invite the Apostle Karastasis, SYRIZA rapporteur.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a bill which, as I believe, will make a major contribution to the modernisation of the urban transport of the Thessaloniki Regional Unit and, as a result, to the economic development and improvement of the quality of life of the inhabitants of the region. The draft law to be adopted restructures the urban transport of Thessaloniki and introduces a new legal framework for them. The new regulatory framework has as a model the equivalent of the Athens, OSCE and its subsidiaries and significant reforms are introduced in both the design, organisation, control and supervision of urban transport and the implementation of urban transport work in the Regional Unit of Thessaloniki, while at the same time the economic agreement between the Greek State and the Organisation of Urban Transport of Thessaloniki, OSH, is resolved under Articles 5 and 106 of the Constitution. The latter is repurchased by the Greek State and all aspects of the property automatically transferred to the public, the acquisition, the temporary assignment of the public transport project and the issues of its liquidation are regulated. At the same time, a new regulatory body, the Thessaloniki Transport Works Agency, the OSH, aiming at developing, coordinating, supervising and controlling public urban transport of buses, underground and land-based tracks, as well as maritime transport in the area of Thessaloniki and abolishing the Urban Transport Council, the old SASTH, is recommended. Finally, a new executive body for Urban Transport of Thessaloniki S.A. is recommended, A.S.TH, which is also subject to Law 3429/05 and 2190/20 and is a subsidiary of the company OSETH S.A. and undertakes the urban transport project in the Regional Unit of Thessaloniki by buses and means of underground and fixed metro tracks, and trams. The changes adopted are necessary on the one hand to adapt to Regulation 1370/2007 on public passenger and road transport and, on the other, to protect the national economy, to ensure the smooth operation of the public transport service by bus and to maintain the social peace and economic activity of Thessaloniki. But let us see what the situation is today in the urban transport of the Region of Thessaloniki. From the distant 1957, that is, about sixty years ago, the Thessaloniki Urban Transport Agency was established, OSTH was and is a special legal entity of private law with the sole and special purpose of conducting urban bus journeys and the service of the passenger audience of Thessaloniki. The initial public service concession expired on 31 December 1981, but with successive extensions its expiry was extended until 28 February 2001. Subsequently, with the contract between the Greek State and the OSH, the award of the public transport service to OSH continued, the duration of which was set up up to 31-12-2009. Finally, as from 11-1-2008, before the end of the 2009 deadline, the duration of the last contract was extended up to two years from the completion of the Thessaloniki metro in full development, i.e. the possibility that its development will be expected to take place and until Katerini, giving an extension of enormous amount in terms of the ending of the contract. It requires an answer to what the end of the contract for 2009 planned for the asset was anticipated and whether this was foreseen in 2008 with the extension. By operating this system all these years it has managed to completely devaluate Thessaloniki's urban transport. All parties, but also the bodies added to a debate by the relevant committee of the House, have drawn up another less and more in black colour the current situation in this area. Another said that "uses immediate change", another "necessary change", another said "true situation", another said "time closed". So I will confine myself to the verbal record of the most important of the bad texts that have emerged from this debate. In particular, there is a clear lack of compliance with scheduled routes, a reduced number of buses and significant exclusions between contractually planned and carried out passenger services. This is where I want to make a report. Really, after the placement of all parties where you described the situation about how OSH is right now, sixty years, the parties that ruled didn't understand what was going on? Didn't they understand what happened in the first thirty years, forty, fifty? We had to get to sixty years of operation today to understand what the situation is at the moment in the Thessaloniki OSH? The administration and shareholders of the Agency refuse to apply the Community and national framework of the award and procurement regulations, international accounting standards and legislation of all kinds on the remuneration of staff. This mismanagement of the organisation's finances under its responsibility and the inertia of the CSCE have led to the inability to pay its staff, which has caused repeated labour mobilisations and a complete interruption of the public transport project in Thessaloniki, particularly serious social and economic disruption in the wider region. At the same time, over the entire period of operation of the OSH, hundreds of millions of euros have been paid to him by the Greek public, about EUR 1 billion, only in the last eight years. Tens of millions of euros are paid annually under the economic agreement, while the administration and the shareholders of the organisation are not in charge of the Community and national legal framework for financial transparency and accountability. So today the agency has accumulated obligations to the insurance funds amounting to EUR 41 million, while, to date, financial obligations total more than EUR 120 million, including more than EUR 38 million, which, although paid to it by means of the compensatory payments of the Greek State, has however consumed the corresponding sums for its operating expenses. Finally, its annual total cost revenues, compensatory payments are lower than its annual expenditure, thus increasing its already huge deficits every day. From the way the OSH operates, and in particular its economic function and the current economic situation, as illustrated by the elements I have presented to you, it is obvious, ladies and gentlemen, that this body does not respond to any area of its contractual obligations. There is therefore an urgent need to protect the national economy, since the continuation of the operation of the OSH with public, insurance funds and third parties and deficits on its reserves is excessively burdened by the Greek State and the State therefore has an obligation to intervene in implementing the constitutional requirement of Article 106 in order to protect the national economy and restore the vital social and economic importance of urban transport with buses in Thessaloniki. I consider it to be clear at the meetings of the committee responsible that the 2001 contract between the public and the OSH ended in 2016, that is, ten plus five years after its conclusion in accordance with Regulation 1370 of 2007. The extension of the 30-4-2001 economic agreement with the 11-1-2008 amending contract up to two years after the completion of the Thessaloniki metro is of indefinite duration, directly contrary to the relevant provisions of the same Regulation. Therefore, the Greek State's contract with OSH cannot be tolerated, under Union law, for it to continue to apply. With regard to the articles in the draft law, I would like to dwell on what I consider to be the difference in our perception of the species in the way of state bodies operate. In Chapter A, in Articles 1 to 13, I will insist on 3 and 9. Article 3 sets out in detail the responsibilities of the new body with emphasis on strategic planning of the transport project and the introduction of new technologies, telematics, electronic ticket, and how to determine the computer and its subsidy for social protection purposes. Article 9 concerns the Board of Directors of UCLAF. The Board of Directors of OSH participates five members appointed by the Ministers of Finance and Infrastructure and Transport, a member proposed by the Region of Central Macedonia, a member of the Municipality of Thessaloniki, a member from the Regional Association of Municipalities of Central Macedonia and a member from the Department of Central Macedonia of the Technical Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Industry of Thessaloniki, the Professional and Craft Chamber of Thessaloniki and each term is defined alternately. We are opening up, ladies and gentlemen, this way, the agency in local society and the productive ranks of the region. Chapter B notes that the company's share capital belongs to OSE with the possibility - I consider it very important - of transferring up to 49% of the share capital to the OTAs of the Regional Unit of Thessaloniki. In accordance with Article 19, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1, if in the event of a transfer of a percentage by such percentage to the ATTs, each minority shareholder shall be represented with a member of his choice on the Governing Council with a maximum total representation of all minority shareholders of the three members. In this case, the managing director of the company is always appointed by the Greek State, while the chairman is appointed by the minority shareholders. Finally, in Chapter IV, I note an event. Paragraph 1 of Article 25 provides for an international tender for the award of an audit firm to assess the value of the undertaking. That is how we respond, ladies and gentlemen, to those who see ghosts behind all our transparent intentions for a company, which has been working for sixty years and - as we have said - with enormous problems. We firmly believe in the modernisation of urban transport. We are now delivering to the citizens of the Regional Unit of Thessaloniki a new framework for their operation, with the possibility of involving local communities, with control by the productive actors in the region, oriented in the future. The people of the region are sure to support the government's efforts, because they have experienced the previous disastrous situation of urban transport for many years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u3	I too, Mr. Karanastasis, who have been consistent with your time. Mr Konstantinos Karamanlis is the general rapporteur of the New Democracy. Here, you have the floor, Mr Karamanlis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, before we move to the end of the bill, let me have a general comment. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, in your attempt to be consistent left-wing, that is to say, to be good at your electoral base, which has been disappointed by your memorial disobey, you are unfortunately divesting and stacking in the 21st century with concise and authoritarian - I would say - the urban transport of Thessaloniki. At the same time as joining the Disciplinary Fund all the movable and immovable property for 99 years, you are coming today and making the unprecedented, you are stalling the OSTH, obviously to join it later in the superstate. Because I am sure - although the Minister does not admit it - that you have, as good students, obtained the permission of the troika for the unprecedented statistication of European data, provided you probably put it into the fund. I am almost convinced that the Minister - we will all be listening to him shortly - will celebrate in his speech about what he proudly calls the OSH deprivation. I am also sure he will blame the New Democracy, in your best practice, Minister, for neoliberalism and all that. He will try, in other words, to separate his New Democracy today with his New Democracy yesterday. But we, Minister, are always stable. Others change political parties and political ideologies. Let me remind you of one more thing. The best students of the school of Chicago are SYRIZA ministers, since after your memorial of a piece of shit you did what no memorial right-wing government thought to do, to create a supreme privatization that binds the state's mobile and immovable property for 99 years. Congratulations, then, are you good students at Chicago School and the most obedient students in the troika. Mr President, to describe this bill one needs to use only two words: a memorandum of contradiction. The way the OSH, a very problematic organization, needs redesign, and that is without doubt, and we have also said so in committee, Minister. In 2014 was the government of the New Democracy that took joint decisions to rationalise the organization, such as a reduction in wages, which even reached 10%, an adjustment of the ticket price, a reduction in the Greek State's contribution to the cover of OSH deficits. But then we had another SYRIZA who said no to everything. Then he didn't want any solution for OSH. So we are not saying that the situation on the map of urban transport in Thessaloniki is not a problem. He needs a serious approach, he needs a model change, because what is being applied to date, without being public, unfortunately has many of the pathogens of the public sector in Greece. But what do you do? You certify that you can't solve any problems. You don't seem to have the ability to correct the situation. All you know to do - and I say this with sadness - is to replace a failed model with an even more failed model. In words you put them with the past, but in practice, where you need to take an initiative, all you know to do is dive in the past. Ladies and gentlemen, it is important to see what we are doing from now on with respect primarily to the passenger audience of Thessaloniki. Unfortunately, as we have said before, the bill does not just solve problems, but creates new ones. The statement of OSTH, we fear, will lead to a complete stalemate for the transportation of Thessaloniki, but will also ultimately cost the Greek State and the Greek taxpayer much more than what it costs today. Let me focus on two main points. The first question: The bill - everyone admitted it to the committee in which the agencies came - presents a number of legal problems. The way in which the Greek State's contract with OSTH and the acquisition of the organisation are envisaged to end early and unilaterally create reasonable legal issues. At the same time, the bill - and no matter what it says in its draft report - comes, in our view, in a total conflict with European legislation and, above all, with Regulation 1370/2007. The fact is that the committee did another reading of the European regulation. However, everyone in this Chamber and especially those involved in urban transport know that on 3 December 2019 our country must go ahead in open competitive procedures. What we are asking the Minister is to tell us what his plans are, what will happen after that date. We know, of course, that you will not be in power at the time, but the state has continued even though, Minister, SYRIZA has lost the election. You must therefore have a plan. Do you then intend to carry out the competitive procedure for the urban transport of Thessaloniki or ask the European Commission for an exception, as is the case in Athens? The second issue concerns the cost of the project. We see high costs, such as the payment of the OSH share capital, the payment of a price to OSH shareholders, the transfer of OSH employees to the new body. Where will the government get the costs to cover all these costs? Are we going to resort to the Greek taxpayer again? An important cost will also be the fact that you carry two thousand three hundred employees from the old agency to the other body. But what I think the President of OSH workers did not understand, or at least concealed it, is that, automatically and in accordance with Article 34, their salaries are immediately reduced by 30%, since they are part of the single wage. The irreversible Samara government made 7% cuts in 2004, Mr. Spirtzi's proud government makes 30% wage cuts, so genuine left you are anyway. Beyond these serious issues, however, there is another reasonable question in the thought of what we read the bill. You must respond clearly to this: this unlikely decision on statisation, have you finally reached agreement with the lenders or not? Because there are two possibilities, ladies and gentlemen, or you have not agreed to it, and you simply have a hole in the water and we will find ourselves in 2019 in a process where these companies will have to dissolve or have agreed to secretly, so it turns out once again that you are the favourite children of the Troika, so loved, that I will dare say, Minister, that they also make you the most senseful carts. When everyone admits that the state must be reduced in Europe, what are we doing? He's making the OSTH public. However, as their favorite children may do more to you, but we must be sure of something: it is not for the development of the economy, for the protection of the weak social classes, for the young, for the pensioners or for the unemployed. In this case, of course, I have to say that it is not just your fault, but once again, creditors also have a serious responsibility, since you have been allowed to table this bill. In any case, however, answer us and, after you have made it clear what you have agreed with the lenders, you need to find the courage to tell both the Greek Parliament and the citizens of Thessaloniki. After OSH's statized, he's going to enter the superstate? Say it openly to get in touch. Is this all the history to serve the audience of Thessaloniki, or to increase the property of the famous superstition, which you have been so easy to accept? And finally, if the answer is yes, then there is a question, I would say, ideologically: What is preferable to the economy? What's best for the place? To be owned by a body in private or in the supranational, that is to say, to be fully controlled by the lenders? By the way, you will allow me to clarify a few things about the surplus, because we have heard, I think, irrational things in the committees. As much as you want to make the situation look good, the truth is that the government of SYRIZA and ANEL have done what he has not dared to do nor to think of doing any government before you. Because what you've done is you've given everything almost forever. Mr President, the New Democracy has said so and will repeat it: the way the OSH operates must change radically, immediately. Throughout the period in which the government was supposed to have consulted the TATs, the truth is, several proposals for the rationalisation of the company. The Minister, unfortunately, ignored these proposals and finally chose the privatization of the OSH as an appropriate solution. We said, that's all he knows, that's what he trusts. We believe, however, that the proposed solution will not solve the problems, but will exacerbate the situation in the urban transport of Thessaloniki and I hope that we will all be here, in this Chamber, in two or three years' time to see this. We therefore consider that you should immediately withdraw the bill and open a wider and substantial dialogue with all the parties, with all the actors in the city, with regard to the problems of urban transport, with serious respect for European legislation and with regard to the look at tomorrow, away from small-scale toys. The aim is to create a new draft, with the activation of the Regulatory Authority for Passenger Transport and in full harmony, in full compliance with European Regulation 1370/2007, with the explicit expiry date of the current economic agreement between the Greek State and OSH and taking into account something essential, that the global transport map accepts strengthening urban transport, whether they are public or private, up to 40% of their mixed costs, and all this with respect to the citizens of Thessaloniki. The truth is that they have been wronged by the delay in completing the metro projects. Many years have been afflicted by the unacceptable situation in OSH, let us not add another obstacle to their everyday lives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, the electronic registration system is closed. I would like to inform you that fourteen colleagues have been registered. So the aim, which we have set from the outset, to finish at around 18.00 hours, is absolutely feasible and I would say with a relative tolerance, particularly among my fellow Members, which has been reduced from seven to five minutes. We normally continue with the special speaker from the Democratic Asylum Mr Georgios Arvanitidis. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to sum up our criticism of the bill and repeat the purely political proposal of the Democratic Alliance for the urban transport of Thessaloniki. Ladies and gentlemen, things in life are neither white nor black. This is something that suits us, which has been helpful for us for years, so that everyone can present their own truth. Unfortunately, life has proved to be much more difficult and much more complicated. Against OSTH, who closes his circle, leaving behind great discontent to the citizens of Thessaloniki, we say that the city must go a step ahead of all the models that were applied in the country and their results were not what the citizens wanted. Thessaloniki has no reason, ladies and gentlemen, to copy Athens' model. Thessaloniki will acquire quality, modern and European urban transport, when the people of the city - and according to the European directive, the people of each city - take the case in their hands. So the solution is neither a state-run model nor a neoliberal model, of course. The solution is not to move from the private monopoly of OSH to the state monopoly of the Ministry of Transport. The solution for Thessaloniki lies in open public transport with a crucial role for the government and the city's institutions. They cannot be absent from the institutions, either the labour centre or the chambers of Thessaloniki, people who use the services. What we're asking is very clean. We ask for the urban transport of Thessaloniki to be designed by the people of the city and not by the adorables of the Minister concerned. On the contrary, Mr Minister, you ask that the urban transport of Thessaloniki belong to your Ministry and not to society. This is the difference of the state-owned model that you propose from the open public transport proposed by the Democratic Partnership. Because, Minister, you said that only the state can secure the positions of workers, I will tell you that that is not the case. You say if there's a public competition, the workers will lose their jobs. Who said, Minister, that the international competitions only involve private providers? Who told you that the local government and the city's productive players cannot secure jobs? Did you ask them? Did you actually put down pencil and paper scenarios to see that this doesn't come out? Why are we going to all things in our lives with the logic of white - black - and of course we are confusing citizens? Solutions, Minister, there are. We invited you yesterday and the day before yesterday to discuss them. If you insist on your own proposal, if you think you know better, go on alone. We will say'residents' in the first place, because no one can say no to closing the sixty-year cycle. All models complete their life cycle with good or bad results and in this case they were not the best. But we do not agree with your proposal for the next day, so we will vote against many articles in the bill. I also told the committee that Thessaloniki should go through a new era. However, the essential condition for replacing OSH is to be ready to replace him with something better. What you have in mind, Minister, may be much better than the current situation, but this is not reflected in the bill. We are voting for bills here, Minister, and not just good intentions, as you have used to us. The provisions before us speak of the establishment of two new bodies and the abolition of two others. Nothing more, nothing less. There are no quality objectives for the transport project, there are no timetables, so that people know what to expect and when, you have not even tabled an indicative plan for the new philosophy on which the planning of urban transport in Thessaloniki will move. That is why OSTH will continue to provide his services, the same services as today in the city, by the end of 2019, with the same contract as today. In Greek, that is to say, you are abolishing the organization, to show determination and strength, but you ask him to keep doing the job until we are ready. These aren't serious things. These are cockfighting on the back of the city and, you know, Thessaloniki unfortunately has experienced all these years too many times the cockfighting on its back. Let me see who will apologize to the citizens and professionals of Thessaloniki, if in the summer, if within tourist season, we have problems. I also talked to the committee about trying to build a closed and controlled system. I was diligent. The correct description is a closed, controlled and authoritarian system. So we tell you almost all of the opposition parties that asking for a list of the bodies to choose from you, Mr Minister, who you want to represent the UCLAF, is something unprecedented. We have also told you that it is incomprehensible for a nine-member body to decide in a quorum of three. As if not all of this were enough, you come to impose draconian sentences on anyone who dares to go against. I read myself Article 28(1). He says: “Anyone who is blocking, blocking, in any way or means, refuses access to offices, train stations, OSH service elements, etc., shall be punished by imprisonment of up to three years and with a penalty of at least EUR 10,000 and with a deprivation of his civil rights for five years.” In simple terms, if anyone dares to dare a peaceful demonstration of protest at OSH trains, he will eat three years in prison, 100,000 euros in fines and the deprivation of civil rights for five years. It is not serious, Minister, and you are a left-wing government, as you say. Please tell me how many years in prison the 'I'm not paying' movement should there be? How many millions of fines should they have paid? How many people would have been deprived of their political rights? In Thessaloniki we do not need any kind of Velegeka over our heads and you will do well to correct this provision immediately. I now come to the place where it concerns the quality of services. What is of interest to the citizens of Thessaloniki is that they have clean and new buses and with air condition - because anyone who experiences the conditions under which the transport work is being carried out today will be impressed by the state of the buses - they will be on time - excellent for my colleague, Mr Triantafylides, that the Thessalonians have acquired a cervical syndrome, not looking ahead, but turning, to see when the bus will come - and be able to go without problems at every corner of the prefecture. In Asprovalta, in Mechania, in Koufalia, in Ascos, in Soho. Where does this quality of services arise, Minister, with the new system? Because it will buy OSTH the state and the services, automatically, will they gain quality? In your bill, there is not half a line that lays down quality standards. There is no half a line to tell which branches the Ministry will invest in collaboration with PSS. There are not even priorities for us to know, that is, if we are to change the fleet, the best routes, the friendly axes with boarding, the interoperability of transport. Do you know why, ladies and gentlemen? Because once again, unfortunately, we are in the sense of'seeing and doing'. Another aim of the bill is to protect the national economy. This is where priority has gone to another level. The argument you are using to support your claim, Minister, is that OSTH does not manage well, because he is private, while PSY will self-evidently do good, because he is state-owned. In Greek, that is, these are the bad ones and we're the good ones. Listen, with such simple arguments you cannot convince anyone. Do you have any evidence to tell us how much less S.H.I.E.L.D. will cost the same taxpayer? Obviously not. If you had, you'd have testified to us. That is why you are calling on us to vote on a bill based on the good intentions of the Minister and the bodies he appoints. I would therefore say to you, Minister, that two and a half years in government have been filled with good intentions. Thessaloniki has had high expectations and low results for many years. First of all, then, bring information to the House and then we can really discuss what you want. I close with the subject of European Regulation 1370/2007, which has been a lot of talk in committee. What the regulation says is in complete alignment with the proposal of the Democratic Alliance. I'm reading a characteristic quote: "The local authorities will be able to choose how to organise their public transport. They will be free to provide transport themselves at local level or to assign them to a third qualified carrier. In this way, the European Commission shall respond to the European Parliament's request that the representatives of the citizens of Europe respect the freedom of choice of the relevant local bodies.". So, before us, we have a great opportunity, a challenge, to create a modern institutional framework for public urban transport so that Thessaloniki can take the lead and be an example. Good examples need our country in the period we live, a framework open to society, from which we can choose the best from within international competitions. We have the opportunity to lay the foundations so that the citizens of Thessaloniki enjoy the level of services that is appropriate in a modern European city of the 21st century. We have the opportunity to act on decentralisation, using the possibilities given to us by Kalikaratis. We have the opportunity to change the attitude of abstention and indifference that exists in society for the public. Do not ignore the educational role that such a process may have. Do not ignore the value of seeing young children what it means to me and I define one of the most important things for a city, such as urban transport. We come to this Chamber and protest that citizens turn their backs on politics. When it comes to giving the floor, let's go and build closed bureaucratic systems to the ministries. So we once again call on you to open urban transport in Thessaloniki to society and trust the citizens of Thessaloniki. We are calling for open, public transport, with a crucial role for self-government and city actors. We ask for the urban transport of Thessaloniki to be designed and designed by the people of the city and not by the masters of the respective Minister. We ask you to trust the local community. Mr President, I shall speak in my denunciation on the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u7	The special speaker from the Golden Dawn, Mr. Ioannis Sahinides, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. It seems to me that I have heard in the committees too many, but it will be heard today that this is a situation which has not been rectified for sixty years. Do not forget that much of the Members you are in this Chamber - and I am not talking about those present, but about those who are not present - and your fathers were in here and have not been willing to fix it for so many years. Today we have heard the rapporteur of the New Democracy present to us his resignation as an antimony. In fact, it has been mentioned twice - and I do not want to take SYRIZA’s side to God, we abstain from paradoxically ideologically - that they are the favourite children of the troika. No, gentlemen, don't worry. All of you are Troika's favorite children, because you are left and right in food. We have said - and we will highlight it in every opportunity that we are given, which of course are few, one of which is the Step from which I am speaking today - that as a popular nationalist movement Golden Dawn we are in favour of state-running in basic structures and infrastructures. I think it is appropriate to emphasise this once again, by wanting to separate our position from the other opposition parties of the so-called democratic arch, which will vote against this draft law for different reasons each. I will explain below what we differ, and that is what I have to do, because we are being watched by the Greek people, who will have to know. Although this draft law, Minister, contains too many suspicious provisions, which I shall mention in detail, we would indeed have the good will to vote for, but this would only be done on one condition by adding two additional articles. One article would expressly and unequivocally say that the statement you intend to make in the urban transport services of Thessaloniki has a duration of ninety years, what you propose for the duration of the new vehicle, OSH, in Article 6. Secondly, if it were to remain wage-free, because labour rights are guaranteed, that is to say if you had a second article, which would say that the OSH workers would not pass on to Law No.4354/2015, to the single wage, by reducing their wages and more - at least to save what we can - we would have the good intention of voting in favour of the bill. We are, however, confident that you do not state OSH for reasons of resolution, as you support, or because that is the way your Marxist ideology for state-runism proposes and suggests. After all, you have given credentials to this part and you have become "capitalist" and "neoliberal" of the New Democracy, the PASOK and all your other partners of the constitutional arch. You have called on the committees, Mr Minister, many times too, during the discussions of this draft law, the European Union regulation, number 1370/2007. But what does this regulation say? It expressly provides or that a tender will be made in order to entrust passenger transport to a private company, or that the competent local authority, i.e. the region, municipalities or the association of municipalities, will undertake to provide public passenger transport themselves. I do not mention this because we consider and want as Golden Dawn to apply and harmonise with European directives, but because we want to prevent any fines or sanctions that will arise when the institution of the IACC, which - let us not forget - will be a subsidiary of the IACC and will, that is to say, be a State subsidiary. This would violate the institutional framework of the European Union, as I mentioned before, under Regulation 1370/2007 of the European Union. The major issue, however, which arises, Mr Minister, is whether, in the immediate future - and I told you to the committees and I did not receive an answer - which we do not of course know how soon that will be, you will come with an amendment, invoking precisely this provision, namely 1370/2007 with the justification I mentioned before, that, because it is being violated, it will have to be privatised again, selling out the Urban Transport, as well as the OSE, airports, ports and I do not know what else you are going to sell. The composition of the Management Board shall be referred to in Article 9. Here we read that of the nine members of the board of directors, you will decide directly as the Minister of Transport together with the Minister of Finance and the other four, except for one which will be rotating every three years and will come from the various chambers, the other three will be proposed by the institutions and you will decide again. With regard to Article 12, which is mentioned in the recommendation of the subsidiary ISSN, this is exactly what I mentioned before by the provision of Article 1370/2007 of the European Union, which does not provide a subsidiary of a State body to be able to manage transport. In Article 14, which again refers to the recommendation of the "SYTH S.A.", should it not normally be, Minister, before the company is set up to have an article in this draft law setting out how it operates? Not to do this with Article 10, which provides that within two months the company's board of directors will draw up its rules of procedure when it is formed in a body. Article 13 is perhaps one of the few articles in which we are partly positive because, yes, as I said before, it ensures the absorption of the workforce, but it does not ensure that it is paid. In Article 16, the same applies to Article 6, which provides for a period of 90 years - of course we are also opposed here - to the UCLAF. Article 19 refers to what I said before on the Management Board. We are, of course, vertical and negative on that. Article 22 refers to the conclusion of the contract between the Greek State and the OSH and the origin of the OSH's property in the public sector. What will happen, Minister, with the opinion of the Legal Council of the State, which has expressly decided in December 2016 under the decision No 320/2016 that contracts between the State and OSH, ratified by Laws Nos 3652/2008 and 3897/2010, apply and that the same contracts do not conflict with the provisions of the European Union Regulation No 1370/2007 and that they will expire on 3-12-2019? In Rule 28 - and I also mentioned this to the committees - I sincerely want to see and I am very curious, Minister, how you will manage your trade union clientele, which you have taught them for so many years, when you were extra-parliamentary, to go up to the bars, to take possession of buildings in workplaces and, when their demands are not met, to break, to burn, to destroy what they find in front of them. Are you really in the mood to deprive them of the gymnastics they do every time they disagree with the decisions of the government in question? Because, judging by the recent events in Ermos and the weekly exile in Exarchia, you probably have neither the power nor the will to apply legality. So the fines you want to impose by Article 28, from EUR 10,000 to EUR 20,000, the imprisonment and deprivation of the civil rights provided for in Article 28 of this draft law, I do not believe you will ever implement them. You do well and go away, Minister, as you did in the previous committees, because what you hear doesn't like. With regard to Articles 32 and 33, this is where the Government of the OSH Government ensures that OSH government moves to OSH and PSH so that, in accordance with Article 32, they maintain their employment relationship. We said that we would support this. With no provision, however, as I have said, it does not ensure that their rights are guaranteed, namely that they are paid, that their salaries are not further reduced, as I have said before, and that working hours are increased. Before the workers' fair and reasonable demands are met, then, you propose your party interest and this is clearly apparent in Article 32(1)(b) - (c) which tells us that permanent staff may be transferred, transferred to an empty organic position of the new bodies to be set up. However, even if there is no vacant organic position, such, even personal, may be established in order to meet your clientele needs. This means, in practical terms, an increase in the State's expenditure, a burden on the State budget, a burden which cannot be assessed at the moment and all that, not in the public interest, but only for the sake of self-interest. In fact, with the exception of those laid down by Law 4002/2011 for transfers, no authorisation is required. The law in Article 48 is clear: In order to fill positions in public, legal persons governed by public law are entitled to registration. It shall not be understood to include a registration of a company without a statute. There is one ambiguity in this provision. Article 37 concerns repealed provisions and laws relating to the functioning of the OSH. I shall refer to the amendments as well. In Amendment No 1102 and in Amendment No 2, any regulation strengthens transparency in the field of public procurement is certainly moving in the right direction. However, this obligation should be extended to cases where public contracts have an estimated value much less than EUR 60,000, we would say less than EUR 5 000, since there are little cases of transparency and fraudulent action in public procurement, which involve less money. The amendment to the general number 1103 and specific 3 refers to the extension of competitions to the Health Services and Medicines Programme. Here we have to vote against it, not because we do not want the competition to go ahead, simply because it is nowhere to mention what materials and what medicines it is about. I would also like to make a comment on an amendment, which is parliamentary, from the Independent Greeks and signed by Mr Lazarides. This amendment, Mr Lazaridis, if I understood correctly, is exactly what was said by the CBC representative yesterday. I'm neither an economist nor a broker, but I just know basic mathematics. Here you say in the explanatory statement to your amendment that the ESCB had paid a sum of EUR 1,900,000 for the acquisition of twenty-six shares, each of which had a nominal value of EUR 38,797. It is also mentioned that for the years 2014, 2015, 2016 and 2017 it has collected - and I shall end, Mr President - EUR 1,008 000. I mean, there's been a depreciation of about 55% of the investment. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. On the second page, however, it is stated that, following a new contract on 8-4-2010, three other shares were purchased, the value of which, according to the previous ones, should be EUR 116,000. But here it seems very strange to me that EUR 271,000 has been paid, namely EUR 90,000 for each share. If we add these two amounts, in relation to the sums paid by the CBC for the fifteen municipalities whose routes have been lost, the CBC paid a sum of EUR 2,281,000 and the money collected corresponds to around EUR 2,000,000, i.e. it has almost been amortised. But all that I mentioned and the stock market took place in 2003. Here in the amendment the dividends have been reported since 2014, 2015, 2016 and 2017. The rest of the years, what happened? How much money has he taken from the Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa In order to be able to accept the amendment, we should have an image of the amount of investment - just how much it was on the side of the CBC to buy the shares - but we should also have a picture of the amount of revenue that it had from this investment. The other amendments I will comment on in my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u9	We proceed with the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Athanasio Bardalis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. From the outset we would like to clarify the criterion on the basis of which we will judge the bill we are discussing today. We, each proposal for urban transport, therefore, also for this draft bill, are judged on the basis of the satisfaction of the combined people's needs in the transport sector. In other words, we consider it to be safe, cheap for people's strata of urban transport and whether workers in them will have full wage and labour rights. Does it make all this through the bill we're talking about? Our answer is not even mindful. Not only that, but the government's deepest target is to pave the way for privatization. In fact, it claims that it is allegedly stacking urban transport, but in this case the state, by breaking the monopoly of the old OSH, opens the market to other players, domestic and foreign, who can participate in the tenders, defines the rules and 'equivalent' conditions of competition based on the European legislation it adopts. The state is only temporarily owned to organise the game, to act as a wheelchair to private interests. Besides, we've seen this project before. The PASOK and the New Democracy did the same at other times, of course. They dominated problematic businesses, dedicated them, charged their debts to the people's backs and then again into the private. Because, as you all say, the state has nothing to do with this kind of business. They mustn't, they're not businessmen. There has been a lot of talk in the committee and so far in the plenary about whether or not it will be better or not to'stabilisation', whether or not it would be better to be given to a private person. Here, moreover, the conflict between the government and the other opposition parties, which, in our view, is also disorientative, has also been focused. The reality is that two new public limited companies are being set up, only in the name of state. Why do we say 'only by name'? Because both of them, despite the fact that the shares will belong to the State and to part of the second company in the local administration, will operate on private-sector criteria and will be subject to the provisions on CIUs, with what that means. In addition, the private economic criteria are laid down in the bill itself, which speaks of maximum operating costs per vehicle kilometre and of a lower level of customer satisfaction. In practice, that is, when the limit of permitted operating costs is exceeded, the routes will be reduced, employees' wages will be reduced, tickets will be increased, or rather, as the bill says, 'the appropriate cost will be determined'. That's what they call the ticket increase! In the end, that is, they will operate on the cost-benefit basis. Secondly, the Government in the explanatory memorandum to the draft bill argues that there is a need - urgently - to protect the national economy and, because of the suffocating budgetary adjustment framework, there is a need to reduce public expenditure. That's why he's moving on to this bill. She says it herself. Therefore, the aim is to continue the operation of urban transport in Thessaloniki - and not just - with less money than the budget, to reduce, in other words, the grant. Why? Because it does not allow the suffocating framework of budgetary adjustment. However, the same framework of fiscal adjustment allows subsidies and tax exemptions for large capital to investors. It turns out this way once again that for the SYRIZA government the return of capital gains is top priority. This is what they mean when they talk about 'national interest', 'protection of the national economy', 'operation of urban transport for the sake of public interest'. It is a public interest, and for this government, it is to find warm money for business groups. That's why they're going to cut off the subsidies to transport. For the same reason they charge us tax burdens, reduce funding for health, welfare, education. For the same reason, they reduce wages, wages and pensions. But it also has the where and how to save money so that they can reduce the state subsidy. Here - and Immediately - the marble will be paid by the workers of these two companies that are set up, of OSH and of PHSH. Their inclusion in the single wage will directly bring down wages from 15% to 50%, depending on the years of service each has. OSH workers should also know that they are awaited by other sufferings than wage cuts. Labour relations, intensification will get worse. It will further extend the delegation of departments to contractors, such as for example storage, cleaning, maintenance, control of the computer. Mostly, however, the marble will pay the popular layers of the city. Developments in the urban transport are signalling a new swing of the partakamari, the low-paid worker, the unemployed of Thessaloniki, with new increases in tickets and stricter controls. It is more than certain, regardless of any government statements on the contrary, that there will be an increase in the ticket on a course. The workers, the city's popular layers in the next period will put a deeper hand in an empty pocket. In conclusion, the workers and the people have nothing to gain from this government proposal. Any micro-improvements - and if they arise - will in no case substantially change the situation. The other opposition parties argue that private parties will offer better and cheaper work and therefore the form of privatisation or strategic investor should be chosen. All of you, government and opposition parties, state faith in the private initiative, despite any individual differences. When things get dark, as in the case of the private OSTH, and you are forced to admit the harsh reality, then you are denounced as airplanes, as state-runners and you declare that you are in favour of the "healthy private initiative". You know, I imagine, that there is no state in the European Union, not only throughout the world, which does not aid urban transport. How, however, is the amount of the grant fixed? The European Union itself, which drinks water in its name, by Regulation No 1370/2007 in Article 4.1, states: ‘The grant should not exceed the net financial result of the costs and revenue obtained by the public service operator, as well as a reasonable profit’. In other words, in any case, the individual's right to profit is recognised and, indeed, ensures it. This is the 'healthy' private initiative. Their profit is in any case secured. It's a prisoner. The rest we see, we're looking for them. But the profit, ladies and gentlemen, does not fall out of heaven. The profit will come from the exploitation of workers, the reduction of wages, the reduction of the transport work provided to the people. The ticket receipts will pay the popular mattresses. As far as 'healthy private initiative' is concerned, the example of England is a characteristic. The privatisation of urban buses there and the competition of companies reduced the traffickers to a decade by 27% and at the same time increased the fare, that is, the ticket, by 25%. That is why we say that the dilemma of a private or public transport operator, within this context, is a phony. Because in both cases the one who pays the bride is the workers and the folk layers. Ladies and gentlemen, the operation of transport with private economic criteria, on the one hand, and the Government's attempt to load the capitalist crisis on the part of workers and the people, on the other hand, are the ones that crush the modern popular need for cheap, safe transport, where they will work with full rights. In the face of this situation, the fight against urban transport, as a whole, must be strengthened by the workers and the rest of the people's bodies, against those who make our lives black. We mustn't leave them in a green clay. To feel the breath of the worker and of the people’s movement daily. Only the organization and mass struggle of workers can impose a reduction in the price of the ticket, with free movement of workers to and from work. To move free all day the unemployed, the students, the students, the disabled, the low pensioners. Recruitment with full rights. What do you think? You're hiring, Minister? There is now no reduction in the wages of workers. To increase buses, to tighten the routes and, above all, to the people's districts and, indeed, to get the contractors out of urban transport. It is clear that the JRC is neither with the private or the state-owned transport operator that the government is currently proposing, because it has its own proposal for urban transport: transport safe, cheap for the people, with full rights for the workers, a proposal that meets combined people's needs. We are talking about a single state media body that is part of a state, scientific, national, which is essential if it is to be realised is to produce all wealth, that is, workers, to take the economy into their hands, to make plans for it in their own interests. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr President, and I'll be done. Is such a realistic proposal realistic? The pragmaticity, in our view, is not judged by the correlations. Besides, they change. We say that, yes, it is realistic, as long as the workers believe it and make it their own case. Why, for example, is it realistic that the fleet is only renewed outside, with Swedish, German and Italian buses? Why is it not realistic to produce here? Is there no know-how and infrastructure in our country to become modern vehicles for mass transport? I would like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council whether he would like to make a statement on the situation in Bosnia-Herzegovina and on the situation in Bosnia-Herzegovina and on the situation in Bosnia-Herzegovina and in Bosnia-Herzegovina. At the invitation of the SYRIZA Government to sell it, this process of divestment and dismantling is being accelerated. But we are talking about a factory, the Greek Vehicle Industry, with an experienced workforce, with infrastructure that can support not only the construction of buses, ambulances, but also the production of military vehicles, with productive units of strategic importance, which can prove to be a valuable tool in the implementation of the planned economic and social development programmes, focusing on meeting the needs of the whole people. So our country has human resources, workers, craftsmen and scientists, who have both knowledge and experience and can build buses and everything. The functioning of the economy on the basis of profit, our country's attachment to the European Union and NATO are the ones that hamper the development of production in general and especially in this area. This has to change. That is why the struggle to solve the immediate problems must be combined with the struggle against business groups and their system. For all these reasons, we are voting against this bill. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u11	We proceed with the special speaker of the Independent Greeks, Mr. George Lazarides.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today and we are calling for the restructuring of the OSTH, an important legislative initiative, which is coming to an end to an unacceptable regime, in a morbid state of years, with characteristics of waste and, above all, the displeasure of the passenger audience of Thessaloniki. The poor management of the agency's finances and the inertia of the supervised entity have resulted in repeated pay problems which, unfortunately, have been passed on and caused the recent labour mobilisations with the well-known results. We cannot accept that, while hundreds of millions of euros have been paid by the Greek public in the context of economic agreements, problems of every kind continue to arise at the expense of both citizens and public finances. These situations must be stopped and the changes introduced are necessary and require the creation of a new public regulatory body, as we have said during the consultation of the draft law, which will coordinate, monitor, supervise and define the way and procedure for the exercise of all forms of transport. The existing body, the Council for Urban Transport of Thessaloniki, failed to meet the above requirements and in general its tasks, at the same time as the economic agreement of the Greek State and of the OSH, and therefore the immediate regulation of the issues of the project is necessary, without disrupting the social equilibrium and the daily life of the citizens. The changes we have mentioned are therefore necessary to maintain social and economic activity in Thessaloniki, but also to ensure the smooth operation of public urban transport, necessary for the proper fulfilment of the obligations on workers. Of course, we have also heard the bodies put forward in the creation of a body which will put an end to the suffering of the city's passenger audience, which will operate transparently and consistently and ensure the continuity of the work of the workers. What is certain is that the Agency's pathogens have been discussed and, on the basis of them, this important proposal is being proposed today and, unfortunately, it has been a unique one in all these years. It is a proposal providing for procedures for the valuation and liquidation of the company and introduces the framework to ensure the smooth transition of the transport operation to the new operator, with full safeguard of the labour rights of the staff over a reasonable period of time. Ladies and gentlemen, the modernisation of urban transport and the Thessaloniki Prefecture network is an important issue that is being strengthened, as it concerns the largest means of transport to the county in urban transport. It concerns directly and indirectly and affects economic developments, progress and improvement of the quality of life of the local residents. Significant reforms are now being introduced in the design, organisation, control and supervision of urban transport, in the hope that a stable framework will be established in the organisation's structure and in its funding, and that the regularity of the relevant ministry will finally cease to act in subsidiary and renew or prolong contracts, let alone when they are deemed to be short-term. The mismanagement of the organization's finances and other malfunctions have caused universal labour mobilisation, with the known results. For these reasons, and above all for their resolution, we support the proposal of the Ministry of Infrastructure, but also with an amendment we support the Thessaloniki CBEL. Ladies and gentlemen, with the amendment, under the general number 1107 and special 6, which I tabled on behalf of the Independent Greeks, we introduce the provision for the continuation of the payment of compensation and dividends signed with OSH, which is entitled by law to its area of responsibility in which it moves, in order not to lead the "KEL THESSALONIKI S.A." without its dues to the inability to continue operating and providing services on the intra-corporate long-distance bus lines. In order to be clearer, I will tell you two words about the amendment, since I have a little time. In order not to mourn the "KEL THESSALONIKI S.A." as a side loss to all of these bad OSH texts, I tabled this amendment and I will tell you a few words about the history. In 2001, OSTH expanded, without the consent of the CBEL, to fifteen municipalities outside the urban fabric of Thessaloniki, to an area served by the CBEL. We are talking about areas which have had a great deal of transport. So, in order for OSTH to golden the pill, those who consented and legitimised this move of OSTH transferred twenty-six shares to the CCEE and listen, while the CCEE did not agree to these lines, in fact 80% of the transport project, were granted him twenty-six shares, which the CCEE paid for already around 2 million euros. Then, in 2010, they took another piece of the CBEL. He was taken by nine other municipalities. They took fifteen municipalities the first time in 2001 and nine municipalities the second time in 2010. They even gave the CBEL three other shares, which he paid for with EUR 271,000. With these shares he was trying to survive the C.T.C.E. and the little transport work he had left. In fact, it was not just a little numerical, i.e. it had a few villages, a few areas to serve, but it was also the so-called 'blessed line'. I had often seen the buses of the Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kampa Kappa Kampa Kampa Kampa Kampa Kampa Kampa Kampa Kampa Kampa Kampa Kampa Kampala You know, public transport work is social. No one can see this on account of accounting criteria alone. It was obliged to serve the villages and rightly did. We saw many routes not having a passenger or having one or two passengers. But, anyway, he did. The CBEL was trying to cover this damage and largely covered it from its dividends, resulting from the shares it purchased. Nevertheless, the CBEL as a final result resulted in an annual loss of about 220,000-225,000 euros, which again covered the CCEE with its own effort, with the line of Thessaloniki - Athens, Athens - Thessaloniki. What are we now asking for with this amendment? With this amendment we ask, Minister, because it is not provided for in this bill, that this should continue to apply in order to keep the CBC up, so that we do not grieve the CBC as a side-effect. And I ask you to accept it. I would also ask colleagues to support the amendment because I think it is fair and reasonable. That's what I'm closing my place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u13	Because Mr Lazaridis' amendment is, in fact, a mini-legislative bill, the Minister should when he speaks, be placed, so that Members know what position they will take. Not that it depends entirely, but it's good to know. We are moving on to the last special speaker, Mr Aristides Fokas, from the Centro Association. Mr. Fokas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, the vast majority of the Thessalonians are obviously not satisfied with the quality of the services provided by the OSH. We claim self-evidently for a European country, modern urban transport with respect to the passenger public. The nakedness of the city was highlighted by the strikes of the workers who devastated Thessaloniki. So everyone wants something to change immediately. I have only heard him plead perfectly satisfied and proud, in fact, of prizes and this is the president of the organization, Mr Stefanidis. It was, in fact, strongly and yesterday in the hearing of the bodies in the committee responsible. Of course, for buses where their machinery does not give any change or for vehicles that do not have air conditioners - a pan-European lead - Mr Stefanidis threw the ball in the crate! For Mr Stefanidis, it's all the others except him. But the house that wants to protect, this unique, state-subsidised monopoly, has now evolved into a black hole for Thessaloniki. But here, there is a crucial issue. The government has chosen a completely conflicting OSTH policy. Having given land and water, retreating from all the principles and values put forward by the election, trampling every red line, squeezing in the corner after the 15th of June, they politically exploit the theme of OSH to show a supposedly left force, mocking the ears of the few left. You have passed into private ports, airports, roads. You put tolls everywhere, you who once cursed them. OSTH stayed your last banner. In this context, it is part of the filing and voting of this bill in accordance with the urgent procedure in July. However, Mr Spirtzi's constant arson statements on the looted children of OSTH, for the party he has mentioned, has been going on for sixty years for oasis of waste public money - medicaments, targeting everything - have caused storms in Thessaloniki, work promises, unprecedented suffering to the passenger public and the collapse of the already tested market. Of course, the Minister is only naive, not at all. He knows exactly how to play the game. He knows that by the vote of the bill, Hail's judiciary will be opened. It is certain that legal proceedings will be brought through the administration of the Agency for the unconstitutionality of the law, as even now it has not been cleared legally, if the OSH Convention and the State Convention have expired, or if it continues until 3 December 2019. Mr Spirtzis also knows very well that the redemption procedure provided for in the bill will be a long process. And I'm not even talking about the period of coexistence of OSH and PSH. And I am sure there will be a transportalalalum. I'm sure we'll live unique moments in Thessaloniki. This development, however, fully serves governmental methods, as well as this account will go to the next. With this method, the government will be told that it has shut down the waste of OSTH and will satisfy the popular feeling without putting up a single euro. The major question, however, raised here, ladies and gentlemen, is whether you will be allowed to keep the successor to the OSH. Because I believe that neither the most optimistic member of the co-decision believes that the institutions will applaud the transfer of the two thousand private-sector workers from the private sector to the public sector, even if you join them in the single wage bill. Nothing can convince me that while Athens' urban transport and the metro of Thessaloniki - when that is the case - are already in the supermarket, will S.H.I.E.L.L.D. remain in public? How do you think you know this very well yourself? So you will be forced to another proud cubicness as soon as the reception comes from Brussels and one of Mr. Tsipras's many election'moles' campaigns will be turned into an honest compromise. In conclusion, I would like to say that we all agree that Thessaloniki deserves much better urban transport than the ones it has. And clearly there are major political responsibilities for the long-term depreciation of the city, for abandoning the so-called co-chairman, for misery from the fact that the city has been left with a unique means of mass transport. However, I am absolutely sure that if, in the past, another government dared not to abolish, but to sing the privileges of the OSH, many of your members would have been forgotten in the streets. They'd already paralyzed the city right now. We would probably see images from the 'Collands' era. You will remember, of course, all PASOK colleagues or those who took over from PASOK that there were moments hanging from your bars at the port of Thessaloniki. Today there is no card moving in Thessaloniki. Finally, the Central Association agrees that radical changes in the way the OSH operates are needed. But we disagree vertically with your methodology and your micro-political interests behind it. That is why we shall vote 'at present' in the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u15	Do you mean "residents" in principle, Mr. Fokas?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u16	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u17	We reach the last of the special speakers, Mr. George Amyras from the Potami, called the Stepma. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ancient Rome, enclosed and enclosed, was protected from the walls and as a protective deity had Janus, the two-faced god. Those who lived within the walls, the citizens of Rome, saw the face of Janus smiling on the gate. For the insides Janus was good, he was attractive. Those who came from outside to the walls of Rome saw a goddess appalling almost, aggressive and hard as if he were saying to them "Stay where you are. Do not mess with Rome.' Thessaloniki - a long history of thousands of years - had its own modern god - protector, OSTH. Two-faced OSH. Private where it brought him, i.e. profits, to the closure of the profession, to the State at the same time - his other person - when the state subsidy was to come, when he was going to charge the losses to the public fund. Of course, there was also a tight hug with political parties and local MPs. That's a common secret. I don't think I'm telling you anything new. Allow me to mention just two - three characteristic issues that made OSH a problematic business, a private business hybrid, but a state-runer, mainly based on the subsidy money he was receiving and various other alchemys. The evidence is really outrageous. Subsidy from the State. When every road transport vehicle, every bus in Athens was subsidized with 55,000 euros a year, in Thessaloniki every OSTH vehicle was subsidized with 210,000 euros a year. The four concessions were signed in exchange for the monopoly in Thessaloniki. So we're talking about perpetuating a monopoly regime. The last economic agreement that applied until 2017 what did he say to us? The guaranteed profits of the OSH in advance were about 16.5 million euros a year. Give me such conditions, and I'll take you to Mars, to the moon and wherever you want, by bus, with blowjob, with whatever vehicle you choose! I do not particularly want to mention the question of workers who have been a peculiar situation. Some of them were shareholders, they were employees, they were trade unionists. So we had a hybrid, a garden that absolutely had to be rooted out, because it had weeds at the expense of taxpayers' pockets. In the explanatory memorandum to the bill, we see that there have been significant discrepancies between scheduled and scheduled routes. However, they were paid for the planned projects. We have seen signs and issues of mismanagement. We have seen something very serious, too, that it did not apply the Community and national legal framework for financial transparency. So here I come, Mr Minister, to ask you this. The OSTH file, contracts, commissions, leases, leases among OSH shareholders at a multiple price of real estate - renting themselves their own properties - will you look for them? Will you send them to the D.A.?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u19	We've sent them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u20	Have you sent them? Are you going to tell us here some of this evidence?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u21	Everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u22	It is a good thing to make the findings, but we also need to take a step further.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u23	He's your favorite minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u24	My favourite Minister? He's not my favorite.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u25	You like style.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u26	Calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u27	Anyway, we're going down. We therefore have a milestone, as we said yesterday at the meetings of our committee. It's 2019. European Regulation 1370, as I said yesterday often, does not tell us exactly what to do. It tells us neither to do the Athens-Thessaloniki urban transport private or state transport. It tells us "liberate them" and gives the choice to these two cities to sew in their measures, their needs and their specific features the costume of the urban transport they choose. So what do we say? That this liberation that comes in less than two years is a golden opportunity to develop urban transport both in Athens and Thessaloniki. I'll tell you after our proposal, although I've repeated it many times. Instead, Mr. Spirtzi, dear Minister, I have the feeling you're playing catacomb to remember the bad Italian football. Of course, it's changed since then, it's been opened, it's become more aggressive. What's your humiliation, Minister? You say to everyone who is related to OSH - apart from the shareholders, of course - "I will make you civil servants, I will make you a state body by 2019 and then we see". This 'we see' is the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u28	That's not what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u29	That's how I translate it, I interpret it. I hope you'll tell me exactly what you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u30	You will hear it in the Minister's speech in a moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u31	For when all the employees, all the assets, the value, the trains, everything goes to the Greek State, the successor of the OSH, and the Greek State owns the one single share, what is this body? It's a state organization.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u32	What can we do? Should we fire them? What's your proposal?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u33	I'll tell you what my proposal is. Since you mentioned this, now I cannot avoid the temptation to answer my dear colleague, Mr Triantafylides, who is a double colleague - both journalism and here. What did Mr. Spirtz tell us yesterday that I, too, asked him this very thing? I asked him, "What are you going to do with the workers?" And he said, "They are a number of MPs' rosés, they are the workers of Ministers,..."
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u34	Ex-wife.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u35	Yes, ex. Of course. "...it's a shameful political system and a family." And I tell him Mr. Spirtzi: “Why are you taking them then? Why are you being a laundry such as this? Why do you clean them up?" You, Mr. Spirtzi, said "he was outside S.H.I.E.L.D....
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u36	I see, Mr. Triantafylides. Don't do it again what you've done now. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u37	All right, Mr. President. The president of the workers is here and he listens to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u38	You can see where the observation was going. Well, I don't give up. It's forbidden! We're on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u39	So I was saying what you said yesterday in your dentistry, wondering if they went through SAP. And I tell you, "yes, to pass through S.H.I.E.L.D. anymore. Why do you become old-fashioned laundry? What's changed? Did something change?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u40	Didn't you hear? I answered Mr Karamanlis earlier.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u41	I heard your answer, invoking the right to work and the 1979 law. This 1979 law can easily be overcome. One amendment and we're cleared. So many amendments are'raining'! Isn't that right? You have a goodknowhow on this issue. I remind you that OSCE has already been transferred to the superstate. We know the fate of Athens' Urban Transport Agency, don't we? It's going to be a tough privatization. That's for sure. OSH by a special private-public business model is now becoming state-run from 2019 onwards what? I would like to hear, Minister, how you see the liberalisation of urban transport under the European regulation. What do we say? We say, first of all - to be practical - that the transition from one shape to another must be done in such a way that the Thessalonians do not stay for half an hour without urban transport. That's the least. But what do we say? We say that Thessaloniki's urban transport should be privatised, not privatised. They should be privatised by the following steps, as they have been observed and followed by other European countries. I mentioned the examples of Barcelona and Milan yesterday. As far as London is concerned - because I have looked into it - you should know that any extension, addition of a route, any change in the operation of urban transport is done by cooperation between the municipalities and chambers, not even of the state, their central government. So what's missing? The boldness is missing. It is missing that we can look openly and high where healthy private economy forces can offer jobs, offer a high level of transport services. But there are certain conditions for this. The first and main is the state's strategic planning of specifications, rules, routes, frequencies, level of service and environmental sustainability. A purely independent, truly unaffected regulatory authority needs to be established, which is responsible for complying with the quality standards. And the third step, as we view urban transport in Greece and especially in the major cities, Athens and Thessaloniki, is an international competition based on the European acquis, based on the public interest, the opening up of the profession and the high quality of the service. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that only through the path of right, good and efficient privatisation can the country come to light. And we're talking about private health, with rules. Because you usually respond to me with cases of private business or private individuals who have escaped from under the regulators' radar and are doing their heads. We are talking about the private and tax-paying company, which creates new jobs, which it is innovating, which it is investigating, which is moving forward. This is the recipe for success in urban transport too. And now, if I may, I would like to make a little comment on Article 28, according to which: “... whoever blocks, blocks, in any way or means, or refuses access to offices, train stations, OSH assets, etc. is punished by imprisonment of up to three years, a penalty of EUR 10,000 and a deprivation of civil rights for five years." What am I telling you, ladies and gentlemen of the government? I agree, I am in favour of this provision. I just want to ask - and it is not rhetoric, is it political - the present ministers and colleagues of SYRIZA: Do you think that such provisions should be applied and anyone who prevents access to a store in Ermos, to whomever breaks the property of a person who wants to work? So I hope that this provision of Article 28 will be a definitive political divorce of SYRIZA mainly with the minds and practices it had used in the past, which was not a occupation that does not warm it up and does not accept it. Now that you see that some may react, some teams, I don't know who they will be, will they be the 'I don't pay'? Who else will they be? With the "I'm not paying" you're divorced as well - you're evolving. It is good, however, to develop not only in practice but also in your word, so that there is no such ambivalent situation as we refer to the Janus, from which I have begun my position and with which I shall be closed. This is where we don't want Jano. This is where we want the goddess Athena. We want the goddess of wisdom, we want the goddess of vision, preparedness, compliance with the rules, transparency and efficiency. That's what Potami is doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u42	Thank you. We now come to the speaking time of the Minister. With the consent of this House and, as I have done, of all the speakers and because the Minister may want to say five words about the amendments - I am not referring to Mr Lazarides, I am referring to the others too, regardless of whether they are incorporated - you will allow me to put fifteen words instead of twelve minutes, because they may not reach twelve. As far as I can see, you agree. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have received a country that had lost much of national sovereignty and a society in degradation. The mandate we received from the Greek people was to get the country out of the nightmare put by the governments of New Democracy and old-fashioned communism. We have undertaken the country with binding policies and economics, which have nothing to do with our ideological position and our political intentions and positions. We are committed to this effort, to finish with the programmes and commitments of others to the lenders, with the fewer losses for the Greek people. That is why, from the outset, every day and every commitment becomes a constant and painful negotiation. We haven't changed or surrendered. Where we can conduct policies in line with our own viewpoint, our own proposals. And OSTH is a typical example. Most of the commitments for the degradation of Greek society were unfortunately proposed by Greek forces that were identified as lenders in their extreme neoliberal version. That is why they left outside their proposals the spaces that they were reproduced, which had been fuelling for decades and still fuelling old-fashioned communism, which still maintained and conserve specific structures and specific members of the political system. In northern Greece, OSTH has been one of the castles of old-fashioned communism for sixty years, one of the areas forgotten by the "reformers" of the New Democracy and those who worked with them by continuing their rich donation, an economic oasis of waste of public money within the country's greatest economic crisis, within the daily sacrifices of the Greek people. The fact that these "great reformers" forgot OSTH, when they did not forget to incorporate into the country's commitments the slightest detail in order to restore the working framework, the social state, health, education, all healthy productive powers, shows the magnitude of the hypocrisy of the major self-determined reformists of the neoliberal New Democracy and those who have joined this concept. At the meetings of the Trade Committee the New Democracy attempted to say that it tried to change the OSH. Let's see how. The 1957 Convention was renewed to the same logic and philosophy until 2001. In 2001, the government of Costas Simitis, Minister of State, Mr.Verellis, concluded a new contract, one which had only been stable and guaranteed was the shareholders' profits. This contract provided that in 2010 the movable and immovable property of OSTH would be held by the Greek State. What, then, did the New Democracy attempt to change OSTH? He extended the contract in 2008, as Minister of State, Mr Hatzidakis. For how long? Uncircumcised, forever. It extended the Convention one year after the adoption of the European Commission regulation, in full knowledge and consciousness of the fact that it was illegal. The New Democracy did not send the Convention to the Court of Auditors, as it was due. Why? Because he knew that both because of the regulation and the illegality he involved, such as the ending of the contract, would not be approved by the Court of Auditors. Listen to what luck! The confirmation of the 2010 date for the transfer of the assets of the OSTH to the Greek State was forgotten, as if depreciation were moving! We ask, gentlemen of the New Democracy, why, since 2010, some of your governments left the property of the Greek people in your mechanisms to OSH, and did not come to the Greek State? For what? You maintained a sixty-year scandal to reproduce certain MPs, mayors, newspapers, site, your mechanisms in Thessaloniki and northern Greece. The results? Table one. We have also given it to the committees, so that all the Members will have it. OSH and OSH grant, stable in front of OSH. In 2007, OSCE received 100,000, OSH 110,000,000. In 2008 OSCE took 102,000,000, OSH 121,000,000. In 2009, OSCE took 105,000, OSH 127,000,000. In 2010, OSCE 94,000, OSH 139,000. And he goes by saying. [[At this point, Minister Christos Spirtzis presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Of course this was not the case with the compensatory payment which the Ministry of Transport only gave, but also with the international original arbitration system which existed in the Convention and was confirmed in the extension. That was not forgotten by Mr. Hatzidakis. What else do we have as a result? When you have such a contract, the 'healthy private sector' that claims and defends the so-called New Democracy, you have the gum as a private individual to pay your obligations. The accumulated and outstanding liabilities to third parties on 19 April 2017 are 119 million. In detail, it is the following: IKA is 9 million, VAT and taxes 17.5 million, the payroll of staff was then 3 million and every two months it was repeated. The employment promises had nothing to do with not paying the Ministry of Transport the compensatory payment. It was going backwards. We gave them beforehand in order to pay the prizes. But OSTH did not give it to workers. He gave them to loans, obligations and, of course, to their pockets, to their profits. I continue: Taxes in favour of IKA 4 million 700 000, contribution in favour of EKKA 4 million 800 000, PMY and other remaining taxes withheld 711 000, VAT March 2 million 100 000, suppliers - big issue - 3 million 700 000, bus contracts of 4 million 900 000. It's the maintenance. Compensation for redundant 240 000, rent - another big issue - 3.5 million, union contributions accumulated 4 million, dividends of shareholders 8 million. Alas! Payment of EIB loans - how did this agency have loans with such a subsidy? - 9.5 million, etc. Of course, a set-aside reserve of 34 million. They had to have a lot more. There is no euro of the reserves that OSH should have. Mr President, he's not used to it, but I'll do it. I'll finally testify to the SEEME conclusion. He's on CD, too, to get it, and any congressman wants it. It's rich material, it's also the D.A. So, what does the UFO's finding say? ‘OSTH rents trains and central offices by the Procuring Association of Cars of Thessaloniki “HRAKLIS”’. Not the demigod. They are the new demigods, those of the New Democracy! "The rents are from 70% to 143% higher than supposedly. The rents shall be calculated at the fixed cost of the OSTH and shall be taken into account in the compensatory payment, when they are income for the ‘HRAKLIS’ cooperative owned by the majority of OSH shareholders. That's a nice trick! The staff. Between 2010 and 2015, the increase - because you are proud of it - is presented by the drivers with a minus 12.44% in their payroll and by a greater increase in administrative staff, plus 15.45%." Amazing! Bravo! You're in favor of the people who work! So we have an original wage policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u44	Now that you're cutting them off 30%...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u45	Mr. Karamanlis, talk to the workers. Many of them you have appointed...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u46	Minister and everyone, with the president, please address if necessary.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u47	So ask them. It doesn't take the majority of workers with amazing wages. The "elected" of yours and the administration of the OSH receive amazing wages, as usual.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u48	And it's a time-consuming charge, as usual, on your part.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u49	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. As usual, especially on televisions. Free movement cards granted to officials as provision in kind are ‘wrongly registered’ to staff remuneration and expenses, so that OSH does not declare to the State enough hundreds of thousands of euros each year plus VAT. We have a wide selection of the direct award of contracts concluded by the OSH, such as the LINK TECHNOLOGIES company - there has a special contact - with four other companies -. We have differentiations in indicators of the router between the OSH elements and the liquid fuel stations and the comparative statements of the EUROMAT. We've got the depreciations. That's what SEEF conclusion says here. On August 31, 2012, the Minister at the time, Mr. Hatzidakis, allowed the Region of Thessaloniki, the Transport Department, to extend the traffic of ninety buses for three years from 15 years to eighteen, in breach of the law setting life-time for fifteen years. He came after N.4313/2014 and legalised this illegality. He did the amortization at twenty years. I'll give you Mr. Hatzidakis' document. If we were to provide such documents, we would be in the 'independent' news releases of channels a quarter. I am also tabling the OSH balance sheets, which seem to me to be an exception to the calculation of interest on contractual expenses, even though the OSH is doing so on several occasions. The Government of New Democracy also legitimised this with L.4313/2014. Of course, OSH's transport work is at least 15% short of what it should have done. L.4313/2014 you have him, but I will testify to him, because it is good for any Member who is interested in having him. I'm also making a list of overdue obligations. [[At this point, the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport Mr Christos Spirtzis presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It's also the evidence of how you wanted to change OSTH. Mr. Hatzidakis opened the operation of the OSTH telematics system on 11-4-2008. And he said: "I take the hat off to OSTH that quickly and with little money to implement telematics, which is an example for Athens, which does not yet have telematic urban transport. I believe that we will overcome the problems arising from the competition process and in 2010 we will also have telematics in Athens." This was underlined by the Minister during a meal presented by OSTH to the Velides Conference Centre, celebrating the 50 years of the Agency. Last year we built the telematics system for Athens, so we don't even forget about it. We continue: "There is no doubt that in recent years in Thessaloniki there has been an effort to upgrade urban transport. For the metro there have been many attempts, but the project has gone ahead." Alas! "In recent years, buses have been introduced, a single ticket has been introduced, a special service has been set up for the transport of HEIs. The new OSH contract was signed and telematics was applied. The new Convention updates urban transport and protects the environment.’ That's what Mr. Hatzidakis says. "With the work of telematics, the daily life of the passenger is easy. It is allowed, on the one hand, to check the work carried out and on the other hand, to allow the passenger to be informed and to know when the bus will come.' And with regard to New Democracy's changes, it says that the new convention modernised urban transport in 2008. It says other interesting things, such as the sound announcement of attitudes, etc. Of course yesterday the Mayor of Sykeon told us that the systems were dismantled, because the municipality disagreed with the administration of OSH as a sign of democratic behaviour. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] And after Mr. Hatzidakis was celebrating for OSTH and his contract, we go to other evidence about how you wanted to change OSTH. Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u50	I am simply making an interruption and pointing out that, at 15 minutes - an increased time I have given you - you have only spoken about the past.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u51	I'll talk about the bill, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u52	Yeah, but I can't leave you unlimited time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u53	I'll talk to my second.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u54	I'll leave you five more minutes. Get in the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u55	In my second speech, Mr President, I shall also speak about the future if time is not enough. For us, then, urban transport is not a mere economic activity of transport. It is directly linked to the daily lives of the citizen, to social policies, to the urban environment, to quality of life and to the efforts of the country's productive reconstruction, to fair growth. This is why we need, especially in the metropolitan centers of Athens and Thessaloniki, to have public control, public character, social control and planning. The draft law provides for the establishment of public urban transport, such as in Athens and in many major cities in Europe, and do not hide these. Mr Amyras, there are too many cities in Europe in public transport. It provides for transparent operation, tenders in accordance with public procurement law, social policy. It does not allow for the continuation of infringements, it does not allow no competitions to be carried out, it does not allow CSR, which oversees the functioning of the OSH, to have no access to electronic systems for the routes that are carried out. It does not allow for a structured system of arbitration, which every year is unresolved without control of millions of euros. It does not allow fines to be imposed on the unemployed, who do not have a ticket, and then those fines are paid by the State, the fines not the tickets. It does not allow trains to be rented by cooperatives of the same shareholders. It does not allow anything, not everything, but you have participated, to reproduce yourself as the oldest-fashioned system in the country. It is obvious that this policy is at the forefront of the most centrally neoliberal concept of privatization of everything, the least state of Mr Mitsotakis. But in the case of the OSH, the least state, the so-called private sector of the New Democracy and the reformers, has been revealed. When you invoke the private sector, you do not mean healthy production forces in the private sector, you do not mean the producer, the craftsman, the trader, the free trader, the worker, you do not even mean the industrialist. You mean the state-owned individuals who reproduce you politically and premium your mechanisms and supports. What have you done about the transparency and the functioning of the OSTH and other shops, to call it popular, such as your banks and other selective escorts, which each citizen pays for decades on a daily basis and their deficits and profits? You have continued to premium the opacity, subsidies and aid from the citizens' empty pocket for the benefit of the profitability and coverage of their deficits, your private sector. This is your private sector. Deprivation, therefore, is the very opposite term of deprivation. It means discharge in critical areas of social policy and strategic areas of the national economy of state-owned oligopolis and monopolies that supported you. Who's changing politics? Mr Karamanlis, I understand the remorse you always have, through the President, both for the loss of the ideological position of the New Democracy to a special neoliberalism with extreme right-wing shades and for the historical responsibilities of your responsibilities in the field of urban transport and especially OSH in Thessaloniki. Let me remind you, just so that there are no known communal distortions, that the urban transport in Athens has joined the U.S. It's not for privatization. If it were, they would have joined the format of the New Democracy and any of the supporters of the Samara government in the TIAD. However, I say that it would not be bad on some issues not to forget your past and your leaders and others, because you accused me of diving in history. No one will blame you if you remember Constantine Karamanlis - within your party they may blame you, but from the outside no one will blame you - or Andreas Papandreou in specific areas. Because you keep asking about the institutions, why are you asking us? Why don't you ask your executives who work with institutions every day? So far we have, the Vice-President of the New Democracy himself admitted that he was talking about not closing the evaluation or about questions of evaluation in order to go to elections. We didn't go. We have the mute meeting - this is another originality - of your President, Mr Mitsotakis, with Mr Shoeble. What did they do and meet? Did they drink coffee? I mean, it's terrible. What did they say at this meeting?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u56	They were looking in the eyes!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u57	We have the position of your MEPs in the European Parliament, who are looking at anyone who is responsible for the Greek Government. Today, Mr Karamanlis, you are coming back, the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u58	For the bill, Minister, will you tell us?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u59	Minister, you're closing down with this supplementation you're doing, there's no other tolerance. Twelve minutes you've had your normal, I've left you twenty-two. You said what you thought, but at twenty-two.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u60	So I shall end with the past with this reasoning and in my denology I shall speak about the future. Mr. Karamanlis, I'll take a dive in the past. It doesn't suit you. We respect our opponents and historian leaders of our opponents, but we do not forget who ripped off tram lines and fixed tracks, who licensed OSH and specific interests to build mechanisms. We don't forget that. We respect, but we don't forget. In order to go back to today, in how the same system is reproduced in Thessaloniki, yesterday the Mayor of Sykes denounced our Deputy Minister, Michael Papadopoulos, for 2014, that he had brought an amendment to the House to delete OSTH's debts from the Municipality of Sicily. Another evidence is the testimony of the president of the Thessaloniki CBEL. Man was moved - quite logical - about how you forced the CCEEs - private sector - to give more than EUR 1.5 billion to OSH. I'm sorry, I meant 1.5 million. Then the trolls will start on the internet that we're confusing the numbers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u61	Please, Minister, don't make me turn off a microphone. It's the last warning.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u62	I'm done. We're not talking about S.H.I.E.L.D. who was paid for by OSH to oversee him, and I'm just finishing with how much deprivation will cost and the rest I'll tell in my head. You'll tell us how much deprivation costs. What I'm going to tell you is that OSTH's assets since 2010 belong to the Greek State, OSTH's alleged claims are equal to what it owes to the Greek State, so how much do you think it costs? In the second place, we will be talking about the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u63	Well, here's how the process goes. Mr Dendias will now be given the floor as the first parliamentary representative in the series, then two colleagues will speak, Mr Triantafyllidis and Mr Kalofatis, followed by Mr Xydakis, two colleagues later, one parliamentary, third in the series is Mrs Zaroulia and the fourth that Mr Theocharopoulos has asked for. I say this, so that any parliamentarians from the other parties want to say so, because we are going not in the parliamentary order but in a statement. I'm sure Mr. Dendias will give the answers. I'm just going to make a small violation, Minister. It happened and I am in Stepma and seeing my colleagues in the New Democracy I am the only one who signed the founding declaration of the New Democracy at the 1st Conference in Halkidiki. Another time, then, that I will see to it that I am under as speaker and you as Minister, who will defend another bill, I will answer you for all the reports you have made in the past, praiseworthy but you have not said them and everything. Mr. Teddy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u64	Mr President, thank you. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will simply begin by pointing out that the Minister, despite the calmness of the tone and the formulation of his thoughts, has not avoided the stereotypes, the well-known stereotypes of evil past in relation to the bright present and prosperous future, the bad previous governments in relation to bright current governance, which solves problems, corrects errors, leads home to a better future! I must say, of course, that the Bureau has also noted that it has consumed not only the whole of its time but almost twice as much time as the one provided for in the Rules of Procedure, without saying a single word about this piece of legislation. I would like to begin by saying that I have never seen, Minister, the Minister, saying that on the basis of the legislation I will speak to you in my dentistry. Usually the ministers speak of this, of which they are recommended. So here we have 'new demons'! You have given the New Democracy responsibility at the edge of your speech for sixty years. The New Democracy was founded in 1974. Obviously in your next speech you will give us responsibilities for Charilaos Trikoupis, Theodoros Kolokotronis, Pericles and I don't know, you may reach Klistheis, Solonas and so on.- Oh, my God! I imagine that somewhere in the Pelasgows, which the Greek genus appears, you will stop! We will not be responsible for it, and that is why we will not be responsible for the way the Donors are approached! You'll stop there somewhere!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u65	The forefatheric sin!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u66	So let's go down. Mr. Hatzidakis, of course, had his honour. He's not in the Chamber to answer you. We are usually not talking about absenteeism, but I must tell you that all you did not say is - because I noticed that you referred to a meal, which was given and during the meal he said, did and perform - what was on the menu of this meal in Thessaloniki. Everything else you've told us about the past. But, ladies and gentlemen, I'm not going there. Let's just go see, this super-hard government, which receives all this intransigent chaos of sixty, a hundred, two hundred, a thousand years old, what is being proposed to us today? What's he telling us? What is this, which brings the National Representation as a solution - here we do not mock - to a real and recognised problem? The Minister's exaggerated reference to the past, his attempt to sabotage the present and the future by taking responsibility for the past, does not mean that we in the New Democracy and our rapporteur, Mr Karamanlis, have not previously acknowledged that there were issues. After all, in Mr Karamanlis' analysis of the existing legislation he referred to a problematic past, for which efforts have been made and some of them have not been achieved. But let's see this government here, who's slaughtering them all, stabbing them all, knowing everything, correcting them all, what's being recommended? Excuse me, I rarely speak in plenary from note to note, but here because of the many initials I will have to bend from time to time. So what do we got here? Does it buy the public, does the Minister recommend, the Thessaloniki Urban Transport Agency - that calls statism - against what honour? Unknown honor. In Article 25 of the law, it has a misguided way of calculating the price, which it implys, or says sotto voce, I will cook them and be zero. But, on the other hand, it ignores - in this government - Article 106 of the Constitution, for which the Scientific Committee of Parliament is also making special remarks, and tells him that these cobblestones - do not say so, but that is the essence - do you not forget them? Because it is obvious that the price will be determined by justice and by all these zeros or nothing, etc., which it has in mind, if the Minister has it in his mind, only applies in the context of the ideas and fantasies of this government. So since he is stacking against honor, which we will end up in court and pay OSH, what is he doing? It puts it in liquidation and creates another body, the "ASTH S.A.", to which it assigns the same work. In addition to this, it abolishes the existing Urban Transport Council, which supervised OSTH and is a new regulatory body, the ‘OSH SA’. So we have neither too much nor too much there, which we were sitting well and having a lot of problems, the Minister coming in and making two new legal persons, one over the other. And it leaves a huge problem in the past and a court dispute open to the Greek State in the future. This is the initial resolution approach. We can't afford this mess. All of this, the two new faces with the two old ones, as we have said, fall under the "SYSTEM S.A.", which is the public holding company, which comes under the S.A.S.S.A., our well-known superstition of L.4389/2016. In other words, every bus, which walks in Thessaloniki, will move, will have over four bodies, four boards, four agencies and, on the other hand, will have an argument from the previous legal person, for which we will run and no one knows when we will arrive. And that's all it was? The long-term solution proposed by the Minister, after twenty-four minutes of charges for the past, what time does it have? One will tell me fifty years, a hundred years. After she mentioned sixty years back, won't she have sixty years in front? This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its Am I right? Because this deserted Community legislation comes, which we are supposed to know, Regulation 1370 of 2007 and says so far. From that point on, look for an exception. Ladies and gentlemen, if you'll excuse me, are we serious? Are we serious? What I described can withstand any criticisms? Let go of the past. We've misunderstood here for an unlimited period of time all of us. Can we come up with something serious about the future? And is it possible for the future of Greece's second largest city and its transport to be this? Transport is not a secondary issue. Transport is in line with and correlates with the right of human personality, its ability to circulate, to be free to move, and indeed with a price which can withstand it, because otherwise its basic freedom of movement and, therefore, the right of personality is abolished. That's the truth. That is the truth of the current constitution, that is the truth of the European acquis. This truth, with these parameters, must safeguard every government which observes the Constitution and the European acquis. Are we defending this truth here with this proposal? Is it possible for these things to be said today in the 21st century and to have as an excuse sixty or a hundred or two hundred or three hundred years in the past? Explain to me, so we can understand. As much as one comes in a good mood, willing to help, contribute, listen, choose, reach consensus, how can he do so, when dealing with the other side, dealing with the government is first an endless 'category'? I will not say this, Minister, critically, but in any case, I will also ask you and the former PASOK members who are part of the SYRIZA to be a little careful about what they are talking about in the past. Because they actually have a personality split. Their past is blamed. For most years since '74, PASOK has been in the government of the country and PASOK has largely shaped what is now the country. But that's not what we're talking about. You want us not to go back? Let's go to tomorrow. But that can't be tomorrow. And you will allow me to say that it makes me some other algal impression, and I want to tell you and share it. Do you see, if you like, Article 28, the criminal provisions here? How do these criminal provisions explain? Look, the country has a total criminal law. The country's criminal law must tell you, the Criminal Code, is an excellent piece of legislation. It is a piece of legislation that comes from Roman law, and it actually portrays a progressive part of German science with all the kneadings of Roman Law and Byzantine. Our Criminal Law in recent years has become a raven. Kureli, really. So he comes here and introduces a special criminal provision, which says in Article 28 2A, which states that anyone who hides, alters, sells, refuses to hand over or blocks amortised mobile and immovable property of the OSH, is punished by imprisonment of up to three years, with a penalty of at least EUR 10 000 and - take care - with the deprivation of civil rights for five years. What's that? This special criminal offence here, which is referred to both in amortized and undeclared, frankly, who thought so, Minister? Could you explain to me, please, and who thought, and the issue of the deprivation of civil rights?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u67	It's a great fantasy!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u68	You know, you put me in this bad thought - and here I express to you, I have no certainty - that the deprivation of civil rights obviously has something to do with local self-government. That someone would like to prevent you from being a candidate in some municipal elections, because, otherwise, five years of deprivation of civil rights for a crime, all of a sudden, created specifically here, without explanation, I fear that it cannot be a product of legal innocence, which I must tell you does not describe as your Government. Behind what we see, there's always another reality. And a second and third reality, sometimes and fifth and sixth reality, and with your permission to say even less. But, ladies and gentlemen, you who are declaring human rights, tell me here this special offence with which someone is eating five years with a deprivation of identity, voting and voting, voting and voting, choosing how do you justify it? How do you justify SYRIZA? I leave the Independent Greeks. One might say they have another approach. How do you justify it? How will you vote? If tomorrow morning, is there a protester going and what's he doing? - refuses to hand over a bus for any reason, will you say that he will well be punished with three years in prison, 10,000 fines and five years in which his political rights are dropped? That's gonna be...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u69	And little is.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u70	There's a few of them. We need to put a little more on it. Tell the Minister that this is leniency. And so we will have the new criminal law SYRIZA, with which anyone who is breathing, who is moving, who expresses an opinion against SYRIZA law, should, in any case, eat life, because we have abolished the death penalty. Otherwise, if we could, we'd do it. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I want to be honest. I am sure that both the New Democracy and our rapporteur, Mr Karamanlis and I, and our subsequent speakers, Mr Kalafatis, Mr Gülekas, and I do not know who others have signed, would like to come here, to deal with another understanding, Minister, so that we can jointly lead to some solutions and some consensus on a real problem of the second largest in size and not necessarily in importance - perhaps the importance is greater - city of our country, Thessaloniki. You did not help us with the text of your legislation and I am sorry to say that you did not help us at all with your initial position. I don't have much hope for your dentistry, I have to tell you. There's the old good start that good day is seen from morning. If it starts with clouds, thunderstorms and rains, it's hard after sun comes to noon. But, in any case, hope is the last thing that leaves mankind. I may have hopes for your dentistry, but I must tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that both of us in New Democracy and most of Greece's society our great hope is your departure! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr Nikolaos Teddy, Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy. We shall now proceed to the list of speakers. Mr Alexandros Triantafylides, Member of the SYRIZA, is called in Stepma. You have the floor for five minutes, Mr Triantafylides.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr President. Although time is valuable, as a MP in Thessaloniki, I will always talk about the next day. The Side One with a sceptic report for the next day, as if there were no previous one, keeps putting you on the question "Look who's talking", "Look who's talking." Are they talking about Thessaloniki, who left it for sixty years with a single mass transport instrument, with OSTH, with the thousands of problems? Those who took maritime urban transport and boats in 2004, who would transfer people to the summit from Macedonia Pallas to Warehouse III at the port? Those who in 2004 equipped - and well did - and betrayed our beloved Athens, our capital, with six public transport - electricity, tram, suburbs, suburbs, suburbs, "terrestrial" etc., are now coming here today for this reset, for this restart, to give hope to Salonica and Salonica of one and a half million and speak? They say, are you serious? Are we, like, serious? They discovered that Thessaloniki is the second city population in the country. The clear, lasting, flowing six decades, certification of the country's unbalanced development. One hell of a means of transport in Thessaloniki. The hostage status, not only when the workers were strike, as they were entitled to strike, but also when the snow and salt that was frozen by the Mayor of Thessaloniki forced them to walk for three days from Kalamaria to Valaoritou and Ermos. We are here, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, also MEP I of Thessaloniki, as expressors of popular sovereignty. We represent the people and citizens, neither interests nor trade unions. The many of us are represented. So we give meaning to our presence. We didn't fall out of the sky. They sent us. Who is that? The devastated, the despised, the desperate citizen, who takes the bus from Venizelos Street to Eusmos and Cordelio and anointed by the communiqué cannibalism touches his head on the glass, as he thinks he will pay rent and electricity, how he will get his child's care. For this citizen, it makes sense to be here. You're saying we're ideoleptic? You have consumed hours if it is state-of-the-art or privatization or if it is neoliberalism. Is that what you think concerns Thessaloniki and Thessaloniki? Here, the mayors - nobody of SYRIZA - and they said - I record lectures, strawberries: the plight of OSH, painful, traumatic situation, worse every day. Stupid buses pollute the atmosphere. Wait thirty-five to forty minutes. The mayors who don't belong to SYRIZA said so. So it is a question of seeing what he was going to submit in the Minutes, but you already know it, from the most Syrian website voria.gr - a few days ago, Mr Mitsotakis also gave an interview - which he has revealed for six months the following. I will read only one item to you: From the non-return of money to those issuing tickets from automatic cancellation machines within buses, OSH benefited in 2015 EUR 436 270, in 2014 EUR 429 000, in 2013 EUR 453,000. A total of 1,566,000 euros. This is from the audit finding for OSTH the inspector of the Ministry of Transport. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Alexandros Triantafyllidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I asked Mr Stefanidis yesterday: 'What did you do with it?' You stole 1,566,000 euros from the one who puts 1,5 euros and takes 40 minutes back, change. They don't give change to the time of technology. Couldn't they give change? That is why the President of the OSH did not have a convincing answer for the change we did not give. From there on, they discovered the chicken that made the golden eggs, the special hermaphrodite monopolies. The head in the state, but the body, that is, the pocket, will go to the private sector. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, if you're kind, give me a minute. I'm speaking as a Greek MP for our compatriots. OSH has damage. Shareholders don't. OSTH owes but at the same time pays the shareholders profit. The damage to the state, the profits in our pocket. It reduces drivers by 12.44% in 2010. The drivers were two thousand six hundred twenty-five. In 2016 there are two thousand thirty-three drivers. Drivers down. But come on, where the administrations are growing 15.45%. Why? We asked yesterday and we didn't get any answers. He rents himself a train. It's not "Yiannis buying, Yiannis drinking". It's Hercules and Hercules drinks! What do we Thessalonians say? I asked Mr Stefanidis yesterday: 'Have you done an evaluation every two, three years? You asked the world, the people with questionnaires, etc., sixty years?' And the Consumer Protection Center, KEPKA, and in 2014 he asked eight thousand seven hundred eighty-four consumers, who replied: I'll only tell nineteen. It is considered that the reduction in traffic frequency is a major problem. 97% see overload as a major problem. 94% consider the increase in the price of the ticket to be a major problem. 90% sees the lack of air conditioning as a major problem. 83% sees the lack of cleanliness as a major problem. 88% consider the old age of the buses, etc. to be a major problem. That's the situation today.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u73	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u74	That bet, Minister Spirtzi, we won it. The other bet on the next day is that we have to win and it is about Thessalonians: Metro, urban transportation of Thessaloniki, maritime urban transport. That's the next day's bet. From the stories of Halima, the gateway to the Balkans every September by the former Prime Minister, to the systematic, methodical, daily work with Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras present in Thessaloniki every fifteen days, as promised. We Thessalonians want it the next day, and that's the bet you're calling the Ministry of Transport to succeed. We are fighting for the removal of the current situation, the increase in the frequency of the routes, the rapid service. To tackle overcrowding, not conspiring people in attitudes and buses. We need air conditioning on the buses. Be with chains of buses when the snow falls. Be the fleet renewed. We want to re-route nights and take care of people with disabilities. There are two hundred and fifty stops for people who don't see just twenty-five stops have the sound signal, so they can recognize exactly where they are and where they want to go, as are the special buses for the mobile disabled. We leave the "sinner" OSTH and go to a three-year, really, upgrade, improvement. It is another bet that we will win with the workers and the citizens of Thessaloniki. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr Alexandros Triantafylides, MP of SYRIZA. Mr Stavros Kalafatis, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u76	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the whole handling of the OSH case on the part of the government is a political caricature when the debate was initiated for ten months, where the city was often afflicted by the analgesia and inability of the government to solve the problems of urban traffic, and so we had the multi-day strikes that afflicted the average weak Thessaloniki, the one who cannot either take his car down in the city nor, of course, use a taxi. All handling - caricature was transferred to the Greek Parliament even to the invitation of the relevant bodies. People who had nothing to do with offering, for example: a member of SYRIZA, a former chairman of the Bar Association, and were not invited, ladies and gentlemen, the most competent body, the most competent body, which is the department of the Technical Chamber of Thessaloniki. Of course, I should like to point out here that there was an absence with responsibility of the Mayor of Thessaloniki, who was not even represented, although it was called. Of course, we have heard the Minister continue to deal with this issue, with reasonable caricature, by making reports from the past. Let us speak, ladies and gentlemen, finally with clear words. A large part of SYRIZA is expressions of the old, 'good', orthodox PASOK. The government has been talking to us about the past of the New Democracy, when key government officials, ministers, ministerial executives, secretaries, have nursed for many years those logics that have created terrible pathogens in the operation of the Greek state over the old Orthodox PASOK, which, of course, has been transformed to a great extent, I mean his executives and, of course, they have many of them and the ministerial perpetrators and have the courage and talk about the past? Of course, the abstraction of this caricature operation has just been made by the Minister himself, who has actually achieved the impossible. In any case, this government is being run in an unbelievable reasonable manner. From the twelve minutes available he used twenty - four to avoid talking about the bill. Only the SYRIZA government can do that. However, let us move on to two - three basic things, ladies and gentlemen, and let us finally speak in terms of truth, because this case concerns too many people and not just five ideologically applied left-wing politicians. In most European cities public transport is supervised by public or municipal enterprises and, of course, not by state. The myth that all over the world buses of urban transport are state-owned is inaccurate. For anyone who has lived or traveled abroad, the difference is obvious. There the municipalities are not a political extension of the parties. They are self-government organizations with the "A" capital. They are self-government organisations which have an economic, administrative and can, of course, play their part in the way that the circumstances require. At the same time, in most cases, organisations supervised by the municipal authorities are of a mixed, private and public nature or are used by private service providers. In addition, in all major cities, the main public transport operator is the subway, i.e. the fixed track operator, and the bus operates in addition and inevitably with great losses, which are, however, covered by the main body, i.e. the metro, because the network is overall. What does all this mean? The very simple and self-evident fact that the design and logic of transport is mainly about self-government - and in many cases, perhaps not alone - the service is, however, guaranteed by the provider, usually private, and also by network co-operation. And that makes sense, because what body is best suited to making planning in the transport of a region, if it is not local government and, of course, how best does it not ensure that the best possible cost for the citizens is provided, only if a public tender procedure is chosen, where a private provider will come to offer his services? Obviously, in the case of the OSH, everything was not working well. Obviously we are also one of them - and our rapporteur and the Members of the New Democracy - who know that rationalisation was needed in the operation of urban transport in Thessaloniki. But, of course, it is not the answer that comes with this bill. The answer is not to welcome "Great Pateroulis" again in Thessaloniki, to do Thessaloniki Soviet suddenly overnight. The right way is to open up opportunities for transportation in Thessaloniki. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that within this period of one year, the Thessalonians were troubled. It is true that there is a need to find a way to provide better services to the citizens of Thessaloniki in the most appropriate way, which will ensure the least suffering for the Thessalonikins. However, what is now being attempted, with a bill to bring nationalisation to both planning and operational planning and direct printing and planning to the citizen, I think it is something that does not serve anyone. Minister, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, I think, is taking a big step backwards with this bill and it would do well to rethink it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u77	Thank you Mr Stavros Kalafatis, Member of the New Democracy. Mr Michael Jellonis, Member of the PASOK-DMAR Democratic Association, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as well as being well-qualified as you are to see a bill brought by SYRIZA - ANEL, such as this one, where, first of all, we believe that the historical cycle of OSH has been closed for Thessaloniki, leaving not the best impressions in relation to the transport project that it has offered to the city, governmental manipulations are the ones that, in fact, are causing you. Today we are discussing a bill in the form of an emergency. Was there any reason to discuss this bill in the form of an emergency? Oh, no! It is introduced as a smuggling emergency or virtual urgency of this bill. On the other hand, for one year what kind of manipulation do we have on the side of the Minister of Transport in relation to the city of Thessaloniki and the city of OSth? For one year the city has been afflicted by not complying with the contract. As a result, workers were able to make use of the right to strike, suffering for many days the inhabitants and the city's visitors. People were also outraged by the district commander and mayor running to the Prosecutor's office to solve the problem. They followed secret agreements with OSH shareholders to reduce the wages of employees, leaving them to believe that the Ministry will find them somewhere with them. Workers again denounced the shareholders, announced mobilizations and proceeded to strikes. Minister, the contract is in force, because it has been ratified in 2008 in the Parliament, and until at least December 31, 2019. It was also noted by the Legal Council of the State under its opinion No 320/2016. Therefore, on 10 March 2017, the Deputy Prosecutor of Thessaloniki finds that, as a result of the failure to discharge contractual obligations undertaken by the Greek State towards the organisation, he was unable to pay the employees. We have all now entered the spirit and philosophy with which you are acting as coexistence. You are running to check things with this bill against Regulation 1370/2007. In a recent letter sent by the Prime Minister to the International Monetary Fund, he commits that after July 21st 2017 he will not make any state-of-the-art reform and will reduce the number of contractors. How much of the month do we have today? It's July 19th. That's why you're running to bring in this bill. With this bill you are stacking OSH when Athens' state-run urban transport, OSCE, put them at the supreme for privatisation. In short, the Minister, with one hand, sends OSCE to the Supreme Court, and with the other hand holds OSH in Thessaloniki. Let's go cover the history of the OSCE in Athens with a so-called revolution in Thessaloniki. This is, unfortunately, the reality. What the citizens of Thessaloniki need to know is that we are now passing through the private state-owned monopoly of OSH, unfortunately, to a state monopoly of the Ministry of Transport. The statisticism that you are going to impose and the way you go to do it will lead to a complete deadlock for the transportation work of Thessaloniki. It is no accident that the accompanying report of the General Accounting Office of the State cannot predict the total cost of the entire project. Ladies and gentlemen, today, if you were a truly responsible government, you should have come here and submitted to us - after a year when Thessaloniki is suffering - a seriously processed proposal with the city's self-government bodies, the productive bodies and all those involved in a draft law, which would provide for better and quality transport in Thessaloniki through a public body. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. However, this bill does not give the slightest guarantee and the slightest guarantee that something better will be created, that it will offer better services to the inhabitants of Thessaloniki, than to what existed before. I would like to ask you at this point: we are listening, Minister, that under control there is a mismanagement in the OSH. Did you send them to justice? Only justice is competent to rule. Why are we going to be wound up in operation of the agency, which is almost certain that it does not guarantee a smooth transition to the new regime? Also, do you have any evidence to tell us how much less S.H.I.E.L.D. will cost, in accordance with the goals you set? Will the ticket remain cheaper when in the first category in Thessaloniki it is 1 euro, compared with 1,40 euros in Athens? If you bring this to us, we will be able to speak with specific figures rather than with good intentions. Why? Because for two and a half years you've been in the government, we've been full of good intentions. First, then, you will bring this information and then we can, if you like, discuss it in minutes. The message, therefore, as a Democratic Reconciliation is clear. We ask for public transport, modern, European and modern, which are designed in cooperation with the people of the city of Thessaloniki, who first experience the needs of the city and not the awe of the Minister concerned. Because in both the institutions that you are recommending, both to OSH and PSYTH, the five are appointed by the Ministry, by the Minister concerned, and the four will be merely decorative. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] That is why we are asking you to make open public transport, modern, European, with a decisive role for the self-government and the Labour Centre, which you have excluded from everywhere. Why do people express the workers and the productive bodies in Thessaloniki if not the Labour Center?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u79	Complete your thoughts, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u80	I have finished with the bill, Mr President, but I would like to say for thirty seconds how the Minister perceives parliamentary work and parliamentary control, who has designed the thirty-eight tolls on the Egnatia Street, when for a month and a half - he puts forward a topical question every Thursday, trying to make a parliamentary debate on the three tolls set up in the Serres Law, where he suffocates a great deal of cost in connection with the transfer of people, products, etc. in the city of Thessaloniki - the main minister constantly declares a ministerial emblem. When you are probably responsible, Minister, you are probably permanently absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr. Jelloney.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u82	Why? Why are you bringing urgent bills and you do not have time, or does your agenda allow you to do so from the ongoing trips you are taking in Greece, so that you can launch other projects? But once you come and we'll see you, in relation to the major problem that you're creating in Serres Prefecture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr. Jelloney. The Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mrs Eleni Zarulia, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u84	Thank you very much, Mr President. I can only begin my position with a comment on some of these monstrous things that have been heard just now by the Minister. Nor too little nor much did the former first-class parody ask for the change from the governments so far. "What have you done all these years," he said attributes. Come on, de! What did you do? You've been ruling all these years and you've made this place, the PASOK and the New Democracy. I also did not understand what he meant by the word'received'. Mr Spirtzis received, being in PASOK, who ruled until the day before yesterday, and today he was found to be Minister of SYRIZA! Oh, my God! Incomprehensible things about someone who knows things and has no short memory, of course. Before I refer to the draft law, the current timeliness and the raw anti-institutional intervention of the government in matters relating to justice obliges me to put forward an outline of issues that do not concern the bill under discussion. However, because they concern the Parliament and the Greek people, it is my duty as Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn to comment on the unequivocal abolition of the discrimination of powers which the government has attempted, on the grounds of an unsatisfactory judicial decision against those who have been sentenced first to participate in terrorist organisations. I shall therefore prove, in a few minutes, the provocative attitude you take towards justice and, indeed, an issue concerning violence, terrorism and other similar phenomena, which not only refuses to condemn but you sometimes welcome by means of notices and sometimes by questioning judicial decisions. The SYRIZA rights sector therefore issued a communication stating that justice leaves Michaloliaks out and confiscates Heriannes. Yes, sir. In this context, however, it must be stressed and heard by the entire Greek people, so that it can be understood and clear that Herianna Vasileiadis - Linardakis was sentenced on 1 June 2017 in prison of thirteen years - without the recognition of any lightweight and without the suspension of the sentence, to participate in the Conspiracy of Firearms, to take possession, possession, transfer and conceal weapons and ammunition, with a view to their release to third parties for the purpose of committing a crime and illegal supply of groups and organisations - by the Second Third Court of Appeals of Athens. On the contrary, the Golden Dawn is not dragged into the courts for committing criminal offences, but for fighting against the junta of the memorandum and for threatening the electoral survival of the then New Democracy government. Therefore, the former Prime Minister himself ordered a court offense he controlled to confiscate an entire party with Stalinist methods and procedures, which - let's not be fooled - rejoiced all parties of the allegedly constitutional arch. Michalolian and Golden Dawn MPs did not go indictees either because DNA traces were found on weapons or because they belong to terrorist organisations, as is the case with the solidarity comrades of Herianna Vasiliadis. At this point I ask: does this have anything to do with the State Secretary for Sports Georgios Vasiliadis? Well, we've got to talk, then. An entire party was confiscated following a disgraceful podium and the Secretary General of the Golden Dawn Nikolaos Michaloliakos, along with the other MPs, was released on restricted terms, after the eighteenth, because this is what the legislation stipulates. There is therefore no possibility of a further detention without a judgment being given. We know that you have a matter when legality is respected. In addition, strict restrictive conditions are still in force today. The leader of the country's third political force according to the election results and not the electoral cooking in here, is forbidden to use floating and airborne means. I am presenting it to the police department concerned three times a month, as a representative of the Greek people, when common criminals only give it once a month. Let go of the story, therefore, in part, because we were neither given a favour nor enjoyed any special privilege, as you indirectly insinuate. Such illegal dealings of the underworld with power concern the so-called constitutional arc, precisely because it represents both qualities. In particular, you are a government that exercises the most ferocious form of oppressive power in the Greek people through the memorials, but at the same time you are also a government of solidarity, caress for the para-states, who runs in demonstrations of solidarity with terrorists, who speak with them, promising favorable legislation that accepts and maintains the unbelievers, who are rebelling when a transgressed rebel, a partner of hers ends in prison, rather than bragging about his achievements through para-state websites. Being occupied by complexes and post-war passions, you claim to overthrow a judicial decision, just because it is not your pleaseable. But know that toys with justice are dangerous and no one has the ending of dreams when intervening in her work. And your obsession with defending terrorists proves one thing only, that power protects euphemist anti-powered, and that they would not exist without the enthusiasm and protection of the system. This is the case of terrorists, whom SYRIZA defends in court and parliament. On this occasion I would like to ask what the Ministry of Forest intends to do, with the extensive incidents caused by your comrades and destroyed the property of our compatriots. Really about the murderous attack on the tourist from your "child", metaphorically or even literally what the other person else has to say and - especially when he is going to blame Golden Dawn - without proof of Toskas? Is the information true that you're looking for the perpetrators to appoint them? Let us now move on to the draft public transport law. The governments of the Memorandums privatise everything that can be exploited in terms of debt servicing, such as ports, airports, gypsies, profitable state-owned enterprises, such as the OPAP and, at the same time, they are ensuring that our energy deposits are mortgaged on foreign lenders. This is mainly because the state wants to avoid charging the state budget, which is already in debt. The transfer of assets from the State to private or private individuals - in this case loan sharks - is supposed to generate profits in the State funds. The indirect confession of the state incompetence about rational and good business exploitation of our assets therefore concerns everything that comes from its ownership. So who guarantees that a state-owned OSH will not go bankrupt or on purpose to such an extent that it will be transferred to the hands of the superstate in the future? At this point we remind the Greek people that you have appointed as CEO the daughter of former MP of DMAR Xerotyris - Catherinearis and now Syrian Urania Catherinearis, who is subject to an infidelity and therefore accused of crime. I mean it. Regarding SYRIZA's argument that state intervention hits monopolies and corruption, we have to say that corruption exists both in the private and public sectors. The OTAs are the biggest outbreaks of corruption in this country and the mismanagement of state revenues has led to the crisis and the need to create loans even with false statistics, which is also demonstrated by official studies. Will the inclusion of the OSH into state-owned enterprises exalted the corrupt public sector in itself, or will it be corrupted by the public, as was done in the case of the OSE, which was eventually sold out against a lentil plate? Is there a serious study to prove that state care will prevent a profitable business from future bankruptcy, with whatever it implies for the urban transport of Thessaloniki, the workers and the shareholders? If the question is to pass the urban transport in the hands of the state, then this should first prove that it is fair and always within a timescale, with regard to the development and investment projects it is called upon to implement. Therefore, instead of finally building the Thessaloniki metro for which funds were slashed and the whole of Thessaloniki was converted into a vast construction site, instead of hitting the complexion and corruption by taking the custody of a project that will offer the local population so much, the government chooses to make a private business, ignoring other as important issues as the above-mentioned one. Mr President, did both of you, Ministers and State Secretarys leave?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u85	We've alerted and they're coming. They went out for a while, Mrs. Zarulia.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u86	Okay, that's okay. The Greek people are listening. What guarantees can the government give? None of us at all. Can the Minister assure us that there will not be a single job lost or no appointments made on the basis of party state criteria, as is the case with recruitment to the public and non-governmental organisations? If an employer is no longer a State, will the wages of the workers be equivalent to the wages of the people with whom he is "promoting" the citizens who do not belong in the category of occupants and, instead, other trade unions and workers eat with gold spoons, see PPC? It was said by an MEP of SYRIZA within the parliament that OSTH has always been the pillars of the right in Thessaloniki. Now, in other words, he admits he wants to statize him to make his companions comfortable. The People's Association - Golden Dawn requires the Government to make an express commitment to the non-resale of OSH to a private person, i.e. a new privatization - a sale to the GOI immediately after the stateisation. Clearly, we stand up against this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u87	Thank you to the Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr Zaroulia. Mr. Grego, if you have no objection, will Mr. Theocharis speak so that you do not get involved?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u88	I have no problem with that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u89	Thank you. Mr. Theocharis Theocharis, Independent MEP, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u91	However, it is not customary for Parliament to do so, Mr President. The government won't listen to you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u92	But I think, Mr President, that he should be notified of this because it is not possible for the Minister to be absent. We're making a review of him.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u93	We're here, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u94	No, no, it's not like that. Mr. Theocharis is right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u95	It's compulsory to be here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u96	Right, right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u97	Not only the Minister. The government must be present.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u98	Obviously.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u99	Oh, of course. Somebody's got to be here. This cannot be the case, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u100	You're right. I guess they're coming.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u101	It has never happened before, Mr President, or at least once in ten years.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u102	You can continue, Mr. Theochari.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u103	Let's start with the hard stuff. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy and PASOK, have you made your self-criticism? Did you like the situation of the last few years in OSH? Did you explain and find the reasons why you let a situation end up like this by a admittedly good situation in the 1970s? What does the SEEF conclusion that the Minister submitted a moment ago? It says, mismanagement, adequacy, fewer drivers and more administrative staff and as a result of fewer routes, more allowances and direct assignments. Did you think well of the mistakes that today allow the Minister to criticise you by bringing this bill, which actually turns us back many years? Thank you, Minister, for listening. You have lost criticism of the New Democracy. You'd be a little happy. I hope you can stop confusing where I come from. Will you stop or not? You are letting Mr. Spirtzi today, ladies and gentlemen, state in the year 2017. In 1983, the PASOK brought the Enterprise Reconstruction Agency two years after the rise in power. Today, Mr. Spirtzis is starting his own reconstruction agency. You see, it copys the PASOK right into the day. Two years after SYRIZA's rise to power, it begins with new statisms. We're back in 1983. Of course, Mr. Spirtzis hasn't hidden it, it's where he's manned, this attitude reproduces, that's what he wants. It's the heart of PASOK inside SYRIZA. Mr. Spirtzis, formerly shed for fifteen minutes crocodile tears about mismanagement. I really heard and moved you, Minister, for all these problems you have encountered. I would believe you if you were not the man who dissolved OSCE, who, from an attempt of bandage that reached some small profits in 2013 and 2014, led him back to 70 and 100 million profits. I would have believed the Minister if he had tried to oversee OSH for the two and a half years, changing the composition of the supervisory board and force them to gather. You had to be strict in order. I would have thought of you if you had accepted OSTH's proposals, which were scared and suffocating, they were here, rushed to tell you to put a message, to reduce the findings, to make it a better situation, and if they didn't reach you, to demand more and, of course, by sending the findings, and any findings of the old ones to the prosecutor. Another one. I would have thought of you, if you had testified, Minister, as you personally committed to me in the committee, the conclusion of the HELLEN then, to see and study it not now for the sake of fireworks only for the sake of impression. I'd believe you if you weren't trying to get the Legal Council of State to get you out of the contract. When you asked in November 2016, and in December 2016 he replied that they were not void and are not illegal and incompatible with the regulation, you buried his opinion and came here - the distinguished lawmaker - Minister Spirtzis - to tell us that the conventions are incompatible with the regulation. I submitted it to you then, and now, Mr. Spirtzi. I read exactly what the conclusion says at the end. Besides, he tells you, the contracts are legal because they were ratified by law by the House, at the end of it he says: "b. Contracts themselves do not contravene the provisions of paragraph 3(d) of Article 8 and paragraphs 3 and 4 of Article 4 of Regulation No 1370/2007 and therefore do not raise any question of their invalidity, but their duration shall end with the expiry of the transitional period of that Regulation.’ [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Theocharis (Haris) Theocharis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] All the argument you supported, and the necessity of the bill and the urgency procedure, goes away. The PSK, of course, likes you when the Prime Minister wants to write a letter to Mrs Lagard, accept it all, say "please, come back" and use the opinion of the State Legal Council on the constitutionality of pension cuts. There is a good Council of State. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. But I don't believe him, Mr. Minister, because all Greece knows that you don't care about corruption stopping. You are interested in stopping the corruption of others to replace yours with corruption. What was the problem with OSTH? First, opacity. The special company was created by a law of 1957, no one knows the blog and so forth. Change the anonymous company tomorrow to finish. Second, the lion contracts. Negotiate, bring them by law to ratify them all here. Make them right. Thirdly, lack of supervision. Change the council, put your own people in command for rigour. Fourth, long-term monopoly. That's where corruption is. Start an immediate competition procedure. Fifth, state money for investments that are being smashed. Stop it. Anyone who wants the project will do their own investment, and so the state will only subsidise the ticket and special population groups. Instead, we have nationalizations in 2017. Instead, we have two thousand thirty-three intakes that will prevent equal recruitment to doctors, nurses, taxiers. But you see, our priority is for the bus managers, they need it. Instead of them, we have a new nursery to grow new corruption, public recruitment and so on. Instead, we have new costs, which the General Accounting Office of the State tells us very thoroughly, and they will be tens of millions for the Greek people. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm closing with this. You failed to negotiate, you accepted everything. Failed to QE, you didn't get it. Failed to debt, he went back for 2018. You failed to get out on the markets that you advertised to us that you would. Failure to unemployment for young people, which falls only because most of them leave abroad. It is not enough to say 'they did the same'. It is not enough to say 'in two and a half years what to make of it'. It is not enough to say 'we have not lied, we have deceited'. The Greek people want better. The Greek people deserve better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u104	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u105	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr President. I take the floor why personal reference was made and where am I coming from, and that I wrongly accused Mr. Theocharis. Mr. Theochari, you complained that I accused you. You told me yesterday that you belong to the right conservative forces and neoliberalism. Wrong. I'm asking you humbly apologies. Where do you belong? You belong to the right-wing social democracy, you belong to the forces that both in our country and in Europe have displaced the socialist forces from where I come from, they leave where they come from and went where they should always be. And we got a divorce with policies like yours for the simple reason: you gave an alibi to New Democracy and neoliberalism - not to the old New Democracy - to bring the country here that brought it. That is why you do not want us to make sectoral and real reforms, you want us to make a change in the OSH convention. We're giving you that. We did not want it, nor do we want it politically, nor do we manage it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Minister. We proceed with Mr. Antonio Gregos, Member of the Golden Dawn. Here, Mr Grego, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr President. I'll see to it that I'm also within the time limit. We are also being watched by the workers, but also by the passenger audience of Thessaloniki. We heard the Minister. We pointed out the problems in the urban transport of Thessaloniki under parliamentary control. We had met both with the President of the OSH and with the workers, and we also expected some good and enforced changes. Nice and useful telematics and transport, but for the transparency that you say you will implement we have serious reservations. After all, you are also beinghaved in old-fashioned manners. The problem is that we too, but, above all, the workers and the passenger public, do not believe either the Prime Minister's words and announcements or the Ministers. Procedure for the urgent procedure for another bill, again with the relevant amendments and, unfortunately, only three minutes' information from the operators and five minutes from the speakers on such an important issue. I was even impressed by the absence of the Mayor of Thessaloniki. Not that he'd give a solution or help something. I'm just pointing it out. I don't think many of you use urban transport either of Thessaloniki or elsewhere. And if you used them once, now you've stopped. Especially you SYRIZA MPs. The Thessalonians lived and live with false and voter promises of the metro. "Metro now" wrote a poster. Metro, metro, metro, all the city's potential mayors promised to deal with this great problem in transport and to fish for votes. The public of Thessaloniki must be served directly, human, financially and consistently. At the same time, human working conditions are guaranteed for thousands of workers. The work of the OSTH workers is difficult. They carry people, and this must be done safely for everyone. Let me remind you here that the road network of Thessaloniki and the whole region is in a terrible state. That is why the previous governments and yours are responsible. I have tabled a relevant question which I shall give to the Minutes. "The need to fold the Oriokastro-Thessaloniki street" The OSTH positions should be constructed and transferred. I'm presenting it to you, and I'm expecting an answer as usual. [[At this point, MP Antonio Gregos submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It is not your Ministry's responsibility but, on the occasion, inform your colleague, Minister, that people are being killed every day and vehicles are being destroyed. I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has put into it. How much will the state buy-in of OSTH cost? What the operating costs of the new operator are. Is it going to be bigger or less today? Where will the money be found in order to renew the fleet? Will attention be paid to the already entrenched environment? I'm talking about the pollutant emission that's too big. What exactly is the way in which the transition to the public sector of workers and the organisation will take place? Will you once again apply what you are doing and now with constant party choices? The lenders have been informed? We know that lenders can also criticise and reject such actions. The project will ultimately be for the benefit of the city, the citizens or the public, that is, quality and perhaps cheaper than transport today? He's gonna need a change of equipment, obviously. I'm talking about canceling machines, roofing, etc. Has this cost been calculated? Let us say here that the cancellation machines on the OSH buses do not give any change. What status will there be in terms of attitude and vehicle advertising? Will it cost the taxpayer less? Is there a study for this? What happens when this government changes? Are we going to have changes again? Are we going to witness privatization such as at airports, ports, EEAS, ELVO, OSE and elsewhere? What about the many cases of violations against workers in the urban transport of Thessaloniki? We have seen a lot of serious incidents in the Athens region. But there are such cases in Thessaloniki too. It makes us a terrible impression of the obviously unconstitutional article 28 of the bill on penalties. Not only amnesty but anger, when in the country there is complete immunity to many criminal acts of your companions or former partners, even at your expense. In a country that is unbaptised in Exarchia, in universities, in entire blocks of building, in a country that acts with the cover of the state and the parastate, the well-known loading baits of left-wing and left-wing, in a country that expressly prohibits arrests of criminals with a known identity and place of residence and actions and speaks of penalties as described in this article. You are left whenever it suits you extremist liberals when you get orders from loan sharks. The rapporteur for the Golden Dawn mentioned in detail in the bill and stressed that Article 13 is a positive provision, because it safeguards workers' working rights by absorbing them, but we have our objections because they will be included in the single wage bill of Law No.4314/2015, resulting in a reduction in their wages. That is why we are voting'residences' in this particular article. You have proved to be inadequate in almost all areas. We're afraid it's going to happen now. New Democracy, SYRIZA, ANEL, PASOK are monumental forces. The memorials are proven to lead to impoverishment. Do not blame each other, because you are applying exactly the same policies against the country, the people, the workers, and that is why we are firmly against you. Finally, stop rinsing terrorists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u109	We proceed with the parliamentary representative of SYRIZA Mr Nikolaos Xydakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this debate in plenary and also in committee, as it has been held, is of interest because, with the attempt - let us say it - deprivation, resolution of an agency which has been based, as it has been based for sixty years, on the Thessaloniki Transport Agency, we have in a way a overthrow of dominance where private companies are superior to public companies and where privatisation is panacea for each side of the world, under any circumstances. I do not know whether this belief is so easily overthrown, but in this case, according to what has come into the light of publicity and what has been set out in the debate in committee and what is being said in plenary, we understand that this organization, founded in 1957 at one of the historic peaks - the first peak of the post-war period marked on the one hand by rapid growth and on the other by the full establishment of a post-war state based on the client networks and the exception of large sections of the population - is a very interesting leftover of a way of organising the economy and production. We have, in other words, a private body which is indifferently subsidised by the state, the state guarantees its profits, and this body, over the years, builds up a protected guild that holds a hostage of a city and a population, which offers bad services and is finally evolving into what we have in front of us now, in an organization with bad services to the community and a organized'shoulder' of political clientele. I think that by analogy - I do not want to be equitable - this model of organising the economy and the country's productive fabric is called 'pelaceous parasiticism', and so the organization of the economy in the country has been organised for many decades since the dominant elite. This weak, sick in the core of the economy, when faced with the first major international crisis, kneeled, scanned, and unfortunately drifted under the ruins of much of the Greek society. In this historic period, we are living this historical transformation, together with all the thoughts that the international environment can give birth. So the substantial debate and this reorganisation of the Agency gives us strong motives and stimuli to think politically. Today, in 2017, by many serious analysts in many international think tanks, at many international conferences, we are discussing where neoliberalism, the neoliberal model of organization of economies and societies, which leads to the exacerbation of greed and attack and to societies and the natural environment, where democracies, which are in fact threatened by this neoliberal riot, leading to the asymmetry of power between democracies and large companies, the large multinational corporations. Especially for Greece - let us come to our own case, which we have been in a historic tunnel since 2009-2010 - there are urgent questions raised for both the citizens and the elected, the people in this Chamber and transfer the pulse and the agony of the citizens, the change of productive model for the country and the urgent need to regenerate the administration, the regeneration of the democratic state. These are the big political questions we have to answer. These are the elements that have not had strength and strength to withstand the exacerbation, delirium of credit over-expansion and ideologies that have embroidered the social body, excessive lending, indifferent consumerism, parasiteism, faith in parasiteism, loss of faith in work, honest entrepreneurship, devotion of the public interest, common good, the democratic state. It is therefore imperative - and this is our duty to ourselves, to the citizens, to the society that supports us, against the younger generations that turn back and unearth - renovate, to recharge what public space means, what public interest, what it means to us, what it means to us, what it means to us, what it means to us, what it means, what it means to us today, what it means, what it means, what it means, what it means, what it means, what it means, what it means, what it means, which is modernly operating, organic, which is linked to the needs of society, a democratic state. And how do we reinstate the relationship between public and private, the relationship between people, people and collectiveness, the relationship between persons and state mechanisms, ultimately in the fundamental balance between democracy, the balance and the relationship between freedom and equality? Nor is freedom alone, as classical liberalism teaches, ensures the balanced development of societies and only violent equilibrium ensures the passage to the utopia of socialism. The 21st century puts us against such questions. The very Greek reality, full of pathogens, full of challenges, full of disquiet, but also full of powers, human powers, people who seek - and we are all looking for - a new person for a democratic Greece, leads us to them, so that we can think and give answers. Let's not hurry in easy answers. Our works and actions will be the best answers. The transition of the Thessaloniki Transport Agency to a public company of a beneficial nature that is healthy, functional and will serve as a whole is a great challenge for the planning of political leadership, for the business plan, for the business plan that will make it sustainable and functional and for the abilities of the legitimate public administration, if it can rescue a sick parasitic business and make it healthy and stand on its feet. I don't expect any responses from the Opposition. The opposition, in many cases, is governed by this use - proven, that is to say, in what we have experienced since the past decades - of the state as a prostitute and as a vessel for its reproduction, for the reproduction of its power, for the forces of the Left, the Democratic Left, which are now being tested in some new models, in some new customs and new standards of power. These are great challenges. I hope and hope that we will respond in a way that is functional and democratic and in a way that leads to fair and sustainable development. That's the challenge. I believe that the political leadership will stand up to the circumstances. We will be here to judge the results and actions. I would also ask that we proceed with the approval and crisis of future actions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u111	Thank you for the parliamentary representative of SYRIZA Mr Nikolaos Xydakis. We are on our way to SYRIZA MP George Diaras, who I call on him to come to Step for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Nikos Xydakis gave a general theoretical framework in which this bill is also in progress. I'll add some to what he said. In the debate that took place in the committee, it was evident from all the institutions of Thessaloniki that the Organisation of Urban Transport of Thessaloniki had a major problem. Mayors, workers' organizations, professionals, all of them, expressed their negative opinion on OSH. Everyone said that the sixty-year regime should change. There were only disagreements about how the new body would be and about whether the project promoter would be public or private. Unfortunately for our country and for the citizens it was almost a rule: where there was public money, there were also the patrons, the eagle who would benefit at the expense of the Greek public, at the expense of the people, ultimately at the expense of the economic independence of the country. And of course, there was the political climate, the political tolerance to these games. Is it accidental that the Sochazopoulou brothers were found with shares in OSTH? Was it just a coincidence? Have there been other political persons with OSH shares who have been sharing for decades of certain money? Also, what kind of contracts were these between an organization and a Greek State? These were contracts that were extended and the last extension of 2008 had the condition that the contract would expire when the metro and its extensions were over. Because the metro extensions are done all the time, the contract would ever end. What contracts were these? Who signed such contracts? The agency should break down and the shareholders should normally take the dividends. There are people, ministers, who signed these conventions and are Berelis, Hatzidakis and others. This is by name and surname. Obviously, the New Democracy and PASOK parties did the well-known miracles. They did not protect the public interest, left the doors unguarded to speculators and the well-known ones who became the country. With the bill we are discussing it clears the landscape, the Company Agency of Transport Projects of Thessaloniki is founded for the development, coordination, supervision and control of public urban transport, ground and ground, fixed track, as well as maritime transport, except for OSE and CBEL. The OSE draws up the strategic planning, control, design, outsourcing and overseeing the transport project, controls the programmes, designs the stations for the transfer, etc. The Board of Directors includes the bodies of government and professionals, the Region of Central Macedonia, the Municipality of Thessaloniki, the Regional Association of Municipalities of Central Macedonia, the Chamber of Commerce, the TEI, the Chamber of Commerce, etc. I consider it reasonable, Minister, that the Thessaloniki Labour Centre should also participate in the Board of Directors. It makes sense to ask workers to participate without vote. We must add this with an improvement. My view is that self-government first and second grades must have a major role in the transport of their area, and I would say dominance also in the design and execution of the transport project. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, I would like two more minutes. Find a way to involve self-government and share capital, to carry out the transport project in the urban transport services of Thessaloniki, and to cover 49% in equity. So don't leave a blank letter. The question of whether transport work is better to make it a public-interest company or a private company, everyone answered here with their political and ideological theory. As regards the public nature of the Thessaloniki Urban Transport Company, the New Democracy has its permanent ideological position: "all in private capital". That's the recipe. This is the New Democracy programme for banks, the media, energy, communications, transport. All in business. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I have asked for a short extension of time. It is known that production units, factories, trade, etc. It is impossible for the State to manage them effectively. This has been tried and failed. But there are other forms of organisation of production, such as the social economy, cooperatives, small and large citizens' partnerships in a balanced relationship with the private initiative. If society does not keep key functions socially under control, such as power distribution networks, one - two banks, communications, water, SMEs are at risk of being fully subordinated to multinationals. This is a little - they were very working and with governments after the Century. Between the two ends, all state or all private, there is a reasonable measure. My opinion is public control with decentralisation and particular weight in self-government, municipalities and regions. In order not to forget the necessity of ecology in any design and, in particular, in urban transport, I asked the Minister to exist and to enter the logic of sustainable mobility. Movements should be designed in holistic terms, i.e. roads, bicycles, metro, trams, transport, taxi, maritime transport, a single design. It's very important. The Minister agreed with a legislative improvement to add that all this will be done in the logic of sustainable mobility. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are correcting things that the PASOK and New Democracy have not wanted to correct for so many years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr. Giorgos Diaras, MP of SYRIZA. Before we move to the next speaker, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories, after being toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, twenty-four students and students of the Hellenic American Organization AHEPA, Webster University. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Christos Bukokouros, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, first of all, let us clarify one, two political, ideological issues that emerged in the debate on the bill in particular in the committees. You, Minister, and the majority Members of the House too, have made very friendly efforts to convince us that private transport systems have failed. Wrong, Minister. Private transport systems have failed neither in Greece nor abroad that operate very successfully by offering excellent services to the passenger public and profits to the shareholders. OSH has failed, and that is what we all agree. In short, it did not fail the private sector that succeeds everywhere in the world in all kinds of services provided. A distorted organisation has failed, for which we are all co-responsible, and I will explain why below. Do not forget, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, in order not to use examples of foreign affairs and to remain more familiar with examples from Greece, that, throughout the country, there have been many decades in large urban centres such as Volos, Larissa, Heraklion, Patras, Yannina, the urban and ultra-urban CBELs in the form of consortiums, i.e. public based companies, providing excellent services and ensuring profits for shareholders. The city's urban Kappa Tau, mentioned above, also serves the most remote districts. The ultra-urban CBELs also travel to the most distant village with one or no passenger. However, they continue to provide services that are excellent and profitable to the shareholders. Therefore, it is not a matter of property ownership that an organisation operates, regardless of the pathogens that can be developed in a private body or a public body. The second political issue raised by the Minister and the majority Members is the oversimplified question: But, well and what have you been doing for sixty years? Really an impressive question. But I am sorry, Minister, because the answer will not satisfy you. At first, we cannot compare unparalleled things. The current property regime in its current form has existed since 1977. Previously, there was another form. From 1977 until today it has been forty years. Twenty years of our own governments - to speak this language - with their responsibilities, Minister, but also twenty years of governments from the party from which you come, as well as the majority of the members and voters of today's ruling party. In order not to ask you what your co-pilots have been doing for forty years. Of course, you may take it slightly as an argument, but in this Chamber no one comes from virginity. We must not forget that. But let's see today.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u115	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u116	You want to interrupt me? I'd love to.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u117	My colleague says I was a PASOK government minister and I didn't know...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u118	Then you will speak, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u119	My license is there.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u120	No, there won't be a dialogue like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u121	You were first-line executive, Minister, and you're not the only one.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u122	What do you mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u123	Minister, you'll answer that later if necessary. Keep going, Mr. Buquoir.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u124	Three percent of what happened? Baby boom and there's 36% of PASOK? You're a deep old PASOK! That's what you are!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u125	Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u126	But let's see today. I and New Democracy, as understood by our rapporteur Kostas Karamanlis, are in fact unable to defend this distorted OSH system. This does not, however, mean, ladies and gentlemen, 'the tooth hurts, the head cuts'. You are seeking temporary impressions, you are wearing the left mantle, you are addressing your narrow party core and you are talking about statisms instead of seeking the best solutions based on world experience, as well as the needs that exist today. The results of this operation are obvious. There is no guarantee in any part of the bill that better services will be provided to the Thessalonians and, above all, there is no guarantee that the Greek taxpayer will not come again to cover the black holes of his post. But I don't think it's any of your business and you're interested in all this, but things are in the back of your mind. It's the superstition! As all went to the superstate, the state-run OSH will end up in the superstate, because by private property regimes it could not, of course, be transferred to the superstate. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And while today you are closing the eye on the left core of your party and talking about statism, tomorrow the bad lenders will be responsible, as did the heroic negotiation after which you signed the memorials one after the other. Our rapporteur, Costas Karamanlis, rightly told you that you are the best students of the school "Sicago". I'd say you're the most obedient students and the most persuasive organs of the lenders. They have literally found their joy with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Mr. Bukkaro. Mr Christos Spirtzis has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u128	I understand that the New Democracy has nothing else to say. Let me make a statement to get this over with, because other escort forces have said so, who have left the Chamber. I'm a socialist. I was born in 1969. I have never been a PASOK MEP nor had I ever had a public post, either PASOK or other governments. I was an elected trade unionist from my colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u129	On what side?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u130	With the break-up in 2000 in the Right Social Democracy that served you and that you worked together. Let's get this over with!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u131	The PASK didn't support you?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u132	Of course I've never been on Mr. Chohatzopoulos' team. Good?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u133	Good, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u134	To solve the questions of Mr. Bukokouros and all the others.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u135	In such a clear statement for the first time you've been making.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u136	Mr. Bukkaro, so you know what's going on on on this side of the hill. The hill side, therefore, has very specific and clear features, but also deep separating lines that have passed them and when they have passed them, they have paid. The problem isn't on this side. This is where things are clear. On your side, it's a mess. You say to us - how successful the policies of neoliberalism and your private sector, not of healthy production forces, and since we are talking about urban transport, tell us about them too - how successful the privatisation of Athens' buses was by Mr Constantine Mitsotakis. Everyone remembers it and the entire Greek people and that is why the Greek people will never allow neoliberalism and the New Democracy of Mr. Mitsotakis to do the same thing in Thessaloniki and Athens you have attempted in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u137	Mr Athanasios Theocharopoulos, Parliamentary Representative of Democratic Partnership, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u138	Mr. Theocharopoulos, don't say you're a socialist too...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u139	Minister, you're causing me. To see who the socialist is, who is a social democrat, it is enough to see what policies everyone is following. I think that's how we can solve any questions we have. And because you said, dear Minister, that you are committed to getting the country out of the memorandum, I can tell you that your government's policy of not progressive and socialist and socialist can't be characterised, but not even centralised. Targeted, you said you were to get the country out of the memorials. You can't find the target then. It doesn't explain any other way. I can't give any explanation. And you have done - you say - continuous, painful negotiations. We could have a very good ideological debate. However, I do not think it is time, but it is time to solve any problems which the inhabitants of Thessaloniki and the citizens of the whole country have. And because you said that you are not only getting the country out of the memorials, but you have signed the superstition for a century. Don't tell me that it's for ninety years, like Mr. Chakalotos, who corrected us and said that it's not for a century, it's for ninety years. To be precise, for a century we cannot manage public property without the signature of the lenders. And OSCE enters this process. And that is not a social-democratic policy, but it is a deeply conservative policy, which creates problems in our country. At the same time, by 2060 your Government signed primary surpluses for all five years, 3.5% of primary surpluses. And of course we have not come out of the crisis, we have not joined quantitative relaxation, we have not solved the question of public debt. You have also adopted unacceptable measures where, you, your Government, said it was unconstitutional and outside the Community acquis to prejudge them. Why do I report all this? Why did you, Minister, say that you had an objective of getting the country out of the memorials. You failed on this matter. It's getting deeper into the crisis for many years with what you're signing and undermining any possibility of getting out of the crisis. At the same time, Minister, you once again opposed opposition. I was expecting to hear about the bill to put the criticism on you. You only opposed the past. You have not really said anything about the present and the future. And in this way, the problems of the country cannot be solved. And, of course, the citizens of Thessaloniki continue to suffer, even today. Ladies and gentlemen, no one doubts the need for the restructuring of the urban transport of Thessaloniki, where the problems faced by OSH and which ultimately hamper the city's transport work and its upgrading make citizens considerably troubled. However, this restructuring should mean modern, safe, efficient and quality transport services. And, unfortunately, the bill that we are debating today does not seem to guarantee them. It is a bill, based on the intentions of the Minister concerned. And intent trial, we can't do it. All we can do is judge the legislation. Urban transport cannot withstand either state-owned or neoliberal models and above all cannot withstand any other populism. In this case, it is citizens who are unable to bear any more suffering, due to the lack of rational planning for a modern system of urban transport services, which will serve the public interest and not the interests of the few. Thessaloniki is a city with over a million citizens and has neither a metro nor a tram nor a maritime transport. They are faced with chronic pathogens and are often left without buses. And citizens are not happy with transportation and OSTH. This situation must be tackled today. You said at the meeting of the committee that the bill is a common bet with the society of Thessaloniki. To win, however, such a bet needs vision, design and action. You are not distinguished for any of these three elements in your government. What's your vision? What did we hear today? Did we hear anything about urban transport? No vision. While in many European countries urban transport is, indeed, public or municipal, the choices made by the Government for transport show that there is no vision. Another policy for Athens, another one for Thessaloniki, cannot find a specific framework in which we will legislate. Our position is stable and clear. The question is to preserve the nature of urban transport in favour of the public interest, to return to viability and to provide quality services to citizens on cheap tickets. We do not, therefore, adopt state-of-the-art and neoliberal or State-run models, because many times neoliberal models in our country are also state-owned. We seek modern, efficient, high-level urban services. That is why we are against both left populism and a so-called reformist populism, which has nothing to do with progressive reforms. One and the other are obstacles to the development of modern urban transport services. But, as you say, in an opaque state monopoly, what are you doing? On the substance, you are moving from the private monopoly of the OSH to the state-run. For its own, state-running, however, does not say anything or is the magic wand to remove the deadlocks in the transportation of Thessaloniki. Ladies and gentlemen, the private monopoly is falling apart, but the state-run company cannot in itself provide solutions. The solution lies in public transport, with a crucial role of local government and the city's institutions. The vision must therefore also be accompanied by a plan. Is there any long-term central planning for the country's urban transport? The two new public transport operators, which you are recommending today, will be able to function and after the end of 2019, do you have anything to answer that? - where, under the Rules of Procedure, an open European competition should be opened? Will the new body be able to participate in the procedure, or will these provisions finally become unequivocal? Or is what your Minister, Mr. Zouraris, said at some point, that after 2019, who lives who dies? I think that, when we look at other provisions, there is a chance that it will actually pass through all your philosophy and even tolls, which I will say something then, because it has been mentioned before the debate. Are your government's plans in general consistent with European legislation for OSTH? Extensive reference was made to Articles 22 and 23 to the termination of the Greek State's contract with OSTH and the acquisition of the organisation. You claim that under the 2007 European Regulation the validity of this contract is not tolerated. You are doing so for other reasons: to justify the unacceptable urgency procedure, which is due to what Mr Tsipras has promised the lenders and nothing else. Otherwise, we could talk about it a week more and more comfortably. On the other hand, there is also the opinion of the Legal Council of State, on the basis of which the conventions between a State and an OSH do not contravene the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and expire on 3 December 2019. How will you ensure respect, both in European legislation, from the previous and in Greek justices? Or when Greek justice comes and will you judge on the basis of the institutional, legal framework, that a provision of yours after 2019 is unconstitutional or anything else it deems, will you just blame justice, as you are doing lately, on all cases? I am not talking about the recent ones, but I am talking about the case of the CoR with the permits and many others, which you recently say in your government, against a rule of law. What the country needs today is, in any case, at least one necessary respect for the institutions, the independent authorities, to work to strengthen the independent authorities and not to further undermine and undermine them. As far as planning is concerned, let me make two points. The first concerns the quality of services. How do you ensure that quality urban transport is designed? We didn't hear anything. Are objectives, guidelines, priorities for the transport project? Nowhere. Or does this design testify to a thorough study and cost assessment? That's not it either. In the report of the General Accounting Office of the State, and while provision is made for expenditure on the share capital of the Transport Project Agency of Thessaloniki, for the payment of a price to the shareholders of OSH, the total cost does not arise. What's that? Will you give us an answer? How much will it cost the state mechanism and the Greek citizens? I am now going through the implementation of what you have planned. A chaotic landscape has been formed for the transition period. There will be co-existence of OSTH and PSYTH, and in this period there is a risk that this chaotic landscape will also be reflected in Thessaloniki's transport project. That is why special attention is needed. In order to safeguard the application of what is provided for in the bill, you also define very strict prison sentences, high financial penalties and deprivation of political rights to anyone who opposes, in any way, the content of the law. Because on your sidelines, to SYRIZA, I thought there were sensitive Members on these issues, such as civil rights, give some attention. You've reached the other end! What are you afraid of, Minister? You should at least say it to talk about it. From the "I don't apply the laws" and from the "I don't pay" movement you go to the other end, to severe penalties to anyone who doesn't apply your only law. Is that reasonable? Because I also talked about the "I'm not paying" movement and there was a discussion about tolls, I would like to say that you are not answering the questions, Minister, about the thirty-eight toll stations on the Egnatia Street. I have asked you a question in the previous period, to give immediate answers to the location of the new toll stations, which make the Ennaia Road forbidden and do not come to answer. We have learned that you have only informed a few SYRIZA Members that you have predicted the analogue tolls and until then, the law will not apply! Again, send for after 2019 the same problem. It does not make sense to legislate and it does not make sense not to answer the questions. Even today, let us say a word on this matter. Ladies and gentlemen, we must put an end to the decline which existed and exists in this particular issue with OSH. To adopt modern models which will serve the public interest, with the self-government and the Labour Center - we have asked you, too, to do so, as we have heard, and Members of the SYRIZA. Why not the Work Center at the Board of Directors of Thessaloniki? - with chambers and, ultimately, with society at the centre. Acting decentralisation, trusting self-government. Urban transport is a development tool, an important factor in the social and economic life of the place. Unfortunately, it will be lost, another opportunity for a modern institutional framework for urban transport, which will really serve the public interest. The obligation to adopt Union legislation by December 2019 should be a first-class opportunity for the development of outdated urban transport models in Athens and Thessaloniki, with a clear, strategic, long-term plan for the development of public, modern, high-level services and, in particular, for Thessaloniki, an integrated transport system based on more than one mode of transport and with enhanced the involvement of self-government. Only then would the transport future be prosperous. We disagree both with the current situation in OSH - and we have made it clear - and with the situation that you want to bring about. That is why we have cleared our attitude to how we see transport, namely public transport, but with self-government at the forefront, with the actors of the city in the forefront and with the keys to ensure that it does not happen again in the future and not with that logic, which will bring the same mistakes again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, Mr Athanasios Theocharopoulos. Now there is the floor for SYRIZA MEP Mr Ursouzidis for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u141	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am here today after an exhausting procedure, I would say, in the Committee on Production and Trade, where all interested parties or stakeholders have analysed the problem. The common place was that we have a bad situation in the transportation of Thessaloniki, a result of all the previous decades. One cannot say that it is because of this future, but the past is either extraordinary or recent. Those who ran are known, so I do not need to expand on this matter at all. The question of whether public transport, i.e. the movement of citizens, should be of a public nature, I am in favour of this view. It is not meant to be a man coming out of his home and not to be able to secure his transition, as at least the cities are structured, with the dimensions they have taken. I therefore believe that every reasonable citizen should agree. If they would prefer the private body to be involved in this process, obviously the combination of the two is - I think - the ideal, optimism, the best, in the sense that there will be distinct roles, where the state will supervise the process, design and implementation of the projects and private individuals will implement these guidelines in the sense that they can - and this is my belief - manage things much better in individual areas. The dimension, which has come from the Mayor of Sykes on this issue, whether we should be over party reasonable and see the thing in its real dimension, that is, how serious it is that we have healthy public transport, I am absolutely in agreement, I am just expanding it. This must in general be seen as a perception within this Chamber. To prove what I am claiming in terms of the need to have a reliable system, the most appropriate way to do this is by an example. Public transport serves citizens in their daily lives. A large volume of citizens is forced to move, as we have shaped - I repeat - our cities, consuming energy and money. The means of public transport is the most effective means of serving this need. Many European Union states are subsidising the movement of citizens at relatively high rates, up to 40%, perhaps more. Of course, I do not discuss what has happened in our homeland over the past few years. What I want to say is that it is about an energy, which has nothing to do with things that serve the economy. And I become specific with the example of Thessaloniki and the subway of Thessaloniki. The metro of Thessaloniki, as designed on its main route, i.e. from the Golden Gate, Bardaris to Kassandretic at the height of Sindrivanios, is 9.6 km with thirteen stops. The cost of this project, its budget is a billion, no matter where it will end up, because we have also received a very sick situation there. However, I will not go into that at all. I mean, it's planned to use it two hundred and fifty thousand of Thessaloniki's residents a day. In its full development, when the other pieces are added, it will be used by about six hundred thousand people a day. We can calculate how many cars remove the use of this medium from circulation. Assuming that every car uses three civilians, it is two thousand cars less in the city of Thessaloniki. And if we take only the metro size, i.e. about thirty kilometers, we have 6,000,000 kilometers less each day. This is reflected as a reality in the economy, the environment, the cost. With twenty minutes, counting the cost of moving a car, it's 1,800,000 euros every day, only for Thessaloniki. We deprive them of other sectors of the economy, which should have been attributed there to produce extra wealth, so that we can overcome the serious economic problems. The state seems to be ignoring all these issues. And if I come to the very great cost - with what our Committee on Road Safety has dealt with - for the last sixteen years, from 2000 to 2015, we have counted twenty-two hundred and fifty-seven dead, thirty-five thousand severely injured and disabled and two hundred seventy-seven thousand people, who were slightly injured. This is reflected in a cost of around EUR 81 billion, i.e. an annual average cost of EUR 5 million. This fact alone must concern people who are dealing with the issue of public transport, to become aware of these citizens. If it does not become aware of the citizens who will be invited to serve the two companies to be set up, there is no way that it will succeed. The citizen must be aware that this position by which they will be invited to serve the country is a very serious position and must be reflected in actions and actions, and that concerns you, Minister, that you have this responsibility. If we go to the practices of the previous ones, that is to say, all the hazelnuts around the ministerial thugs or people who have trade union actions, are chosen by these criteria, they will certainly fail. This is now, after all, reflected in the choice we made in the positions of health inspectors. Thank you very much for your tolerance. I hope that the issue of urban transport will have a good development.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, Mr Ursuzides, SYRIZA MP. The speaker of SYRIZA, Mr Mitafidis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u143	The parliamentary representative of the Democratic Integration, Mr Theocharopoulos, has asked us to put an end to the decline. But when we bring the House and legislate on the end of OSTH's death and open up a new page, in response to the long-standing vital demand of Thessaloniki and the wider region, at last this city will have a decent, reliable public transport, we start shooting, firing shadows, making projections in the future that it will fail. We must also give a line to the justice to which the sinful shareholders of the OSH will resort in order to halt this course. It is clear, therefore, that many who are involved - such as the nail with meat - with what the parliamentary representative of SYRIZA Mr Xydakis, called 'client parasiticism', do not want to say good-bye to this sinful past. I want to tell them it's against the common sense. They will not find a single citizen of Thessaloniki to convince him that the unscrupulous OSTH, who has been afflicting this city for decades, devouring public money, can suddenly change character if we introduce criteria, as they say, 'holl entrepreneurship', when they themselves have taken care of the OSH regime for selfish political reasons. So we're cutting the gordian bond. We have heard them say 'But why don't you go ahead with the municipalisation of transport'. Because it happened to be several years on the Thessaloniki Municipal Council, I remember that every time the resignation brought us the issue of municipalisation as a transitional regime, we only received our vote. For a quarter of a century, New Democracy had the Municipality of Thessaloniki and its chosen one, as you know, was convicted - together with the rest of his company - of a felony embezzling embezzlement in the Municipality of Thessaloniki. That was his big offer in this town. They did not, of course, deal with public transport. I want to tell you that this move of government has put things in a move in the city. I don't want to be excessive, but we already have the first reactions. Tomorrow we meet in Thessaloniki an initiative for public urban transport. It even ends up with a tripartite: access to transport and movement of all citizens, the free movement of the unemployed, an integrated urban transport system, which includes all means of fixed track, buses, maritime transport and bicycles. I would like to point out, with great regret, that at yesterday's hearing the Municipality of Thessaloniki was most interested - as it should be. I know, of course, the views of the mayor, but the question is why he was absent. And there was no time when neighbouring municipalities, despite their very good remarks, and their justified concern about the future of this development, were present. The CEDEFOP, on the other hand, supposedly represented them, has only come out to support this effort. I would like to raise an issue - with your tolerance, Mr President - on which we have referred before for fraud by decision of the Committee on Petitions of the European Parliament, in which I have had the honour of representing the primary educational organisations (ELME - I). I am referring, of course, to the scandal of transferring students. So listen, Minister, because yesterday we heard the representative of the region of Central Macedonia raise issues. So, at the moment, it has launched a tender for the transport of students, of EUR 44 million, while according to the national legislative framework, the majority of students should be transported by the buses of the OSH - this is urban transport - except where there is a real reason, with children having problems. It would also be an opportunity for those who are being cut off for the resolution of the OSH to undertake this transport project. This is how you call on the whole of Europe. Pupils in public schools are transported by public means of transport and not by rented buses. I want to hang up here. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for this transitional regime, which indeed has issues to be clarified, we will have a merciless war from the well-known interests that will try to sabotage the whole project. They've already shown their teeth. For its part, the government must not underestimate - in the good sense - technocratic management in order to keep up with the public interest in order to overcome this management over the state-owned 'treatys' of the Greek State, which hide behind the'since' unscrupulous memory of a two-party regime, which, as you know, reached the country with EUR 350 billion. And the private OSTH, of course, has its part in this 'part'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, Mr. Mitafidis, MP of SYRIZA. We are giving the Minister the floor, to refer to two amendments and to legislative improvements. We can hear you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr President. The first is legislative improvements. It is a classic level four: That is to say, a article, the 'W', paragraph 6 of Article 23, is deleted. The word'submit' shall be replaced by'submitted'. It also adds what our Member has asked for 'and based on the principles of sustainable mobility'. And after the word ‘tax’ in paragraph (a) of Article 26(3), the words ‘including income tax for any goodwill resulting from that transfer’ shall be added, so that there is no empty point. As for what Mr Lazaridis has asked for, he is right. But today we cannot accept his amendment. It is a commitment, however, that we will see exactly what has been agreed with the Thessaloniki CCEEs in order not to close the Thessaloniki CCEEs, but to address the issue holisticly, in relation to what they had taken from the people, in relation to the lines and what they had to pay. The two amendments concern OSCE and OSCE. We have a firm orientation. For OSCE, the online ticket has come out, which has started and is moving. It must therefore be possible to make a discount policy through electronic cards to the new Comistros Auto Collection System. We're giving the OSCE board the authority to do this, because otherwise, we won't be able to have any more cards than they were with the electronic system. The second amendment, concerning the OSH, concerns the traffic charges and the insurance of vehicles of the OSH, which have remained immobilised in the train for a long time. This was another trick, from what we found: buses, which are immobilized or are for maintenance for too many months, to pay from the money of the Greek people and the premiums, as well as the traffic charges. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Minister. Please share the legislative improvements. Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Ioannis Delis has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not the first time we have seen, on the occasion of a bill like today, a fight is being set up and attempted by both SYRIZA and New Democracy, as well as the other urban parties, to put differential lines where there are no one. After all, the dividing line is only one and it is the one between capital and work. Why are you doing this? But, in order to trap and trap all of you people in your politics, stop him in every way, when with the capitalist one-way and when with the horror, not to see the real philosophical way that the JRC proposes. Here, why do you need to hide like - like your slander on the same street, the capitalist, indifferent to which side of this road you are walking on. Here, why you need to hide in the curtain of your badly-famous quarrels your concentration in the same strategy, that is, in the Uya's "net profits for capital". European Union and dry bread.' And if there's no more crumbs, you throw it to the most impoverished! Here, why you need to appear as others from what you are really, urban parties in the service of the Greek bourgeoisie, the big business groups and their own development. The more you reveal to the people as what you really are, the more you fight, the more you become involved, no substance to the people. "You are inmates" blames SYRIZA for New Democracy. "You are neoliberal" says SYRIZA in New Democracy and others. Member States and neoliberals, however, when you are about to vote together on the memoranda and the prerequisites of the evaluations, which break popular rights, your moth changes it. Then, you see, you're giving the chapter tests and you're struggling for his favor. And then give him the charges of incompetence, of sluggishness, of delays, for SYRIZA to answer that he is doing what he has not done or dared to do before forty years. Meanwhile, the people bleed, train him in poverty and misery, and the capital rub his hands, with his work always done, when with one another and when with the other. The very same things are happening here today, with the bill on the Urban Transport of Thessaloniki. On the one hand, the government celebrates because it puts them under public control, on the other hand, we have grief, embarrassment and accusations about the detention of SYRIZA, from New Democracy, mainly, but also from other urban parties. At the same time, at the same time, the people of Thessaloniki have been living in an incredible suffering, sifting out at the stops of urban bus transport for buses that are getting more and more rare, since their routes have diluted, for routes such as '21' that want an hour to come down from Euosmos in the center, stacked in sarcastic buses, expensive tickets and fines to rain for the unemployed and poor passengers and all these phenomena to intensify and multiply with the capitalist crisis, since all governments - and today, of course, the current government - have, together with the European Union, taken care of the burdens of this crisis to charge them to the people. Let's not hide, the operation of the state-owned private OSTH all these sixty years is the mirror of your system, the capitalist, with all its rot. And from rot, OSH, nothing more! After all, the rot is also the natural environment of any major capitalist business like OSH, along with its complete failure to meet the people's transport needs. And now SYRIZA comes against this bankrupt model of state-owned, privately owned by OSTH and presents his own business model, the "public" as he says and triumphantly triumphs, seeking to create illusory expectations for the people of Thessaloniki, "solding algae, for silk ribbons". "Multiple" - supports SYRIZA's Minister and MPs - "a consistent demand from the city's people and state its urban transport". Although the people's demand was and remains the cheap, safe and comfortable movement into their town for their work and entertainment, the Minister, this request distorts it, twists it and restricts it to state control. But let's see what this state will take over the transportation of Thessaloniki and how that state treats the people. Isn't that the state that, for years now, is levelling labour and people's rights, having as its driver all its governments? Isn't this a state that cuts off pensions and wages, which unrelentingly decorates the popular layers of the city and village, which even taxs the unemployed or those who take even 400 euros a month? Isn't that the state that's getting bitten more and more to give money for people's health and education, turning them into expensive goods? Isn't that the state which, at the same time, is "sharing" the capital with subsidies - incentives, tax exemptions of billions, which prohibits strikes, which facilitates redundancies and tolerates redundancies, often with very tragic consequences, as has been shown by the victim's suicide in Karupidis? And this state, the classic as its medal, you want us and the workers to believe that they will guarantee the philosophical transportation in Thessaloniki and elsewhere. Do you want us to believe that it will deny its class nature and the instrument of capital, as well as support for the people? When did this happen? The state of an owner recognises: or the capital or the people. Both of them together, we can't. And only the example of state PPC, which flicks the world, would be enough. Not to mention the OSCE of Athens, who uploaded the ticket to 1,40 euros and all going up. But it is worth seeing from a little closer and closer to the experience of Athens, through its public urban transport. Was it not the public body of Athens that reduced the wages of employees by 40%? The public OSCE workers didn't see the working conditions getting worse and the intensification of their work hitting red? Is it not a public body, which has not hired drivers - craftsmen, which has dismantled Athens' urban transport, so that there is less than half of the vehicles coming out in Athens because of damages, which are not repaired, since there is a shortage of staff and spare parts? Has the staff not been dangerously reduced throughout the Athens urban transport system? The same will happen with the public transport services of Thessaloniki because, as you know very well, in a capitalist society, there is no business, whether private or social - the last "fruit" that you are plagiarizing, the COMES - which refuses or indifferent to its oxygen, i.e. capitalist profit. Of course, the European Union is also very well aware of this, which is why it does not care whether or not an undertaking, and in this case a transport undertaking, will have a private or public nature. Capitalist character genuinely has, in the logic of cost and benefits to work and the rest are details! If this is all about a public company, as you are now doing with Thessaloniki's Urban Transport, the better for the state budget, which will save more money, to give it a thousand ways to the large business groups to develop their profits. So let the government not celebrate in our country because it first implements the relevant Regulation of the European Union and legislates OSE and PHYTH, that is, the two anonymous companies for the transport of Thessaloniki. Unless the European Union changed its character and became a polemic. As far as we know, however, either neoliberal, as you say, or social-democratic, her song does not change. It's the song of the chapter siren. The explanatory statement makes it clear. Clearly and unequivocally, it is stated that the new regulatory body of Public Transport of Thessaloniki operates in OSCE standards, which has long been governed by the provisions of the TEC, which have been operating exclusively on private economic criteria, as well as by the provisions of Law 2190 from the far 1920 "around anonymous corporations", so that there is no doubt as to where you are going with it. So let the krone on public and social benefits, as it is certain that with the new public transport model in Thessaloniki and the tickets will be increased and the workers will be exploited even more, since an anonymous company, such as PSYTH, will seek as an anonymous company that respects itself the profits and they will come directly out of popular pockets, because urban transport is the most popular means of transport. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like a slight tolerance, Mr President. Thank you. But there is also one side in the bill, as we have said in the committee, which must not be underestimated and which must be approached by the people of the city because it hides a number of risks to its interests. Several mayors in Thessaloniki and the District Governor himself constantly declare in favour of the involvement of the municipalities in the urban transport project, invoking the relevant provisions of the “KALIKARAT”. So the government, and under Article 18 of the bill, legislates the possibility of participation of the municipalities in the share capital of the public limited company up to 49% of all its shares. What is the government doing? It opens the way for municipalities to extend their business operation and transport. Who? Municipalities, the local state, which are suffocating from state sub-financing, which are bound up with anti-popular fiscal policy, which leads to lending, of course, with the account going to the public, and which have the gospel of municipal taxation, recompense, and increasingly bleeding popular families. There's a pit in there! It seems that the privatisation of urban transport, that is, its tradition - and indeed its most profitable parts - is intended to be done through the municipalities. They also have the relevant experience, of course, apart from the will. This was unequivocally stated by several mayors in the area of Thessaloniki yesterday in the committee of the Parliament. And in view of their poor economic situation, and in expressing their desire for the infamous municipalisation of urban transport, it is certain that they will be the intermediate station to gradually assign them to the hands of private contractors, who are preparing for new big profits. We are, of course, talking about profitable lines, because others who do not have a great deal of transport or who are far away will be left in the public interest to operate them like this. In order to lure the prospective private investors, Article 3 provides that for the installation of stops, hangers, offices, publishers and other associated facilities no authorisation or authorisation is required from the region, municipalities or other public authority, i.e. private individuals will set up the positions where they are suited. In short, they will set up what they want, where they want and without asking anyone. To sum up, we say that nothing good has to expect the people of Thessaloniki and the transport workers from today's bill. His right to modern urban transport will constantly be paid by the people, whether in the public limited company or in the private sector. If, apart from modern times, the people want to have cheap and free urban transport in Thessaloniki and elsewhere, of course, if they want to be free for the hours they need for their work, then the only proposal they need to touch and for which they must fight is the proposal of the JRC that has a comprehensive plan for the overall organisation of society and of course also for the popular transport needs, far away, however, from any capitalist logic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u148	Thank you Mr. Ioannis Delis, Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece. We shall now proceed to the speakers. Ms. Harula Kafantaris, Member of SYRIZA, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating a bill today - I would say, a bill on the social right to move the citizens of Thessaloniki and their access to public-friendly transport and of course to the environment. There is an end to a special monopoly, the monopoly of the OSH, with, of course, harmonisation with Union law, Regulation 1370/2007. Ladies and gentlemen, the old ends in the transportation in Thessaloniki. OSTH is a typical example of a state-owned private sector with a history of sixty years in the city of Thessaloniki. Some people in here may think that this model of the private sector of the economy is sound. Is a private sector that operates with EUR 110 million in debt, with EUR 41 million in insurance funds, unpaid workers, fines for the unemployed and fines for the state to pay them, and of course with an ageing and polluting fleet of cars? What we did not hear in this Chamber and today, but in particular in the committees in the last two days! We heard, depending on each other's political point of view, that OSTH is stacking and becoming the bad state, that he becomes state-owned, that we can then privatize him, put him in the Property Certification Fund and sell him, etc. I will repeat something that both the Minister and the SYRIZA Members have mentioned and it is the reality that the Property Certification Fund is about making real use of the property of the public. You who make this criticism, remember some years ago the well-known TIADED, the sellout fund of public property. There is a big, substantial difference in these two. I would say, in fact, that the consultation that took place yesterday and the day before in Parliament with representatives of the city, the local government, etc. was very interesting and a conclusion is coming to light, that everyone - not to say most - condemned this OSTH model, which has been working for so many decades in Thessaloniki and talked about change, sustainable transport that will really serve citizens. One mayor called OSTH and the transportation of Thessaloniki disgustingly. It is not possible, ladies and gentlemen, for Thessaloniki's transport, with about one million inhabitants, to be subsidized much more than Athens' five million. So we need another transport model. Modern transport with a social person, aiming for Thessaloniki to become a friendly city with a reliable transport system that will help the development, tourism, ensure the dignity of the citizen, have workers with stable working relations and collective labour contracts and, of course, without environmentally burdening its metropolitan complex. It is a political choice for the large metropolitan complexes and Athens and Thessaloniki to be public, with social control, design, with transparent functions, with tenders that will be carried out in accordance with the Public Procurement Act. A new legal framework for transport is therefore in place. The OSH is being wound up, two new bodies are being set up, one regulatory body, the OSH S.A. and an executive, P.S.S.S.C.E. But what do we mean, when we say friendly environmental transport? That is why I would like to say a few things. What is the contribution of transport to the pollution of big cities? Important both in Athens and Thessaloniki, based on an energy balance 2014 in transport, is consumed around 40% of the energy of final consumption, while transport is a source of emissions of polluting gases. So we need to improve the energy mix in transport using alternative fuels, and in this Chamber we voted for Law 4439/2016 - the same Ministry of Law - for alternative fuel supply infrastructure. A national strategy, therefore, is needed, an energy policy plan in the field of transport based on national and Union policies to tackle climate change. The European Union proposes digital technologies in transport, smart invoicing, public transport with low emissions. So let it be, Minister, the new body for changing this model. Environmentally friendly transport, why? Because Thessaloniki deserves transport that is friendly to its citizens first and foremost to the environment. Transport with positive social status. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u150	Thank you to the MP of SYRIZA, Mr. Hara Kafantaris. The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Constantine Güulekas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would only speak of the bill, but I have previously heard the Minister, when he has spoken, to follow another tactic, not to talk about the bill, but to talk about all the rest. Yes, Minister, I am sorry, because in a ironic style you have addressed the whole opposition, which dared to criticise your grand design for the urban transport of Thessaloniki. So what didn't you tell us? I would just like to stand on two or three points. You told us 'do not blame our past'. Let's not mess with each other's past. Things have been heard here, and I think we are going to put down the debate. As for Mrs.Mitsotakis and Mr.Suble, you said, Mr.Mitsotakis explained very clearly, and from this step, what exactly did he say to Mrs.Merkel and Mr.Soible, but also what he always says to all foreign officials with whom he comes in contact, defending the national interest. What I do not understand is that you say that you are the representative of a government, which your own Prime Minister said "Go home, Mrs Merkel" or that the troika is leaving and will not step on her feet here again. Today you all go and meet her at Hilton and Mr. Tsipras has become Mrs. Merkel's most persuasive friend, partner and partner. So, please, let us not enter such a debate. You said a lot about Thessaloniki. You said: "Let those who once ripped the tram lines down", meaning Constantine Karamanlis or "the ones who founded OSH". First of all, I would like to tell you that Constantine Karamanlis, in addition to all that you can count on him, is the man who unreservedly led us from the dictatorship in democracy, sent out a war with Turkey, put the country into the European Union, recognised - and he did very well - the Communist Party of Greece at that time when the Migration took place. In addition, I should like to say to you, because it has been heard "what is the offer of your prolongation to Thessaloniki", that it is the man in which Thessaloniki owes too many infrastructures and structures that it so far uses, such as the railway station, the "Palais des Sports", the State Theatre of Northern Greece, the port, the university city and many other modern works of that time which, unfortunately, have not been overcome so far because they have not been replaced by something younger and better. Minister, does the area of public transport in Thessaloniki need to be upgraded? I need to. Just the fact that you're closing down OSTH, does that mean you're making something better? Why? You describe it anywhere in your bill? What does your bill include? You're setting up another public service. Well, well? Is that a guarantee? Is it essential, because you say so, that the urban transport of Thessaloniki will be upgraded and more qualitative? Coming from Thessaloniki, MP of this city, I tell you that Thessaloniki needs upgraded urban transport. It also needs trams and maritime transport and subway, because it has remained far behind. Of course she needs them. But, because he needs it, do you come and say, 'After closing OSTH, will Thessaloniki, by magic, acquire upgraded public transport'? How do you draw that conclusion? Let me refer to the bill. First of all, Thessaloniki owes you an answer, Minister. Your conviction not to meet with the administration of OSTH for two and a half years that your government has been running this place has led to the unbelievable suffering of the Thessalonians, who have seen many times, unfortunately, that the city will stay the whole week without urban transport, because Mr Spirtz, ladies and gentlemen, did not want to meet with the administration of OSH. These persuasions of the government were paid by Thessaloniki and the Thessalonians. I would also like to ask you a question. What you are doing today will lead to a better fate for the Thessalonians? Tell us how you prove it? Let's move on. You set up a public service. You are the same man who proceeded to the privatization of fourteen regional airports. Pick what you're doing. What are you going to do, privatizations or statism? Why here statement, so public service, will surely lead to the service of the public interest, and in other cases not, as in ports, if you will, with the signature of 'COSCO', where we had the concession of the freight station at the port of Piraeus? You sold him out. You once shouted that our government would sell him out with EUR 230-250 million and sold him with EUR 30-40 million. Suddenly you come here today and go out and say, "You know, doing a public service, thus stacking the urban transport, this will work as a steadfast and will immediately bring upgrades to public transport in Thessaloniki." In fact, you do so in another way, instead of talking in your bill about how public transport will operate. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, what authoritarian issues involves the bill: Members of the board of directors will have original immunity. I read in Article 29 that the members of the Management Board, the President, the Chief Executive Officer, shall not be prosecuted and shall not be heard of acts and decisions which comply with this Law. So, listen. As long as one claims that "I do what I do, I do it in accordance with this law" and that is why he will be relieved of responsibility. Also, listen to the other one. Will it be possible for the OSH board, one of the two public services, to function in a quorum - do you know with how many people, ladies and gentlemen? - with three people. Global originality. These are the arrangements that will lead to the upgrading of urban transport! I'm going further. Ladies and gentlemen, you know that this legal person has been set up for ninety years. The only difference is that today we have 2017. And as our rapporteur, Mr Karamanlis, as well as our parliamentary representative, Mr Dendias, observed in 2019, in accordance with Regulation 1370/2007, we have to proceed with open competitive procedures. Mr Spirtzi, I ask you: have you ensured the exception of this new body? Have you spoken to the partners and have they assured you that it is excluded? If it is, tell the National Representation. You say: 'Yes, we are stagnating urban transport and we are moving on to this model because we are sure that we will exclude Thessaloniki Urban Transport from what the Community regulation demands'. Or what do we do now? Do we make two new legal persons in mid-2017 which, in two years' time, will need to dismantle if we go into open competitive procedures? Unless you have secured the exception, you want to make the urban transport and do the colpo grosso, as you did with the OSCE, with Athens' Urban Transport, put this in the superstate, where you put all the "silvers of the country" for ninety years.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u152	Complete your place, please. We've gone far enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u153	I shall conclude, Mr President. What I want to say is, of course, that there must also be care for the workers in OSH. No one's ever talked about it. They work there 2,300 people. What's going on? These people are automatically transferred to the public. But where? The single payroll. So, have you been out publicly to tell the world that you guys working in OSH, the two and a half thousand families of Thessaloniki, will you suddenly see your wage cut? You have to explain these to the world, because this is where everyone comes out - I mean your partners in the government coalition - and they say that you know, in this way, confident, everything will work perfectly, perfectly, secure all the workers, no one will complain, everything has been solved. Good! With you, we'll make something better. But that cannot be done, Minister, in this way. This is what is being done by proclaiming a public dialogue with all the players in Thessaloniki, who should be involved in the dialogue, telling you proposals - they have proposals - and then indeed we should end up somewhere. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I think this bill, which you are bringing, Mr Spirtzi, is the ideals of your government. And I think, unfortunately, he can't take us forward, he'll take us back. You've been turning us back many decades with this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u154	Thank you. The parliamentary representative from Potami, George Mavrotas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, Mr President. When I heard the OSTH bill was coming, my first question was why would it come in the emergency procedure? Although we don't fall off the clouds. The exception would be to come under normal procedures. So by means of the urgency procedure, to be voted on so that it can start immediately afterwards, as the Minister said, its planning and implementation, that is August, which public services are well known to be inhabited. Let's go to that particular matter. I'm not going to have a detailed conversation. Mr Amyras said so. The regime with OSTH was already problematic: State-owned capitalism, which ensured stable profits for shareholders and, of course, the ability of local political actors to appoint by ensuring votes. A classic example of a client state where some made their voting policy with the public's backs. Thessaloniki, the second large city of Greece, had no other public means of transport than the buses of OSTH. As has been said many times, an developed place is not where the poor move by cars, but where even the rich use public transport. Unfortunately, the concept here dominates is that public urban transport mainly relates to low incomes and constitutes expenditure. That perception is obsolete. When GOOGLE decided to set up its headquarters in Dublin in Iceland, it made the staff, either by public transport or by bicycle, conditional on access. For Dublin, therefore, urban transport has proved to be a strategic ally to attract investment. Today it needs to be understood that public transport is for everyone and is a tool for economic development. Good urban transport is a factor in attracting foreign direct investment and also affects the quality of life index in each city. So the solution that the government gives is, in our opinion, in the wrong direction. It may be attractive for the two and a half thousand workers, who will turn them into civil servants, but sooner or later it is that the two new state bodies, OSH and PHYTH - true that you have found these names, OSH and PHSH, are like a couple who leaps off from the pages of the Old Testament - end up at the supranational, so, such as OSH or TEAD, which will undertake their privatisation, going to 2019, which should be released. And then, Minister, since you like the word 'deprivation' - it fills your mouth when you say it - we will have a deprivation. Meanwhile, the traffic in the city will have become a mess, because unlike Athens there are no means of fixed track, tram and metro in Thessaloniki. And I'm surprised that no one in Thessaloniki is worried about it. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] I even heard you in committee yesterday say about the New Democracy and PASOK party that was held in OSH. You're right, absolutely right. But where were you then? The president of the TEI could not say a word about it or, because you were in another camp, 'green', did you not have any comments on the bad texts or did they not in your eyes then have bad texts? Let's come to today. The country has an obligation to submit a strategic plan to liberate traffic from 2019 onwards for Athens and Thessaloniki. Under normal circumstances, this would be a first-class opportunity for the government to develop obsolete OSH and OSCE models. The state must plan, check and subsidise targeted tickets and employees' wages, but not the dividend of OSH shares. What's missing? Our rapporteur said it: The strategic planning of the state, in cooperation with Local Government, the establishment of a regulatory authority responsible for meeting quality standards, the conducting of an international tender for the concession of urban transport on the basis of public interest and financial control and accountability for the management of state money by OSH. Instead, the government over others is curbing. It presents the state OSCE as a model state transporter and OSTH as a private body - one. In our opinion, the privatization or deprivation of the OSH is a poorly studied solution chosen, not because it is the best solution, but because it suits the ideological costume of SYRIZA, a lost opportunity, which we hope will not ultimately pay in compensation or suffering. Let me now turn to some other issues of topicality. And what should one choose first? The Prime Minister who considers the decisions of justice to be institutional obstacles, and that is why he appropriately administers his legal office with the retired President of the Ice Bay? Does the Minister of National Defence call secrets to an isovitic drug prisoner, as if we were watching an episode from the well-known House of Cards? The revelations from the older protagonists - the once-out "assets", which you said, the government - about a parallel currency and exit from the Eurozone into cafeteria-level designs, as if they were preparing for five days? The Ballakidon attacks in the center of Athens, but also at a university, as was the case yesterday in Volos? I shall only refer to the first of these. We have recently witnessed a confrontation between government and justice. In every decision, which the government does not like, ministers are commenting on, either by mandarins or by posting on social networks or by exhortations to its work. No, justice is not above criticism, nor is it infallible, but do you believe that its ongoing question by government ministers - not some commentators and journalists - is constructive? I am not entering into the substance of the decisions. I'm entering into the essence of the reactions. A war by the government that saws a basic institution of democracy. Reactions to justice decisions have been dented lately, and I do not know whether this is about the specific retirements in the field of justice - because before we did not have them - the retire ments which are not exactly retire ments, but are more used as reserves by the government. So, having the executive power, the government is trying to dominate all the others, starting with the well-known efforts it has made to the fourth power in the press, and going on undermining the legislative power with all these urgent parliamentary procedures that continue even after the closure of the second assessment which would possibly justify urgent procedures. I would remind you that even the previous copyright bill went through urgent procedures. Now, following the closure of the second assessment, how does this downgrade of Parliament justify? I hear that another three - four bills by the end of the House are still coming in two weeks, so because the dates are not coming, we will probably have urgent and urgent procedures over there. Now, the next power that the government is coming to hurt is the court. She comes to criticise her decisions, considering the institutional obstacle. Institutional obstacle to whom and why? This interventionist practice against other powers creates triumphs and damages the stability of the system and an unstable system easily loses balance. All this is about communication to close the eye of SYRIZA at specific audiences, trying to convince them that he has not lost his soul. That is why tolerance to extreme behaviours that in their world have an ideological alibi is brutally affecting the image of the country. Tourist was beaten down in the center of Athens for shopping on Sunday. The day before, Ermos became a battlefield, with dozens of shops damaged. We thought the valve of the anti-government anger was Exarchia and polytechnic. Now we see this evacuation valve being transferred to the center of Athens to care for the government's ears of certain groups. But the country must change its page, the economy must finally enter a first shot in front of communication. Jobs must be created in the country and this must be our number one priority. But you cannot do this by making all the unemployed either poster or hire them to the public. Business will come from the private sector and jobs want investment. Investments, however, want climate, not crying every time a privatization takes place. So SYRIZA's DNA has to undergo a gene mutation. As a party, he has learned to react and not to act, to protest and not to create. Because the party has invaded the state, it has inactivated it. Changes, reforms are passed, but they are not implemented and without an effective state, the private initiative will collapse, because there will be no institutions and rules. The law of the jungle will prevail and the jungle, you know, is not renowned for its democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Dimitris Dimitriadis from SYRIZA has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this bill comes to regulate something that everyone has agreed in the past days and the previous period, that is, the situation in OSH was no longer going any further. Great public service problems, unpaid workers, opacity, squandering of public money. The reason why we may have delayed our intervention in this very situation is that we are hardly offended by anyone in this Chamber, but only by local society and we are addressing it. There was no suggestion that we should intervene on how and when. The regime which has raised this phenomenon for sixty years and which is responsible for today's explosive deadlock simply admits that there is a problem. Its solution is for after 2019 and ultimately agrees with the OSH positions that offend any concept of protection of public money and of healthy entrepreneurship rules. They are themselves responsible for the fact that the priests of entrepreneurship and the free market are otherwise. But what free market and what entrepreneurship, when we have a company that has guaranteed public funding, a closed contract first by 1981, then by 2001, then by 2021, and perhaps whenever their reputation was needed? It has full funding for the renewal of its fleet, but with state money and no possibility of depreciation in the end as it has been shown. In fact, what is the commitment of the previous ministers and government officials to this very fact, that the planned depreciation of this market, that is, our money that we need to get back, was simply not respected? It's someone's fault, someone's got to apologize. This is therefore the example of the former regime, how they perceive entrepreneurship, the free market, competition, the rules of law. The financial results we had after sixty years of this process are as follows. First of all, it is important to say that only over the last eight years have state funding of some 1 billion in OSH. This body, while taking this money, owes - today we are talking - at IKA 41 million, has a debt of 120 million to third parties, does not, as it should, have at least 38 million reserves. Where is it, really, these? Because the depreciations of the Greek State on this matter must be in favour of the Greek State, which paid for the renewal of the fleet of this company. She's not in our favor right now. We have a widening of deficits, we have a bad supply of services and we have unpaid staff. In short, we have a tragic situation, a violation of every concept of public interest and public wealth, and it obliges us to intervene. We therefore intervene with this legislative initiative with a proposal aimed at recovering the public wealth, restoring the quality of the services provided to the citizens of Thessaloniki and protecting the rights of workers working there. Our proposal is simple and concrete. Two public corporations, one OSH and one OSH. I very much liked the intervention of the fellow Member who made a comparison of how these expressions sound, biblical. Indeed, it's humorous, and I'm glad to hear it. The PHYTH includes all the means of transport of the urban urban urban urban city fabric of Thessaloniki. Also, the liquidation of the OSTH, with the aim of creating a new landscape, is to ensure, even today, the public interest and the rights of citizens to transfer to the urban complex of Thessaloniki. I repeat that I have not heard you propose anything different, either in relation to our project or something quite different from other political bodies. And if for the neoliberal bloc this was expected, it was not expected, in my own approach, from the JRC, which in this privatization of the OSH and its recovery from the public is not directly placed. Are local society's struggles for public transport ultimately justified or not? Are we finally close to this desire, to this claim or to that? I didn't hear anything specific.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u158	Now the fight's right!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u159	But I didn't hear anything specific. The JRC's new approach that the state has a class status is indeed useful. Well done, the children who realised that they have a class formation and that statehood is not neutral, but this is another conversation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will end in a minute, Mr President. While it is considered that it has an integrated proposal for public transport, it does not support our specific plan, but it does not even enrich it or add anything to it. It therefore loses the opportunity to contribute to the resolution of public space and public wealth on issues that the city's movements have been making for years and I think we are unifying them. I have not in the end heard a single and partial proposal to reverse this particular proposal that we are tabling. I have to say here that I have heard that at the end of the day, Mr. Spirtzis, Mr. Spirtzis, has been rather responsible for the problems encountered in the transport of Thessaloniki. We therefore have not only an example of the waste and the fragmentation of public money, but also of their direct transfer to groups of interrelated individuals with the state. What together with the rest of the historical example of state money, state-owned businessmen and willing political staff, with us getting an end in this case, too. It will always take an end to this emblematic and incredible model of interlocutory that is responsible for the confiscation of the property of the Greek people. It is not a promise, it is our act and you will often meet it from now on. It is our example, because the path of changing the development and productive model is open and it is ahead. The economy of needs is a challenge for us who are prepared to respond in the interests of the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The State Secretary, Mr. Mavraganis, wants to make an intervention. How long have you been asking, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u161	That is three to four minutes, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u162	Good. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u163	Ladies and gentlemen, I will focus only on the following: it is known that, in the light of the facts and liabilities, despite the payments made to OSH over all years, but also the lack of benefit for which he was founded since 1957, by the similar, continuous and interdependent extensions of contracts between 1957, that is, for sixty years, from the fact that even the reserves of the OSH of 38 million are currently being searched for, from the fact that it was not allowed by OSH to SAS, which was the supervisory body, to cross-check with the electronic model provided for in the 2001 Convention, so that we can see whether or not there is a divergence from the vehicle - km that was supposed to be the basic provision to the consumer, that is a profoundly man-center. The public service of a public transport service is such a service that, even from the directive of 123/2006 and from 1370/2007, is provided for as a special service from the scope of these directives, which provide for freedom of services and establishment. Therefore, Community law itself provides for an area which is, above all, of a public nature. Now, there is the accusation that this intervention is not legally allowed to be made and that it is, in many cases, outside its scope by itself of the Constitution and, in any case, the fundamental rules of Greek and Union law. I would like to point out here: Firstly, the 1975 Constitution, which I imagine no political wing can blame it for a statisticist, provides in Article 146 that the private economic initiative cannot be developed against freedom, freedom of movement for which some MPs have spoken, the freedom of movement of citizens, which is a deep individual right. Nor can it be developed at the expense of the national economy and public services. In these cases, therefore, the Constitution provides for a specific intervention, which it analyses in Article 106(3), which says that such an undertaking can be redeemed and that this acquisition can be made by the State or by a public body or by participation in other similar sectors such as municipalities. Of course, we have also been accused of this, while the municipalities, the opportunity given to them by Article 18, if I am not mistaken, to be able to take over shares in the IAS, are those who have first knowledge and picture of everyday reality. What else is predicted, though? Has the Constitution been implemented? Sure, yeah. In Legislation 1386/1983 giving the right to the administration, the Agency for the Reconstruction of Enterprises, the OAU, to do this on its own initiative, by means of an administrative act, therefore, the acquisition of businesses, without justice interfering at that time. Then N.1892/90, Mitsotakis government, does that remind anyone of that? Article 46a, what did he predict? The possibility of the administration, but also with the culmination of the decision of the head office of the company when those who had the greatest demands, namely, the public and the ECA, on the other hand, 120,000, 000 and 41 000, to take over the company, especially when it was a critical and vital sector for the social and national economy, as it is in this case. So, gentlemen, these application of the rules of law under Article 106 of the Constitution is something new? Is that something that was never predicted? Is it something about which the Greek courts have ruled that it is unconstitutional? Obviously not. Indeed, many times it has been implemented by an act of administration, not by the Greek Parliament by law. I would like, therefore, to conclude by saying that in addition to this legislation imposed, it is deeply anthropocentric, perfect constitutional, and if we did not carry out this piece of legislation, we would be accountable to the Greek society. So accounting officers are the ones who react today and do not propose anything, but simply abdicate them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u164	Thank you, Minister. Mr Saridis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Thessaloniki is here. He's here, he sees and listens. Today is her day, but every day she's here. We can't hide anything from the Thessalonians anymore. They know well what has happened to OSH, better than those who did what they did. They don't know, of course, the official composition of the OSTH blog, but it's probably all right. This is where the Minister doesn't even know about it. And the president of the OSTH board who asked him repeatedly about it smiled at us and told us that he had handed it over to the Ministry for three years. Where is he? To which Minister has the blog handed it over? Who's got it today? Who is to some extent responsible for the suffering of the citizens of Thessaloniki? Mr. Spirjis said - and I believe him, I have no reason to believe him - that he didn't find anything like that when he received the Ministry. Some hope that we will have enough information that the president of OSH has given us that the three Chohatzopoulos brothers possessed the rightful shares of OSH. But does not any other stateman, former stateman of Thessaloniki have shares of the OSTH? Anyone? Neither did he, nor members of his family? Just Chohatzopoulos? All Chohatzopoulos? Only Chohatzopoulos exists in this country, is there anyone else? He burned his name on his own, which is why we all found out. The others? Will the Thessalonians teach them? Minister, you have to take all the necessary steps to officially inform the Thessalonians that their money has gone for so many years and how much money we're talking about. There are, of course, committees of inquiry. Here we are now used to doing committees of inquiry for various things. We could also do a committee of inquiry for OSH. How much money was damaged by Greek citizens or will we not know that? Aren't we going to find out who ate them or how they were eaten? Once again what we know without doubt is the one from whom they were eaten. They've been eaten by the Greek taxpayer, who's been deprived of his anticancer drugs these days that they're spending to save. We're cutting days off cancer patients to save a few thousand euros. And here that millions have been eaten, no no no no no-one has sweated. Ladies and gentlemen, history will write that OSTH has opened up, worked for decades and more, but without ever having to know and officially learn his blog, how many and who have put people in work, on buses, on party raptors, who were so greedy, who, while they were OSH shareholders, built companies - ghosts, Minister, to rent and sell to OSH with the undeclared, what it is for sale and what it is for sale. Unfortunately, today we're not going to know anything officially. Today we are going through this, today we are putting it under the rug, if any. The misery of OSTH has caused so much indignation and frustration to the Thessalonians and for so many years that their priorities have, you know, changed. Today’s first time they do not want to know how much they were eaten or to know who ate them. The protracted indifference of civilian personnel and the stench of party trade there led to this result. Today what is of interest to Thessaloniki, ladies and gentlemen, is whether the city will have buses tomorrow, people going to their jobs, students at their universities, students in their schools. Today, what concerns Thessaloniki is whether what we are voting on in this Chamber will blow their labor once again. Just as the party domination forced an entire city to tolerate OSH for decades, so I too am forced, in turn, to overlook past crimes and to see what the future will be. Because we all here today decide with our vote on the future of Thessaloniki. Today, then, I do not demand any explanation why the only ticket publishers on the planet that do not give change are in Thessaloniki. Today I am just asking how much the ticket will cost the Greek taxpayer tomorrow to get down to the center of his city, how much, Minister, the new plan will cost the Greek taxpayer what is going on with the gray that is in the transitional period. I recognise, Minister, that it may not be time for us to deal with complaints that there were fines for students and the unemployed, who were extinguished after having been collected from the Greek State's compensatory participation. Now is the time to get a clear assurance that the city will have buses every September from now on, when the schools will be opened, when the Thessaloniki International Exhibition takes place. And we ask for assurances, Minister, and not promises. In the city of Thessaloniki the value of political promises is zero. We're talking about the city where the metro word has become the shortest joke. How much is the ticket going to cost? Will they have credibility on the routes? Will buses, evaporations of older buses stop polluting the air? Will HERE finally gain access to the buses of Thessaloniki? That's what concerns us today in the city. That is what the citizens are demanding, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I now come to the presentation of the mind of the Centro Association. As I said before about the complaints about what has happened in the past, we will consider whether it is worth proposing even a committee of inquiry. For the future, however, we have more to say. First of all, the Centro Association believes in privatization. And he believes there because he thinks that the famous public interest is better and more effective. We sincerely believe that when there is a stable framework of clear rules that protects both business and the citizen as a consumer, when there is political stability and not a war climate of micro-party fascist, when taxes are fair and citizens understand why they are paid, when justice is not late to speak, and when it is not required by bad laws to do the wrong, then only then the private body's choice is the best for the citizen and therefore for the country. The Centro Association therefore believes in privatization, when it is done in such a way that it does not question whether or not it has actually contributed to the public sector. It is another thing to do a privatization and another thing to make a sale. The Centro Association has never agreed and will never contribute to a privatization that cannot prove to be beneficial to citizens. Our political positions are therefore in direct contrast to the concept of statism, that is to say, what the Minister proposes in this bill. In this case, however, we cannot discuss or ask for an international competition as a proper privatisation would require. It's not just things, you know. And that is because we cannot, neither can reality, nor the timing, nor our conscience, nor the logic of putting our signature in order to find another 2,300 families on the road in a moment. In a town where economic life has pierced, where nail and teeth dealers keep their businesses open, where the unemployed are approaching 40% of the city's population, we cannot add 2,300 other unemployed, as we cannot make an international competition by obliging anyone interested in keeping these workers. In view of this, we cannot give priority immediately to ensuring the traffic worthy of the Thessalonians, ensuring their jobs. They have heard a great deal about these people, and indeed they have been heard on the one hand and on the other. They then accuse the Minister of taking care of his own by turning OSH officials into civil servants. On the other hand, the Minister explains that all of these were party recruitments of PASOK and the New Democracy. With them - you know - the claims are reducing personalities, insulting characters, throwing mud on people who cannot defend themselves. Who really is to blame, who is looking for a job or who finds it in exchange for his vote? Just as we have come to concern this question with public dialogue, the size of the failure of the domestic political system is evident to all its greatness. Ladies and gentlemen, the most important problem caused by the lack of the domestic political system is the lack of prioritisation and hierarchy of social needs. What is important and what can wait for the next government to solve it, we decide on criteria that no one has to do with the real lives of the citizens. But the lives of the citizens are afflicted, but they are concerned with politicians' minds even though they were once looking at their pockets. The difference is that the politicians sent them to power to look at the public pocket and the public pocket and not theirs. So if we were to hear the citizens and ask them what they consider to be the most important priorities that this House should have had, then we should only do one thing clear. To find them between us, to agree and to agree and to work together for a better tomorrow. In order to do this, ladies and gentlemen, we need a common place. And only the admission of the truth - I will not stop calling it as many times as I go up to this Step - can secure this thing for us. On this, then, which we all agree is true, we can start building the political stability that the place so badly needs, Minister. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Who disputes that OSTH acted like leechs in Thessaloniki? Who disputes that the Thessalonians have been wronged? Who disputes that Thessalonians deserve better and reliable transportation? The truth unites. The citizens know the truth. So, by admitting, ladies and gentlemen, the truth, we in the Centres are also saying that we are present. We are voting'representations' in principle, as our rapporteur, Mr Fokas, has said. And from the first moment after the vote on today's bill, we will begin to monitor the future that is being shaped for Thessaloniki under pressure and under emergency. The first priority for us is and will continue to be the proper functioning of the city of Thessaloniki. Minister, the future of the people is not a gift, but it is an achievement that comes from the sacrifices and work of the people, an achievement that comes from the hearing, tireless, unstoppable, inspiring work of its politicians, those responsible for this. And we all have this in this Chamber today, on your side and on our side. The future, Minister, will be judged. The Centro Association will have a say in this future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u166	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly inform you that there are two colleagues, Mr Koukoutsis and Mr Stamatis, the Parliamentary Representative of the ANELs, Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos, and the meeting will be concluded with the Minister's intervention. I don't know if any of the special speakers want to intervene.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u167	Mr President, for a minute, I will.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u168	I too, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u169	Immediately after the speakers you will make a small speech to follow Mr Spirtzis. Mr. Koukoutsi has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Mr President. I take this opportunity to ask the Left if it insists on its prior view that what happened the other day in Ermos is activism or para-state origin. We have to talk about their name sometime. This morning I heard an interview with the lawyer in Irianna, who was imprisoned. He spoke of injustice, unprotected unprotected unprotected custody. Unfortunately, we have felt it on our side by some people here in Parliament undisturbed and inconsistent, but, anyway, we did not put our relatives, the bald ones, or the para-states to do what they did. I'm ideologically in favour of state intervention and you don't have to be a marxist for this. I am in favour of creating a legal and institutional framework in which the functioning of the economy and the rational behaviour of individuals is ensured, so that they act creatively, to avoid social conflicts and to ensure social cohesion. This intervention, of course, should not be unlimited, but should be limited to the protection of the welfare state and the smooth functioning of the markets. The public sector should have the size that makes it efficient in order not to impede the rational distribution of the available resources of the economy, which is essential to ensure economic and social development. So far, I would say, ideologically, that there has been a positive sign so far in this bill. So you bring in a bill for the statement of the urban transport of Thessaloniki, while you are also incorporating Athens' urban transport at TIED. You are even proposing the argument of the State-owned body that hides 60 years of opacity. You refer to OSTH as a breeding area for old-fashioned communism. The Minister uses as argument that the contract between the State and the Agency has expired on the basis of his position in Article 8 of the European Regulation, which states: ‘From the publication of this Law in the Official Journal of the Government, the economic agreement between the Greek State and the Thessaloniki Urban Transport Organisation shall be terminated, due to the length of the period laid down in Article 8.’ The Minister included this reference in the bill even though he had in his hands the opinion of the III Section of the Legal Council of State, which is based on the same article of the European Rules of Procedure, precisely the opposite. In short, Mr Spirtz had the opinion of the Legal Council of State for a long time bypassed it and proceeded with the termination of the contract with OSH. The Minister argues that the excess was not established to privatise the entire public property, but at the same time to exploit it. As arguments for the new entity, the negative operating effects of the OSTH, the inability to pay a contract, etc. are set out. But questions about the operating costs of the new organisation and how it is financed are raised in the opposite way. Of course, in order to provide quality services, substantial investments must be made, but the state is obviously unable to finance it at the moment. The essential thing is that OSH reaches the Greek State through the market and not through the liquidation procedure, as originally foreseen. Of course, liquidation is foreseen since the OSH will already be a public asset. The average citizen, however, when he hears about deprivation, his mind goes to opacity and appointments, and that is why you learned him. The sure thing is that, as has happened with all the Greek state-owned companies, he will be able to join the supermarket and sell it very quickly. The citizen, ladies and gentlemen, of Thessaloniki is most interested in his service, good services and reasonable prices. How much he cares if the provider is a state or private. In a country struck by the crisis, but who can guarantee dignity, project evaluation, proper management, fleet renewal with modern vehicles and high level of maintenance? The Greek state? It's hard to see right now. Who will draw up regulations and organograms? Will there be a fair price policy? Will existing staff be exploited as necessary? After all, can the state guarantee the investments required for the modern services announced by the new entity? Following the events of privatisation by the present government, following your mutual policy and the gradual dismantling of your ideological identity, seeing in ministerial and parliamentary seats your pasophiles and remembering their political past, I cannot be tempted to ask you: are you in favour of privatization, for example. OSCE? 'Yes, you will tell me, 'Why do we do that'? You know, we must not forget, in this Chamber and in this country. I am tempted to return twenty-five years back, in the summer of 1992, at the time of the conversion of ESA into ESA, and especially September 9, 1992, in Socrates, at the appeals court, when employees of ESA went to take their criminal record to join the ESA and their unfamiliar Memory Stamulets "explored" - let me be allowed to express - on the road. Let's not forget. I am not referring very much to this House, however, because, for the sake of the right of coexistence, the Central Right - not to say so loudly, because the New Democracy is ashamed of the term 'right' - is forgetting them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos, Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, Mr President. I happen to live close to another privatization, i.e., contrary to what the Minister did, the privatization of Henry Dunan. In fact, recently, Mr. Loverdos, in a manifesto he made, told us to apologise for the way he handled Henry Dynan - it has a lot to do with what we are saying now - where an amendment was passed that if he had never been able to put hands on Henry Dynan. For those of you who don't know, Henry Dunn is a well-known public institution, so public that while IKA or TEBE at the "Health" or "Health Center" - I respect them, private centers - they define one 5% to 10%, i.e. if an intervention does about 1,000 euros, it justifies you about 100 euros and the rest you pay from your pocket, i.e., in fact you pay normally, " Henry Dunn" recognized 100% of the security of all Greeks. That was a part of his public character. It also gave specialty, time was pre-service in the ESS, did not pay VAT, the Ministry of Health appointed the entire administration. This hospital, the late Vgenopoulos, went to strangle it, because it was competitive - then had "Mother", "Leto" and "Health". And when Henry Dunn went to make a partnership with the "medical centre" - competitor - did not work as a banker who owed him money, acted as a businessman and literally started strangling "Chrik Dynn". Instead of agreeing to the administration, which sued Vegeopoulos, he was strangled by the Attorney's Public Prosecutors - he charged him with blackmail, for monopolies, etc., an incredible indictment - an invisible force, because I can't imagine who is stronger than a Minister at that time, withdrew all the legal means and ended up - not to say it now - " Henry Dunn" to get it a private company, "HIMITHIA". For those of you who don't know, Henry Dunan had thirty-eight Beds, where the poor Greek citizen, at a very difficult time in his life, without paying even half of the euro - that would say of a social and public character of Henry Dunan - he could save his life. They have therefore managed Mr. Loverdos and two other ministers to do a private clinic now "John Dunan". It's a cranial place today, this hospital. You can visit it and see it. It was a privatization. The opposite happened here today. Settlement crime is to remove a bed of intensive treatment unit because you take a life. They removed twenty-six, surgery no, closed floors, skull spot. And he told us to apologize. What did the current Minister do today? I, because I don't have biscuits in my hand to speak partyly, would like to say that the Parliamentary spokesman of the Centro Union for me said a lot of truths, because he's both Thessalonikios and why he doesn't chew his words and he doesn't have a reason to do so. He said what really happened to OSH. What's going on? Since 2013, my friend, Alekos, Triantafylides, has been counting -- 1.5m euros, then the Command, was not collecting it because it was the change he didn't give. If they were to dive an unemployed, a poor student, Mr. Saridis said so again, and I said so again, and he didn't have to pay, the administration didn't go in, he was finally paying for that state. I could talk until tomorrow about exactly what happened to OSTH. Mr. Saridis said it all and good for him. Worst? There is a cooperative called ‘HRAKLIS’. Who had HERAKLE and where did the trains rent? The Minister has said it several times. There was a party in the OSTH party, and I think it was too late to become what today's Minister, Mr. Spirtzis, did, in my view, do the same thing. There's a few things going on here. The philosophy of neoliberalism is conflicting, all in private - that was the point of my reference to Henry Dunnan, and to see how well it will come out - and not anything state-run. So I inform you that those of you who are going to Amsterdam - I do not believe that the Netherlands is any former Soviet democracy, it is a purely capitalist country - in the center of Amsterdam you will see only trams and bicycles. Trams are state, not private. I could mention many other countries. It is no coincidence that the regulation of the European Union, where we belong, enables Member States to choose a model, a state - private. It doesn't rule out private, but we've seen it and tried it. So I do not have much to say. I think it was a move that should have been made for years. And the people who today come in great comfort, what model do they propose? What the current Prime Minister is proposing is so sad that it is now under way. We'll see. However, I have heard all the Members of the Thessaloniki Parliament. No one bothered to defend the former regime. Nobody! Mr. Karamanlis didn't do well either. And he couldn't do it, because everyone knows what was going on. It is a new proposal that I want to believe we will see it in practice. I'm sure that thing that happened had to stop sometime. And today's Minister, Mr. Spirtz, stopped it, and in my opinion he did very well. I will not have to eat you any more time, Mr President - I would just like to remind you that the model of privatization of everything, for those who have not understood it, has finally and irrevocably led to a society, not 2/3, not I know what, where I will say it, and let me tire, but Oxfam. Minimum tycoons have assets. That's where extreme neoliberalism leads. At the moment few people are running the test on the planet, and if the planet does not self-destruct - I do not know how it will be done not to self-destruct, because the decisions are made by very few people - they will have assets as much as 3.5 billion poorer on the planet. I don't have to be left to tell the truth. This is the reality and I think that this model has a degressive course and we should see it again from the start. One can say here that the Soviet Union collapsed like a paper tower and it well collapsed. I did not say such a thing, but for everything the market rules are, no. These rules lead legally, one would say, to the self-destruction of the planet. What happens in Antarctica today is only Trump doesn't understand it, everyone else knows it. They've finally figured it out and somewhere it has to stop. So the least that this Minister could do was what he did. Here we are - I'm telling you honestly - to see whether this project will succeed or not. I want to think it'll work. It really will work, and we obviously welcome it, because it should have been a long time ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Dimitrios Stamatis from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister in his speech, in his short-term speech due to the selection of debates with the urgency procedure, found it appropriate to reach almost all the way to Kolokotronis, but not to talk about the bill. This, however, enables us to make a few comments. The first point is, Minister, the following. You said that this government had undertaken to take the country out of the memos. And because this government and its Prime Minister are consistent with what they say they have made sure to vote for two more memoranda. And because it is left-wing and socialist like you, Minister, it has loaded further 14.5 billion m, which are called on to pay off who? Pensioners and employees. The left conscience of this government and the Minister therefore led to the third and fourth memorandum, the loss of at least two pensions. This is the success achieved by the Minister and the government. The second is that he told us that this government has undertaken to put away old-fashioned communism. That's where the traditional goat laughs. I don't say it in the bad sense, but you're the representative of old-fashioned, mobile, old-fashioned OLA. Isn't that right? Well, let's know.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u175	I wasn't a minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u176	Don't claim that you weren't a minister. You were a mighty member of PASOK, despite the side of state ministers of PASOK, and we all know that until January...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u177	That's great, too. Who is it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u178	It's missing. If you don't want...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u179	Who do you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u180	Why don't the rest of your colleagues think so?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u181	Why don't you say it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u182	I'll tell you, gentlemen. I'll tell you. That's great! You have already had intervention, which almost blew up a piece of legislation that we tried here between the TEIs and the TEIs. One Minister on one hand with the EHS, you behind him and another with the TEIs. Well, I remind you of them, so you don't think we have a patient memory.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u183	I was with Caclamani.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u184	And you told us, too, that you wanted to build a new organism, healthy and strong. Yes, sir. Like that of STASH, which we handed over to you in 2014 with a operational surplus of EUR 6.7 million and you in 2016 presented a deficit of EUR 23 million? In one year your "successful" supervision has led to a loss, a loss of 30m euros. This successful way you want to continue in Thessaloniki too? Well done, congratulations. But beyond that, here you are obliged, Minister, to answer two, three questions, which are crucial, to reach a conclusion on what will happen next day. The first question is: has the troika been informed and what has he said? You cannot keep it a secret, since you are committed to the troika and because of the transport of personnel to the public sector you are obliged to ask for the approval of the Troika. The second question: what about Regulation 1370? This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. Mr. Undersecretary Mavragani, you are making the wrong interpretation of Article 106 of the Constitution, because you have judged it in a vacancy of time. Many events have taken place in the meantime. Our accession to the European Union and our obligations under European regulations. I ask, Minister, will you write him in your old shoes or change? You have to tell us. The third thing you have to say to us: Have you realised the legal consequences resulting from the opinion of the Legal Council of State, which tells you that this convention expires in 2019? If that happens, and you must answer us, we too can reach a conclusion why you are doing so. There has been an opinion here - I do not agree - that you have done so to comfort yourself. After the many tears you were shed for the fourteen airports you didn't want to give, you fell into deep depression and the troika said, give him brother and one thing to say that he's stalling it, calm his socialist conscience. I don't believe that. The troikas are tough. So I will tell you, ladies and gentlemen, a scenario, but keep it and you must answer, Minister. If the regulation, which excludes Athens only from the obligation to award transport by tender, does not change. If the Greek State is required, in accordance with the opinion of the Legal Board of State, to compensate the shareholders of OSH plus compensation for the installations. So if you can't state OSH. And if he goes to the suburbs, there's a reason the troika doesn't react. Because she'll have it, a clean organism with no debts, no weight to take it out on sale. But who will then be responsible for managing this matter? This government that you charged them with cutting two pensions, cutting one of the employees' wages. 'Cause then you won't be a government. You are shifting the burden of these decisions to this government, you are making our decisions today and you are calling on the next government to satisfy them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u185	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u186	I will end in a minute, Mr President. A matter has been raised, Minister, as far as the CBELs are concerned. They're right. You admitted that they were right, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u187	You did it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u188	We didn't do that and let go of the populism. You are completely incapable of ruling, but in populism you are uncompetitive.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u189	Thank you so much!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u190	Are you planning on stacking the Kappa Tau?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u191	We'll see!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u192	So let them hear it, open their soul. Because that's your mind. Except you don't understand anything: Your socialist conscience knows what he's doing? He does what we refused to do. You have been in such a difficult position and you are doing what we had not only thought of, but even thought about the troika asking us. Congratulations! I'm coming back to the C.T. thing. This regulation must come quickly, because people are right and must not pay for a legislative gap resulting from the vote of today's law. You have made a commitment to cover it soon. And when we say soon, don't go back to your era, the old days, to the 'PASOK time'. For Mr Spirtzis from PASOK has inherited the sense of that hour, the 'PASOK time', which started saying twelve and went twelve at midnight. Do it fast.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u193	Mr. Comrade, we're at about nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u194	I am therefore waiting, Minister, for the answers to the three questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Ioannis Sahinides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u196	Thank you, Mr President. Although I did not intend to secondary, I feel the obligation to clarify certain things about what has been heard. We have heard from the majority of New Democracy MPs of course copying what the Golden Dawn has said, perhaps believing in the future that there will be an open window on the Golden Dawn to come. You laughed, gentlemen! It is a good thing that we, the Golden Dawn, have heard things in this Chamber, which, I would say, has been completely mentioned, the majority of the Members of the New Democracy. I am referring to European Regulation 1370, to which it has avoided repeated and diligent action, I would say, the Minister to refer. He did refer to the rules of law, to Article 106 of the Constitution, but he did not answer what we said by the first committee: if Regulation 1370 actually binds them or not. What made me a terrible impression was that I heard from Mrs Kafantari's mouth - who is also chairman of the committee that passed this draft law - saying that the draft law is environmentally friendly. Where does that come from? Has he gone behind an OSTH bus in Thessaloniki to see what he's making and tells us about a environmentally friendly bill? She told her that the fleet is very old. So she's against what she's saying on her own. It also referred to the use of the public property and accused the previous ones that it was not properly exploited through the GOI. If you are going to make use of the rest of Greece's assets in the way you do it through the U.S., you are on the wrong track. There was also an attempt to refer - and I would like to clarify here that the city of Thessaloniki is wrong - by Mrs Kafantaris to subsidies. To God, not that we are in favour of subsidies in this form. He said, however, that a city of one million - not a million, is one and a half million of Thessaloniki's population - in relation to the capital, which is five million, has received more subsidies. But he did not say what was heard by another MP, that the city of Athens has four different types of transport. So, proportionally, if comparison is made, it's much less money. I would like to make it clear again here that under no circumstances is the state being subsidised by private undertakings. What made me a terrible impression, however, is what I heard by an oral Member of the New Democracy that the old Karamanlis has swept away a war with Turkey. How? With "Cyprus is long"? The day before the opening of the Cyprus file, the only one who went to the House of Cyprus and raised objections was the Chief of the New Democracy. Really, what are they afraid of if the guilty were found and they were all soldiers? What names are they afraid of hearing? He forgot to tell us in all of this that it was his party that recognized the left and the Bolsheviks and had made them the long hand of the system and their own governments. There have been many wishes about quality urban transport, as has the other European countries. Wish and only wishes! Here we see that any of the old buses, even the urban buses of Athens, every week, every Friday night or every Saturday night, is conceived to make the route in front of the propellers become a bourgeois. We have seen on many occasions that most public transport is vandalized. So, before we go to replace any form of fleet, whether urban or subway, the government should first be able to impose this legality. Indeed, the shortest anecdoto - Mr. Saridis is missing - is not the metro of Thessaloniki, but the underwater artery of Thessaloniki, which some governments had the courage in the Thessaloniki Concert Hall, where Poseidonio is also on the edge of the pier to cut and ribbon. Fortunately, some idiots were not found to believe that they were invisible to drown! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, too. Mr. Amyras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u198	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be brief. I won't need two minutes. I would like to tell you that the future of the urban transport of Athens and Thessaloniki is predetermined. We know that from 2019 onwards the process of their release begins. As far as the content of liberalisation is concerned, I fear that the excess will give it, as the Athens Urban Communications Agency as well as the successor OSH will be the responsibility of the excess fund. And I ask you: why should we lean behind strangers and play against them two years, when we know that in two years' time foreigners will lead to their own measures and not to the measures of the cities that they should serve? We say: Liberation of urban transport now, both Thessaloniki and Athens. To maintain, of course, their publicity, but to be auctioned by international competitions and on the basis of the European rules on routes and not by the operators carrying out the project. I want to tell you this. If you hear private people - and I am addressing the government and the Members of SYRIZA - in urban transport and you are stretching and you are not comfortable, I understand that. Study and pay attention to Mr Ursouzidi's speech. Mr Ursouzidis made an excellent speech and at first said the good colleague and MP of SYRIZA said that a mixed shape - local self-government, chambers, individuals - could do the job, just as it suits the needs of Athens and Thessaloniki. Now we can't do the same, Minister. Now you've been statizing OSTH and since 2019 what? What are the steps? I'm done. We are voting against this draft law. But since today the government has solved the problem of the urban transport of Thessaloniki, I would call it - and I would call the Minister responsible, Mr Spirtzi - to deal with the Ioannina too. You know that at the airport of Ioannina the aircraft fuel supply station was removed. What's gonna happen? Do you know that charters are being cancelled from abroad, from northern Europe to the Yannina, because they want to continue their air travel to other destinations and do not have fuel to refuel to Ioannina? There is an urgent need to solve this problem. And that's where I'll say...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u199	What do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u200	What do we say? Wait a minute, Minister. The Municipality of Ioannistes and the hotel chambers offer to pay the cost of transporting fuel. Right now that we're talking, an airplane will have to land in Ioannina with its reservoir full, to continue in other branches its airplanes. That's not right. We are cutting Epirus off the international tourist market. You are also not the one who is responsible, but is there anyone who needs to deal with the Kythiras? For the past one month I have been asking questions, which remain unanswered and you know that Kytheras since 10 June have no ferry connection to Piraeus and Crete. You need to drive to Naples and get across. Tourist, economic and business have been destroyed. Here's the big, flaming issues. And I say we don't expect any strangers to drag us around and then complain as government that we lost, we lost heroic negotiation, we tried, but we didn't make it. I tell you we have time, we have the roadmap, as it happens elsewhere. For example, Croatia has, over a year, given eleven permits for water routes. In Greece three years were granted three permits. With the araba! Therefore, this year's waterplanes will be landplanes, in Yannina they must have an answer for their development future and Kythiras at last need a ship to catch Piraeus - Kythera. That's what I had to tell you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u201	Mr President, you have the floor for your dentistry for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u202	Mr President, I want your tolerance because I have many issues to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u203	You will have tolerance, but you have spoken in your protology for twenty-four minutes and the whole time is eighteen minutes. I would just like one restraint. You'll definitely have tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u204	Thank you. I would like to table some latest legislative improvements. Some necessary improvements are needed with regard to the process of legalising companies.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u205	Ladies and gentlemen, for us today, after the vote on the draft law, the attempt of our own policy, another policy on urban transport begins. The supervisory body, the OSITH, will design and control all urban transport in the metropolitan centre of Thessaloniki, buses, as well as the metro that will be done, because the project is moving forward. The works of civil engineering have been finished in the main work and we have gone to the extension for Kalamaria and soon work on electromechanicals begins. So it's not like it used to be. Of course, he will plan and control urban shipping. We have the next time the draft law is published, the establishment - at last - of the involvement of the first and second grades of self-government, without putting a euro in the planning body. Mr. Amyras, you haven't read it well. The municipalities, i.e. the Municipality of Thessaloniki, the chambers and social institutions of the city are involved from the first moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u206	On the boards of directors. That's all I'm saying. To be shareholders in the boards of directors. Run it themselves.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u207	But the boards are taking decisions! Where are they taken? They'll be shareholders too. It is provided for in the IAS, if they contribute what they must, either in cash or in cash. The municipalities of Thessaloniki and the Municipality of Thessaloniki have declared interest. With integration, therefore, in the design of these entities, and of the urban CBELs and the role of taxis, and the bicycle road and all urban transport of the metropolitan centre. I would like, because a lot has been said, to say what this body is replacing. It replaces the SYSTH, the board, a council, which had no access to the electronic system, had no organization, had eight engineers all of them. SYSTH's money was intended to be given by OSTH. I mean, the man in charge paid money to pay the auditor. This, gentlemen, of the New Democracy and Mr Stamatis, is a really special patronage. It's like the businessman pays the manager to control him. In Thessaloniki, more generally, not only on the subject of OSTH, but mainly on OSTH, you also legalised this. That is, what is being done irregularly throughout the country, that is where you have legalised it. The first fine to be introduced to OSH by SASTH last year was about EUR 1000 for the institutional framework that you set up. Workers shall be involved in the implementation of the transport project. Therefore, there is the participation of the labour centre you are asking for. You're talking about lowering wages. Gentlemen of the New Democracy, the wages that are reduced, they are not of the workers, they are of the "elect" employees of the OSH administration, who are obviously also yours "elected", to fight such a battle and to have such pain. They are not generally workers. Our aim is for the urban transport of Thessaloniki to provide the social work to be provided to the citizens of Thessaloniki. We should fight the battle along with the local government, the social institutions, the workers. To move the unemployed to Thessaloniki as well. Subsidized by the Greek public social groups. Make sure the vending machines change. There should be no special regime in arbitration to give billions of OSH shareholders. Do not rent real estate, commissions and commissions at multiple prices. Your criticism would be acceptable if we maintained OSTH as we found him from New Democracy and old-fashioned communism, if we continued to give hundreds of millions of euros every year, if we continued to have the Metro project of Thessaloniki stuck. The same applies - to a much lesser extent - to the urban transport of Athens. Just that the subsidisation of the OSTH is greater than the total grant of the urban transport of Athens, with a much smaller bus fleet, with a much smaller number of passengers, is enough for anyone to understand what has been going on for sixty years to date. Ladies and gentlemen, we must respond to the questions of Officerial Response. Mr. Dendias said the price would be fixed by justice. This is what we describe in the draft law. You ask us why we form two bodies. Because all over the world, there are, at least, two bodies: the body that makes planning and control, which has the supervisory role, and the body that makes the operation. And a few of us make up. You asked us whether our minds were bad and we want to exclude some of the upcoming elections to local government. If you tell us that you want to download Mr Stefanidis or the administration of OSTH in the municipality of Thessaloniki, this shows how much you want to change OSTH. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Also, you understand that hiding data from this body is very important. Until we took over there was no blog. He's too late to come. And you can be certain that the next period will come out of the shareholders' names from post-mortem and then to OSH. It may hurt your prolongation, but it's okay, you'll get used to it. It's not the only one. Because Mr Gülekas also told us about Mr Karamanlis, to say - and I said it in my first speech - that we respect the leaders of the rival party, but we are also studying them. And that's not a pretext. In the move, however, from Rigillis to Syngrou, and then to Piraeus, many things have been forgotten, Mr. Giuleka. Photo, books and the political position of the New Democracy in Transmigration have been forgotten. If you don't find it - I have the book here because we don't make fun when we say we're studying you, here's "The ideology of the New Democracy" by Mr. Callias - in your library - it's certain that Mr. Mitsotakis doesn't have it in the library of Piraeus now because the river keeps going to you to the sea! - We'll give it to you, you have it. You may find it in Mr. Teddy's library or Mr. Karamanlis. But it is certain that it does not exist there today. You also asked why I did not meet the administration of the OSH. I met her at the Ministry. I didn't go to the lunch at "Velidio", as Mr Hadjidakis did. I'm sorry. I'm sorry to choose with who I'm going out with or who I'm eating with. It's not my choice for agencies like OSH. There is also a wider misunderstanding about what the regulation says. No regulation says that 2019 saves and well will become open procedures everywhere, as you dream. These are yours. They're your interpretations. The European regulation gives every country the right to arrange for its urban transport. It does not allow what you have done, that is, assigning directly to a private monopoly, a state-owned, exactly what you did in Thessaloniki, a public transport project. He doesn't tell you if you want to be or not to be a public body. Where did you see these written? Only in the extensions you unlawfully made and did not send to the Court of Auditors. Nowhere else is written. Mr. Amyras, don't make such mistakes. At least you're reading. Also, Mr. Stamatis, in the TEI conflict - I was President of the Technical Chamber. I don't know if you forget. I don't know if I should have defended Mr. Kaklamani, who was particularly friendly, but I'm sorry, I wasn't defending him.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u208	The law!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u209	That doesn't mean anything. If you remember correctly, in Mrs Diamantopoulou's amazing reform plan for education, we were too confused because old-fashioned communism did not finally allow a definitive solution to be given to higher education and maintained a supposedly countermeasure to sustain it and have the same meteorologies that she had. And I come to the Legal Council of the State. It does not say what you call the Legal Council of the State. Read more carefully. I told the committees too. The Legislative Council of the State says that the extension was provisionally illegal. It was legitimised within the House that you brought this to the vote on the motion for a resolution, because you knew that if you took it to the Court of Auditors, the extension of the Convention would be illegal. I don't want to talk about it again. Workers. What are you asking us? Say people don't exist because old-fashioned communism sold the right to work? To function as the previous governments operated, re-institutional, that is, to say, 'did others put you on, so we're the ones who kick you out'? That's our difference with them, Mr. Amyras. For us there are no "ours" workers and "theirs" and we do not build a party state, as New Democracy did. No one of our mayors will go to get classified documents from the 25th address of the GCC, as the mayors of the New Democracy do today, in the debate on this draft law that we are discussing. I would like to welcome, at least, the placement of parties, such as the Association of Centres and DISY, which, if anything, expresses its opposition to what was happening in Thessaloniki. [[At this point the closing bell of the Secretary-General's speaking time repetitively rings.]] Although the New Democracy was in that logic, to have an alibi at least, it would do anything else. But obviously, what he wants is not to vote against, but to show that he was, is and will be old-fashioned, it was, it is, and it will be, that fuelled the parastate before the junta and the known old-fashioned mechanisms after. You're defending last night, you're old-fashioned, you're ruffles, and that's why you're coming here and now you're asking what you're doing with the Kappa Tau. You're right, you say. Who did this, Mr. Stamatis, with the CBELs? Who? Did I? Didn't you?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u210	To move from the airport to Kofalia with a euro.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u211	Didn't you put people in and pay their money to take illegal OSH shares? Are the OSH shares transferred in accordance with the laws you have created? You have built ostensibly to waste the money of the Greek people, when at the same time you dissolved the Greek people and the Greek society.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u212	Minister, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u213	I'll be done. And where are the anti-constitutional issues you put? Is Article 106 unconstitutional and Article 5 of the Constitution unconstitutional? To understand what you're saying, is the anti-constitutional provision of the Constitution? Are you going to get us out of our minds? I'll give a warning to those who threaten the government that we'll have judicial involvement. There'll be all that hangs in the air. Listen, we're looking for those who have to go to court. In Thessaloniki - because we are dived in the past - Gregory Lambrakis, George Tsarouhas and many others were murdered. But that's where Sargetakis acted, you know. This people have also made Tertset and Polyzoidi. There will be fifteen of us for each appeal. That's not a threat. So we are not frightened by your mechanisms or by the courts. We're looking for them. With this SYRIZA - ANEL government, Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras will take the country out of the crisis, make Greece a normal democratic country. The mechanisms you have developed all these years in Thessaloniki, in the capital of the parastate of the country prior to the Transmigration, in the capital of old-fashioned communism until now, are over by this government in all areas.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u214	Please, Minister, you're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u215	I shall conclude, Mr President, with one paragraph.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u216	But you've spoken for 15 minutes already.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u217	We will build a country without the weights and commitments of old-fashioned communism, a country which respects every citizen, democracy, the environment, healthy productive forces, a country with social justice and fair growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u218	Thank you very much. We proceed with the vote...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u219	Mr President, I would like to speak. I have a right to a second. I didn't talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u220	Mr Colleagues, I have asked very strongly whether there is a special speaker who wants to speak again. I was told by Mr. Shahinides and Mr. Amyras that they want to be seconded.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u221	Mr President, you did not ask me. For Christ's sake! Can't I exercise my right?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u222	Can you hear me, Mr. Comrade? The Minister's closed the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u223	Isn't it my right to say a word, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u224	When it was time, you weren't in the Chamber to ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u225	It is my right to second place, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u226	You can't hear what I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u227	I listen very carefully.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u228	When the list of speakers ended and was the time of the special speakers, I asked and you were not present.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u229	I might have been out for a while, Mr. President. Didn't I come then?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u230	Please. If you would like, a little more politely to tell me by way of derogation from the Rules of Procedure to give you the floor and not to demand it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u231	I would be very kind to ask you to speak, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u232	Here, then, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u233	I will not need more than three minutes, Mr President. Thank you very much. I'd like to report. I have tabled an amendment concerning the CBC and the things that the CBC has necessarily accepted, as the CBC did not want. They took him on routes - and, indeed, vital routes at that time - and the CCEE is in danger today too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u234	He's already paid.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u235	He's already paid. They gave him shares that he paid for, thereby jeopardizing the CBC today. I have tabled this amendment and have been discussing it for two days. I spoke yesterday about the amendment, and I spoke today from the Step of plenary and the New Democracy did not take a stand. Nor was it placed positively, nor was it negatively.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u236	Mr President, I absolutely must respond.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u237	You have just said, Minister, that the amendment you cannot accept, but the contents you accept and we will sit down to see how we can regulate this, New Democracy has been hypocritically and is now in pain for the CCT. It hurts a problem created by the New Democracy along with PASOK, of course. Let's not forget that. A new member from New Democracy has rightly accused PASOK of being responsible for the government. But the PASOK became a partner of the New Democracy. PASOK is responsible for the greatest disaster. What I want from you, Minister, because you have indeed been sensitive to the issue of the CBEL, both in a debate we had together, but also in a debate with the people of the CBEL, is to commit that from tomorrow even - which is what the reason says - we will sit here and talk to people, because they are really struggling. They're honest people. They're the people of the toil and the backyard. On the other hand, the region - because we are talking about the Thessaloniki Region, where I am from - needs the presence of the CBEL. Especially the remote villages, what we call "the barren line" of the 2nd Thessaloniki needs from the CBEL. So, please, Minister, we must commit ourselves here that we will sit here and look at it, to provide a solution for the society of Thessaloniki, for the people of the CBEL who are struggling and who are making the cut and who are not supporting them. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u238	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u239	Tell me what you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u240	I'd like to give an answer on the Kappa Kappa Kappa Tau. It'll take a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u241	In any case, you have the floor for a minute, please, anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u242	A very small answer I'll give. It's heard here that the CCTVs have been forced. We're going to put things on their right base? The mayors of the 2nd District of Thessaloniki and many mayors at that time sought to extend the services of OSTH. Minister, you know that. Mr Lazarides, you should know that too, because you are a Member of the Region.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u243	Mr. Colleague, you said before...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u244	Just a minute! I didn't make a personal reference to you. I'm talking in general. But I'll tell you something else. You have tabled this amendment to the committee. Right? You testified it on the first day in fact. The Minister accepted it. Now he's pulling her out. Your intra-government problem is not transferring it to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u245	I didn't accept it. When did I take her?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u246	We had, from the outset, said to sit down and look at the matter and place ourselves in plenary. How can we be in plenary when we have not yet discussed the subject of the amendments and when a few hours ago this amendment was withdrawn? Should we, as a party, place ourselves on an amendment that is in the air? I'm sorry, but we can't do this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u247	Thank you, Mr Karamanlis. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles, amendments and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport is finalised: 'The new regulatory framework for urban transport in the Regional Unit of Thessaloniki and other provisions'. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u248	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u249	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u250	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u251	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u252	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u253	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u254	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u255	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u256	Therefore, the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport: ‘New regulatory framework for urban transport in the Regional Unit of Thessaloniki and other provisions’ was accepted in principle by a majority. We are entering the vote on articles and amendments and they will be voted on separately. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u257	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u258	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u259	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u260	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u261	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u262	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u263	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u264	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u265	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Can Article 2, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u266	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u267	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u268	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u269	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u270	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u271	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u272	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u273	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u274	Article 2 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 3 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u275	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u276	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u277	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u278	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u279	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u280	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u281	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u282	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u283	Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 4 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u284	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u285	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u286	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u287	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u288	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u289	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u290	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u291	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u292	Article 4 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u293	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u294	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u295	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u296	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u297	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u298	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u299	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u300	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u301	Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u302	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u303	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u304	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u305	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u306	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u307	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u308	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u309	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u310	Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 7 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u311	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u312	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u313	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u314	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u315	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u316	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u317	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u318	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u319	Article 7 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Article 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u320	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u321	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u322	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u323	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u324	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u325	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u326	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u327	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u328	Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 9 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u329	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u330	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u331	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u332	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u333	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u334	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u335	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u336	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u337	Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u338	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u339	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u340	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u341	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u342	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u343	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u344	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u345	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u346	Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 11 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u347	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u348	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u349	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u350	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u351	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u352	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u353	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u354	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u355	Article 11 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u356	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u357	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u358	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u359	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u360	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u361	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u362	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u363	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u364	Article 12 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does the House agree to Rule 13, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u365	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u366	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u367	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u368	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u369	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u370	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u371	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u372	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u373	Article 13 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 14 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u374	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u375	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u376	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u377	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u378	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u379	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u380	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u381	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u382	Article 14 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 15 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u383	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u384	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u385	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u386	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u387	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u388	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u389	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u390	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u391	Article 15 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 16 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u392	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u393	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u394	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u395	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u396	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u397	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u398	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u399	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u400	Article 16 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 17 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u401	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u402	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u403	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u404	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u405	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u406	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u407	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u408	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u409	Article 17 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 18 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u410	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u411	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u412	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u413	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u414	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u415	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u416	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u417	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u418	Article 18 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 19 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u419	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u420	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u421	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u422	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u423	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u424	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u425	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u426	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u427	Article 19 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 20 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u428	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u429	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u430	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u431	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u432	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u433	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u434	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u435	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u436	Article 20 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 21 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u437	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u438	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u439	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u440	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u441	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u442	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u443	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u444	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u445	Article 21 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 22 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u446	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u447	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u448	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u449	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u450	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u451	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u452	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u453	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u454	Article 22 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 23 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u455	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u456	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u457	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u458	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u459	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u460	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u461	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u462	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u463	Article 23 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 24 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u464	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u465	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u466	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u467	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u468	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u469	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u470	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u471	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u472	Article 24 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 25 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u473	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u474	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u475	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u476	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u477	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u478	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u479	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u480	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u481	Article 25 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 26 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u482	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u483	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u484	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u485	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u486	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u487	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u488	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u489	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u490	Article 26 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 27 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u491	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u492	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u493	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u494	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u495	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u496	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u497	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u498	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u499	Article 27 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 28 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u500	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u501	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u502	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u503	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u504	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u505	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u506	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u507	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u508	Article 28 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 29 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u509	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u510	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u511	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u512	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u513	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u514	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u515	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u516	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u517	Article 29 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 30 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u518	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u519	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u520	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u521	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u522	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u523	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u524	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u525	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u526	Article 30 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 31 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u527	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u528	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u529	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u530	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u531	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u532	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u533	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u534	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u535	Article 31 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 32 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u536	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u537	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u538	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u539	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u540	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u541	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u542	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u543	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u544	Article 32 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 33 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u545	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u546	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u547	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u548	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u549	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u550	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u551	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u552	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u553	Article 33 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 34 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u554	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u555	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u556	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u557	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u558	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u559	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u560	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u561	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u562	Article 34 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 35 shall be deleted. Does the House agree to the new Article 35, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u563	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u564	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u565	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u566	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u567	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u568	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u569	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u570	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u571	The new Article 35 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does the House accept the new Article 36 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u572	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u573	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u574	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u575	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u576	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u577	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u578	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u579	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u580	The new Article 36 has therefore been accepted as a majority. Does the House accept Rule 37 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u581	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u582	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u583	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u584	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u585	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u586	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u587	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u588	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u589	Article 37 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does the House accept Rule 38 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u590	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u591	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u592	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u593	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u594	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u595	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u596	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u597	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u598	The new Article 38 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does the House accept Rule 39 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u599	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u600	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u601	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u602	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u603	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u604	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u605	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u606	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u607	The new Article 39 has therefore been accepted as majority. Can the House accept the new Article 40 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u608	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u609	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u610	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u611	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u612	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u613	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u614	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u615	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u616	The new Article 40 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept the new Article 41 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u617	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u618	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u619	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u620	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u621	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u622	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u623	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u624	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u625	The new Article 41 has therefore been accepted as a majority. Does this House accept the new Article 42 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u626	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u627	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u628	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u629	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u630	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u631	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u632	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u633	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u634	The new Article 42 was therefore accepted as it is majority. Does the House accept Rule 43 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u635	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u636	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u637	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u638	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u639	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u640	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u641	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u642	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u643	The new Article 43 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 1108 and a special number 7 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u644	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u645	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u646	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u647	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u648	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u649	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u650	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u651	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u652	Therefore, the amendment under general number 1108 and special 7 was accepted as it stands and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment under a general number 1111 and a special number 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u653	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u654	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u655	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u656	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u657	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u658	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u659	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u660	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u661	So the amendment under general number 1111 and a special 8 was accepted as it stands and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u662	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u663	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u664	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u665	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u666	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u667	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u668	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u669	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u670	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. As a result, the Infrastructural and Transport Act: ‘The new regulatory framework for urban transport in the Regional Unit of Thessaloniki and other provisions’ was accepted in principle and in the articles. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u671	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u672	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u673	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u674	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u675	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u676	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u677	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u678	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u679	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport: ‘New regulatory framework for urban transport in the Regional Unit of Thessaloniki and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u680	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u681	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-19-S1-commons.u682	With the consent of the House at 17.56 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday 20 July 2017 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
