ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-10-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS The first question will be discussed under number 1125/4-7-2017, the first question of the first cycle of MP's I Thessaloniki Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Triantafylides, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject of "First Camp "Kotra": Augmentation of the area in a super-local park". The Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Catherine Papanatziou, will answer. Mr. Triantafylides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-10-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, Madam Secretary, thank you. The request, which is made, indirectly but clearly, is not personal. It is a collective request from the citizens of Eastern Thessaloniki, and in particular the Municipality of Kalamaria for this supranational pole of recreation, entertainment and culture, which is now devastated, and after twenty-three years of departure of the military, who have been within the camp since 1994, twenty-three years, where, not as we describe, but as they describe, both the newspaper reports and the Kalamaria municipality itself are deceived. We're talking, Minister, about the balcony of Thessaloniki. I have here a drawing for those who have visited Thessaloniki. We are talking about the space over Sofoli Street, in the Karabournaki area, which is defined on one side above Palataki. It's a space of about four hundred acres, in which there's a bucket, if you like, by property. As the services describe it, this is a box with eight categories of ownership and joint ownership in many cases. The question, however, is the unresolved crossword to be solved by the state and, Minister, to express the absolute political will that what the previous thirty years have not solved, we have the political will, but also the effectiveness of resolving it for who has, and with absolute respect for, the property and judicial decisions, to deliver this space to what the local community itself, the Municipality of Kalamaria, the municipal council, the Cataliots, will have, for whom I will speak in my second speech, the local bodies, the social bodies, the collective unions, and their appeals to the Council of State, to save this supranational pole of recreation, culture and entertainment. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In my second speech, I await your first thoughts - decisions. I would like to say that it is timely - and I am closing down, Mr President - that it is about the Radical Union Movement a few days ago, with the help of these considerations which I have mentioned. The Minister of State, Mr. Christoforos Vernardakis, was present, who listened to the former and the current. There, in fact, we planted a tree in memory of Minoan Alexiadis, the late and historic Mayor of Kalamaria. Finally, this area, for which I am going to speak, is what the Thessaloniki balcony is like today, should be exploited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-10-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr. Triantafylides. Ms. Papanaceu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-10-S1-commons.u4	Indeed, Mr Triantafylides, I will agree with you that the former camp "Kotra" is one of the most important free spaces in Thessaloniki. In fact, since 1983, a number of arrangements have been introduced to protect the area, characterizing some areas as green or as archaeological sites or as historic sites. In 1985, in particular, the establishment of a system of large cities of recreation, sport and cultural activities, which serve the entire area of Thessaloniki, including the area of the camp above. In 1987 the creation of green spaces, a super-local park and a spiritual centre and in 2005, by decision of the Deputy Minister of Culture, was described as a historic site. Also in 2007, with a decision of the Minister of Culture, sixteen buildings within the site were characterised as monuments, so that any intervention in them is prohibited, as they are inextricably linked to the history of the site and have special architectural and historical value. These are intended to house cultural activities and accompanying support functions in order to form a core of culture and environmental regeneration in the region. In 2014, by decision of the Minister for the Environment and Energy, a review of the general urban planning plan of the Municipality of Kalamaria, which provides for the area of the former Camp "Kotra", as land use, of the urban green area of the ultra-local nature. The investigation carried out following your question showed that the property of this property belongs to many operators, but also to individuals. Among the institutions, it is the Aristotle University, the Ministry of Culture, the Municipality of Kalamaria and ETAD SA. ex-CEN. Therefore, all the co-responsible bodies should cooperate to make use of this site. In fact, according to an ETAD S.A. document, the issue of the conclusion of a programme contract with stakeholders at the property AK 18461, the former Camp "Kotra" Thessaloniki, in which the ETAD will participate, should be examined, in conjunction with the provisions of Law4389/2016 and the urban status, as well as the property status of the property, resulting from it. For our part, the will to launch and facilitate the necessary measures is given to enable the property in question to be made optimum use of, and of, all public property in general. As far as your second question is concerned, the competent services of the Ministry of the Environment have already started the procedures required for the proper implementation of the judgment of the European Court of Justice on Human Rights, by making a relevant question to the Legal Council of State. I present to the Practical Document of the EBRD, a document from the Ministry of the Environment, a document from the Regional Unit of Thessaloniki, a document from the Ministry of Culture, a document from the Municipality of Kalamaria and a document from the State Secretary of Interior, Collia - Tsarouha.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-10-S1-commons.u5	Mr Triantafylides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-10-S1-commons.u6	I think the fundamental question is whether this situation, which is currently in place, Minister, is satisfying what we want. And I think that the unanimous and unanimous resolution of both Kalamaria and eastern Thessaloniki on this super-local pole of recreation, culture, entertainment as they see it is that it is now, really devastates. I read from the reports of the local newspapers: "Obvious to his fate, abandoned and "scrupulous" from the claims became a place of hospitality of the homeless, occupants, raccoon collectors and stray dogs. The former Camp Macedonachus Kodra is devastated, along with his story. Warehouses and small spaces that once served the needs of the camp, everything now is abandoned in a miserable state." You'll tell me they're overreacting journalists. I will submit to the minutes along with her post "Thessnews" just a year ago, on June 18, 2016, what mayor Kalamarias says on 30-6-2016 in his official document. "But the image of this historic place today is not flattering at all. Nobody knows who is responsible for the intervention to show up, who is responsible for the repair and maintenance of monuments, left to abandon and damage, and who is responsible for the protection of the space. The Ministry of Finance, as the owner of the land through the CED, must ensure that the owners are compensated, as the European Court of Justice has just said, recently. "On the part of the Ministry of Culture, no programming or corresponding funds appear. In a few years the buildings that have been protected on paper, will have been damaged to the point of irreversible, they will have disappeared." And we're talking about seventeen buildings. At the same time - I will table this too, which is 30 June - a document is sent to the Minister of Culture, the Minister of Finance, to the Deputy Minister of Macedonia Thrace from the Municipality of Kalamaria. I just remind you of the history - and this is clear from the Geographic Chamber, because we will not invent the powder - that the most important free space for the Thessaloniki town complex in terms of size, position and beauty is the ex-Chodra camp. This importance was recognised since 1909, when the Ottoman city commander planned the construction of the garden of Thessaloniki to this extent, while the French town plan was drawn up after the fire of 1917. Watch out now, the strange games of history: 1917-2017. We're a hundred years later. Heprar defined this site as the municipal garden of Thessaloniki. At the moment, this place, the balcony of Thessaloniki, the municipal garden, during the Empire, has been turned into a dump. So if we want and there is a political will to be overturned, we must immediately draw up the unresolved crossword of the eight categories of ownership and co-ownership to unlock it. We must resolve this crossword of ownership and respond immediately to the demand, which is also seen in planning. Already the government has given its print to the west of the city with the concession of the “Pavlou Mela” camp. What was a request of thirty years has only met a two-year government. The same should be done in the east with the former Kodra Camp, which has been untapped for twenty-three years. This is the city's cross of development and dowry: in the north of the Shahih Sou, in the south the coastal front that is shaped, west of the "Pavlos Mela" and east of the former Camp "Kotra", where we will not say, Madam Minister, what will happen in there, but we will define it and protect it as a super-local pole of recreation, entertainment and culture with complementary functions in relation to the "Pavlou Mela". There, we said, we will make a museum of national resistance and a museum of refugee Hellenism. We're not gonna do the same thing on the other side of town, because he's over-optimistic. It is about the whole town complex that lives about half a million people.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-10-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Triantafylides, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-10-S1-commons.u8	I'm closing, Mr. President. Thank you for your tolerance. There, then, the local bodies, the municipality, the municipal council, the municipal bodies, the collective bodies, the universities, the Aristotle, the University of Macedonia, the Department of Architecture of the Land, the new minds, the young people will put innovative, new functional and attractive ideas. Note something: there must be synergies of all. It must not end up with an example - like Antonis Tritsis Park in Athens, where there are costs. But there must also be revenue in order to be able to function, to be illuminated, to be kept, to be kept clean, to be a space of four hundred acres.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-10-S1-commons.u9	Mr. Triantafylides, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-10-S1-commons.u10	Thank you. We wait in practice: Do you love Thessaloniki? Evidence.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-10-S1-commons.u11	Ms. Papanaceu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-10-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. In view of everything that has been said in my prototype, but also in the context of what you are presenting today in the House, I would like to reiterate that every effort will be made in coordinated manner, in order to provide the best possible solution for the use of this area, always safeguarding our cultural and historical heritage and the wider interests of the Greek public. In this context, we are already in cooperation with the Office of the Prime Minister in Thessaloniki and with all the stakeholders, in order to achieve the creation, as you said, of a super-local park of sports and cultural activities that will turn this place into a room - breath and upgrade the whole of Thessaloniki. After all, the importance attached to this project - you mentioned it in your protagonist - by the political leadership is clearly demonstrated by the visit of the Minister of State, Christoforos Vernardakis, to the former Camp "Kotra" in an event dedicated to Minoan Alexiadis, the left-wing fighter and former Mayor of Kalamaria, who died without seeing his vision take place, that is, to give the space to the citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-10-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, before we move on to the next timely question, let me inform the House that Mrs Megalo-Economics, by letter to the President of the Greek Parliament, which will be registered in the Minutes, announced her independence from the Parliamentary Group of the Union of Centres.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-10-S1-commons.u14	We continue with the third under the number 1113/28-6-2017 topical question by the Independent MEP II of Athens Mr.Theocharis Theocharis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject of "Subject to the decision of the TE on the unconstitutionality of limitations on tax controls". Mr. Theochari, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-10-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in March of this year, the second part of the Council of State made a very important decision, on 275 of 2017, according to which it considered the extensions of limitations to be unconstitutional, in which it has, by itself and throughout the previous period, made a number of governments trying to respond to the so-called public on law, that we should not let lists be deleted and we should extend the limitations. As you know, the administration in such cases and because this matter was referred back to plenary, did not take into account this important decision. But two weeks ago, the plenary unanimously adopted Resolution 1738 on the previous decision and considered the extensions of limitations to be unconstitutional. The reasoning was multiple: Tech reasons. The reasons for the change in the way the data had been collected over the years and I had the honour of leading the General Secretariat of Public Revenue, when too many systems were able to collect data and allow monitoring to be carried out much faster and therefore do not justify limitations. On the other hand, Article 2(2) (p. 1 and Article 5(1). 1 on legal certainty, read in conjunction with Article 78 of the Constitution, which does not permit retroactive taxation in accordance with the reasoning of the Council of State, does not allow for limitations and was therefore considered to be non-constitutional. Of course, it does not exclude the right of the administration if substantial and real new elements are found, to extend these five years to ten. Since, however, your Government with other Ministers, which is not directly involved in this decision, has strongly criticised justice, in fact through social networks and measures, it is really very important and imperative that the Ministry of Finance should take a position on this decision if it considers it positive, negative and how it will implement it. So I ask you: what are the directives to be given to tax matters affected by the Council of State's decision in the near future? How do you intend to prioritise listing cases that go to delete, such as the Lagard list, Borgians and the others? Is there planning to strengthen human resources in order to control tax matters taking place at the end of the year? What is your Ministry's actions to control cases that have been dropped but are of criminal character, such as cases of large tax evasion? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-10-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr. Theochari. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-10-S1-commons.u17	First of all, Mr Theocharis, I would like to point out that you have moved very quickly, too quickly, one could say, in the context of the publication of the decision of the CoR, which, at least when you tabled your question, had not been able to be cleaned up and notified to the Greek State, as the Legal Council of the State informed us. However, one is very easily aware of the interest of this particular case, within the context of the parafiscality of the lists that have been deleted and the tax fugitives who have been acquitted. Let us start by saying that the judicial authority, which we trust, is, as we know, independent, and I will therefore not be in the process of explaining why the court ruling. As far as your individual questions are concerned, I refer to the following. Instructions on the application of the provisions for the limitation of the State's right to notify control sheets will be given to the officials of the Independent Public Revenue Authority at the initiative of the Heads of Authority or of the Commander himself and, if necessary, by them. I believe that following the notification of this judgment to the Greek State, there will be a need for a comprehensive briefing on the current state of the limitations. So I consider that it would be appropriate for the head of the Independent Public Income Authority to take such action. However, it is not my responsibility to interfere in his work. With regard to the prioritisation of the cases to be examined in general, I should like to mention in this connection that, initially with L.4472/2016, we have re-examined the existing regime, now establishing a 70% selection regime for cases in the last five years and 30% for cases in the past, with a view to better targeting and decongestion of the auditing authorities from cases for which such a long time has elapsed since their birth, in order to make this control particularly difficult. In addition, in accordance with the Code of Conduct in force, cases controlled by a decision of the Commander of the Independent Public Revenue Authority on the basis of risk analysis criteria, internal and external sources of information or exceptionally on the basis of other criteria determined by the Commander of the Independent Public Revenue Authority and not made public. In addition, a decision of the Commander of the Independent Public Revenue Authority shall determine the number of partial or or full controls to be carried out within the following year by priority on the basis of risk analysis criteria and other elements. With regard to the strengthening of human resources, both the staff management of the Ministry of Finance and the staff management of the independent authority continuously take the necessary steps to ensure as fully as possible the full management of their services with a focus on their audit services, which are the top of the spearhead for both bodies. Our Ministry has already carried out a series of actions to strengthen the Special Secretariat of the ILO, which continues to carry out its audit tasks with unrelenting intensity and aims at economic crime. Already at the moment there is a process of recruitment already in progress, a process of transfers to the Special Secretariat of the ILO, but also a new notice of recruitment in the same service. We are also at the stage of legislative preparation for the establishment of a new structure in our Ministry under the supervision of the Financial Prosecutor, which will have as its sole responsibility the execution of tax orders. Our aim is for this structure to be adequately staffed with competent staff and to aim effectively and effectively at cases of major tax evasion. In the same context, according to the information we have from the AIA's Human Resources Management Directorate, particular attention is paid to the staffing of tax services with a series of notices, but also to constant consideration of all the best conceptual solutions - movements, secondments, transfers and transfers - in order to upgrade the supervisory services of the authority and to effectively carry out their work to combat tax evasion and protect the public interest.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-10-S1-commons.u18	Madam Minister, please, you'll be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-10-S1-commons.u19	I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. I submit the relevant documents of the Ministry's services and the independent authority. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mrs Catherine Papanatsiou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] For the rest, I shall refer to my dentistry, so that I do not abuse your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-10-S1-commons.u20	Mr. Theochari, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-10-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President, and I would also like to thank the Minister for her compliment on the speed with which I have worked so that we can unblock this very important issue, which is of great interest to the public. You have also seen what the reactions and the side effects of dealing with these very important decisions have created by your colleagues in justice as a whole. And your colleagues show, apart from conspiracy in relation to this decision and ignorance of what is in the interest of efficiency. You know, Minister, you have answered me with a number of formal issues and some actions and some attempts that have been made, which I know. Moreover, the first risk analysis criteria I first as Secretary-General made by decision, because then it was, indeed, the time when this law was starting to work. The risk analysis leads to much better efficiency. I told you earlier the reasoning of the Council of State. The Council of State only spoke from the legal, constitutional and also spoke about the protection of taxpayers and citizens. But also in terms of efficiency - and we must finally tell the Greek people - that is not collected by controls that are decades, 15 years and various extensions of limitations. The failure of the administration to prolong the limitation leads to an increase in revenue, because the independent authority, at last, is freed from obscene and ungodly to deal with old cases that do not work. You know, there is a study by the Bank of Greece on the work done in 2012 and 2013, which proves that for every 1 euro of controls there are 20 euros coming from compliance. The relationship is 1 to 20 euros. Therefore, with the controls we do not want to collect, we want to set an example. And example can only be done when we control existing, live businesses, tax evasion operations last year and beforehand, not businesses that are nonexistent or dead, as we usually try to do. And a sample that you didn't have - or you didn't - even understand what happened is that you're telling me No.4472/2016, which was imposed on you by the troika and by the negotiations to put 70% of the cases five years. And this decision of S.H.E. It makes him inactive that law. The Council of State tells you that 100% of the cases must be five years, because, if it is checked, it is unconstitutional. And so, this thing that you did was actually imposed on you by our lenders, and our lenders come to agree with the judiciary and our own Constitution. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So - and I shall end, Mr President - we will obviously have to work effectively. Obviously, we should stop having the crowns, because SYRIZA has been telling us that the lists are a matter of political will and once it came to power, everything would be much better. And what evidence did you give us yourself a few weeks ago? The collectivity from the list "Lagard" is 16% and from the list "Borgians" 1%, which has brought - listen, listen, Greek people! -137,000 euro receipts. This list isn't worth it. The national economy has dealt with this list of "Borgians" much more than those 137,000 euros that it brought. If, therefore, you are concerned with real efficiency, I am sure this decision of the Council of State will be able to show you the way to collect and how we should function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-10-S1-commons.u22	Here, Ms. Papanatsiou, you have the floor for your dentology.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-10-S1-commons.u23	As regards the essential issue of the limitation and in view of the formal notification of the decision of the Council of Ministers, which will be studied by the legal advisers of our Ministry, in order to correctly interpret and take all necessary measures and decisions, I will briefly state that the deadline for the exercise of the public's right to a notification of a document of control and corresponding determination is fixed at the beginning of a five-year period - you know it very well - the usual limitation in the Code of Tax Procedure, which may constitutionally - Article 78 of the Constitution - to be extended by means of a provision within the next year by tax claim. The tax laws, however, and not taking into account the annual extensions, which have been made from time to time by all the last governments, provide for other limitation periods in certain important cases. For example, I will refer to the 10-year limitation referred to in Article 68, in conjunction with Article 84 of the old Code of Income Tax of Law 2238/1994, which applies to cases until 31/12/2013, which is applicable in all cases, where new additional information is contained in the knowledge of the tax authority. Here I must stress that new elements that come to the knowledge of the tax authority are all that come from mutual assistance with tax or customs authorities from other Member States - Member States of the European Union or third countries, for which we have the effect of proving that the taxpayer's transactions are inaccurate. I would stress that in this case all foreign lists fall, as are the famous list of Lagards. There is no money here, as you mentioned before, and that it is very good - I will agree with you - for business controls. We've found that there's really money on the lists, so we have to move on to control by the end of it. In order not to overlook the essence of the operation of the control mechanisms, however, let us look again at the figures that the Prime Minister pointed out last week. By 2014, a hundred and fifty-three cases on the Lagard list had been initiated and thirty-eight cases have been completed, and from 2015 until now, three hundred sixty-six cases have been opened and seventy-two have been completed. Of these, at the same time, to check the same list, the amounts established since 2014 are 23 million euros, while in the period of SYRIZA-ANEL coexistence it is 233 million euros. In addition, in the absence of a declaration, such as in the case of income tax, the limitation shall be 15 years, in accordance with the Income Tax Code and 10 years, if no VAT clearance or extraordinary statement is submitted in accordance with the VAT Code. With regard to the criminal aspect of tax evasion, it is clear and clear legally that the criminal offence is automatically controlled and criminal sanctions are imposed independently of any administrative limitation. However, it should be stated that a provision of the Code of Tax Procedure, which establishes a 20-year limitation on the State’s right to adopt an administrative, estimated or corrigendum to tax evasion, is already in force. And when we talk about tax evasion, after the amendment made in the summer of 2015 to the abovementioned code, we now mean criminal tax evasion as defined in Article 66 of that code. The above is also clear from the circular number 1142/2016 - a directive by the head of the then General Secretariat for Public Revenue and now an independent Public Revenue Authority, which clearly refers to the concept of tax evasion in the defined tax evasion crimes referred to in Article 66. It follows from the above that the current provisions provide for cases of ten-year, fifteen-year-olds and twenty-year-old limitations on serious tax evasion cases and you can be sure that they are of interest to our Government and we will proceed to them by the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-10-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Minister. We continue with the second with number 5414/5-2017 question of the circle of petitions and questions by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOKs - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Health, on the operation of an urban-type health centre in Chania. The Minister of Health, Mr. Andreas Blondos, will answer. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-10-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. As it is known, Minister, after the new Hospital of Chania the old building in the city remained untapped and it was even considered that it could not be reused for another reason, but it was chosen to demolition. Thus, in November 2011, by decision of the City Council, it was decided to demolition it and the proposal to act as a civil-type health centre in the same area. In fact, he responded to the Ministry of Health, and immediately by decision of the Minister, the project was approved: "Centre of Urban Health of the Region of Chania", with a body implementing the Municipality of Chania itself. The project, as you know, was incorporated into the NSRF, the Regional Operational Programme of the Region, by decision of the regional manager in 2012, in order, in addition to demolition, to build up the new building and to carry out the necessary equipment. Since October 2015, as I mentioned in my question, the construction of the project has been completed. It is in the last phase, it seems, too, that the supply of equipment, the process of which has been delayed. What I am interested to know on behalf of also the citizens of Crete, but in particular of the Municipality of Chania, is whether the procedures for the call for the maintenance of the health centre in accordance with the planned and at what stage these procedures of the notice for the maintenance of the health centre are in place.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-10-S1-commons.u26	Good. Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-10-S1-commons.u27	Mr. Kegeroglu, in fact, the story of this structure is the one you described to me. The truth is that I at least don't have the impression that the creation of the civil-type health centre in the area that was the old Hospital of Chania was the result of a more general plan for the development of urban health centres across the country or even in the area of Crete. Obviously, the space was available, there was also the financial capacity. It was therefore chosen to make this investment. A thirty - seated organization, twelve doctors and eighteen other staff were predicted. In fact, there has never been a gradual, even, plan to cover these positions since the completion of the building facilities. What we have done, then, is that, first, the 7th Ministry of Foreign Affairs made a programme agreement with the Municipality of Chania to complete the project, buy the equipment of which I now learn that the supply is compatible. Above all, what the 7th Health Region decided to do is to integrate this civil-type health centre into the overall development planning of the new primary care structures that we have planned for the whole country and which we will, I hope, legislate within this month. We will have the opportunity to pass the bill that will reform, reorganise this sector with the new local health units. The prevention, therefore, is that of the five local health units, which will be developed in the urban complex, in the urban area of Chania, the two will be housed in this building and will therefore enable it to function quickly and hopefully and upgraded services. These, as you know, local health units will have a staff of 12 each. In the next few days - we believe next week - a notice will come out through the special sectoral programme of the Ministry of Economy for the reform of the public sector. You know that this programme for the development of these new structures and their staff will be financed for the first four years by the NSRP, at the beginning of the specific sectoral programme of the Ministry and then by the regional OPs. Of course, there is a gradual involvement strategy and the state budget, which will take place after the end of European funding and the functioning of these structures. So with the two local units that will work in this health centre, which will have, if all positions are covered, about twenty-four staff and already trying to cover two positions with a notice, 7K/2017, which is in progress - is a PP position of nurse and a PTH position of Midian - I think we are creating a critical mass of human resources, medical and other health professionals, which can be set up in the next few months, that is, with the aim of starting to operate and provide services in an area of primary care that has actually been degraded and reorganised in recent years. Note that within the city of Chania there is the unit of PEDY which is on Souda Avenue. It is a very good building with great potential from the point of view of infrastructure and equipment, which, of course, after Law 4238/2014, left a very large proportion of the ECY doctors, has only been with seven qualified doctors, from about thirty who had the previous period. We are also trying to strengthen this as much as possible. We've already hired an assistant doctor. So we try through these two primary care poles to support as far as possible the needs of the urban population of Chania, which are currently basically served by the PEDY and the Hospital of Chania.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-10-S1-commons.u28	Mr. Kegeroglu, here you are, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-10-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, if you see in the "Programme of the Region of Crete 2007-2013", as regards the health centres that were integrated, the multi-medical hospitals, there was a design by the MAI to build the buildings and supply the equipment. In addition, for the City of Chania civil health centre was the joint ministerial decision you referred to, which provides for a specific staffing, but not just that. It provides for a purpose and function. On the basis of this decision, which is essentially the permit for feasibility, entry into the MAGP was approved. This means that it should work as a health centre. With what you have said, it will essentially be two TOMY, namely, some medicine, not even a multimedical hospital. In this sense, I believe that there is a risk that the money will be demanded from the ESRB if not approached. Therefore, there should be special regulation for the City Health Centre in Chania and the other health centres throughout the country that are made by the NSRP and regional programmes, because they are around the whole country. There should be specific regulation and it should not be just one or two TWGs housed in health centres, but serve and implement the purpose for which they were financed. Otherwise there is a great danger. Besides, the Haniots are waiting for an integrated health center. That's what they have. The planning for Chania, for the city, is complete, in the sense that there was a collective decision by the municipality and a concession by the Ministry of Health to the municipality that was the body implementing the project. Then the concession, to which you referred, was made through the programme contract from the Municipality of Chania to the 7th Ministry of Foreign Affairs. So there's a design that can't have a void and at some point the health center turns into even two TOMYs. That can't be. I think there should be special regulation and implementation according to the purpose for which the health centre with the FEO 617/6 March 2012 was established. Of course, this objective must be implemented, so that we do not have issues relating to the integration of the project into the ESDP, its implementation and the supply of the equipment that you have said is being completed these days. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-10-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Minister, here you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-10-S1-commons.u31	Mr Kegeroglu, we obviously have no intention of jeopardising the completion of this project or of requesting back funds from the NRP that have been invested for this purpose. We, therefore, will, realistically see the things and the real possibility that we currently have to meet needs in the public health system, we will make use of this land-based infrastructure to develop two new structures. Therefore, we will incorporate it into the overall plan of change that will take place in primary care. At the same time, of course, I am already telling you that two recruitments of permanent staff have been launched. By making use of the institution of permanent and subsidiary staff, we will try to have the critical mass, which will make it possible not to call into question the purpose of this investment - namely to have a centre of urban health within the city complex of Chania - but taking into account that we also need to support the other structure, the PEDY, which will now be renamed with the new bill that we are going on at a civil-type health centre - that is, we will have two urban centres in Chania - which also has very good infrastructure, workshops and specialised staff. By combining the operation of these two structures we believe that we will cover more of the care needs of the urban population of Chania. I therefore think that it is, in fact, a realistic attempt to exploit the existing resources, both human and material, and the infrastructure available to take a step forward in the reorganisation of primary health care. I would remind you that it has been the sector that has accepted the greatest abandonment and dismantling in recent years, especially after the mass exit of over three thousand doctors from IKA - EEA in 2014. The truth is, in the previous period, we have given more weight to hospitals. There was a accumulated demand on the part of the citizens, because citizens are really looking for services from the public health system today because they do not have the financial capacity to address the private sector, such as a patron. There, then, was a great battle. We've achieved a stability in the system. We now have hospitals that have a gradually improved staffing and a more smooth function from the point of view and adequacy of materials, equipment, medicines, etc. Now this year is a year that we give priority to the structures of primary health care. We have civil-type health centers that we first put into 24-hour operation, 24-hour on-call. We started with Eusmos in Thessaloniki. Today is the first day that operates in twenty-four-four hours on Alexandra Avenue. We will extend this to other parts of the Lecade. We will try to reproduce it in other large urban centers in the country, so that we can create a filter effective for coming in incidents, especially at the time of on-call in public hospitals, where there is a great deal of suffering and waiting for citizens. I think, therefore, that if we need a special regulation, as you said, which absolutely ensures and does not cause any problem with the management of these projects, we will see it very specifically.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-10-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The second question, under number 1159/4-7-2017, is the first question by MP Fthiotidas of New Democracy, Christos Stakos, to the Minister of Finance, on "Financing actions from criminal actions against the Greek State and making available for social purposes", will not be discussed due to the absence of the Minister responsible abroad. Likewise, the first question under number 1126/4-7-2017 of the Athens Radical Left Coalition, Georgios Diakrias, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Appropriate application of a social cooperative fee will not be discussed after consultation of the Deputy Minister with the MP. The second, with number 110/4-7-2017, topical question of the second question of the new Republic's MP, Mr. Savvas Anastasiades, Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the housing problem of the Greek School of Munich, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the questionable MP. The third with number 1168/4-7-2017 a top-level question for the first cycle of the Greek Communist Party MP, Ioannis Delis, to the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the permits of deputy teachers, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister responsible. The fifth, under number 1116/30-6-2017, top-level question of the first cycle of the Greek MP, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Health, on the subscribing of the General Hospital of “Papagorgiou” Thessaloniki, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister responsible. The sixth under number 976-6-2017 topical question of the second-cycle MP Halkidiki of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Save Vlachos Salvation to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Halkidiki Diseases are jeopardising the lives of citizens", will not be discussed due to an obstruction of the relevant Minister. The seventh under number 923/1-6-2017 topical question by the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Papapas to the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Fulfilment of the Order of the Nation", will not be discussed due to an impediment of the Minister responsible. The first question under number 5212/499/26-2017 and application for the submission of documents of the reporting and questioning cycle of the MP Laconia of New Democracy Mr. Athanasios Davakis to the Minister of National Defence on the subject: "Following the "Pavlou Mela" Camp will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister responsible. The fourth with number 1119/3-7-2017 a top question for the first time in the U' Vice-President of the Parliament and MEP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance, on the theft of electricity, will not be discussed due to an obstruction of the relevant Minister. The fourth question under number 1032/16-6/2017, with regard to the bet companies, will not be discussed by the relevant Minister. The fifth question under number 1026/14-16-2017 of the Independent MEP Mr. Dimitrios Koukoutsis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Prospects and needs of the International Airport of Kalamata", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister responsible. The eighth Question No 931/2-6-2017, on the second question of the Athens MP, Mr. Georgios Amyrias, on the Siemens case, will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Minister responsible. The ninth under number 924/1-6/2017 a topical question for the second parliamentary court of Athens of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Eleni Zaroulia to the Minister of Finance, concerning the appointment of judge in the administration of the Supreme Council, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister responsible. Finally, the tenth under number 948/6-2017, a topical question by MP II Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece, Athanasios Vardalis to the Minister of Finance, concerning the Greek Vehicle Industry "ELVOABE", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister responsible. That concludes the debate on topical and urgent questions. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-10-S1-commons.u33	(a) at the request of Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras, in accordance with Rule 142a of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, on the subject of the Cyprus question negotiations; and (b) a statement by the President of Parliament, Mr Nikolaos Voutsis, pursuant to Rule 51(4) of the Rules of Procedure, on the Protocol on Cooperation between the Greek Parliament and the House of Representatives of the Republic of Cyprus, on access to the material of the ‘Federal of Cyprus’ and on the subject matter, in accordance with Rule 51(4) of the Rules of Procedure, on the Protocol on Cooperation between the Greek Parliament and the House of Representatives of the Republic of Cyprus, on access to the material of the ‘Federal of Cyprus’ and decision, in accordance with the specific agenda distributed.
