ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to announce to the House the news sheet on Thursday 23 March 2017. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 614/20-3-2017 by MP Laconia of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Stavros Arachovitis to the Minister of Home Affairs on the status of police officers. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 610/17-3-2017 by MP Halkidikis of New Democracy Mr Georgios Vagionas to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity concerning the Ministry's intention to degrade the branch of formerly IKA - now ECA - in Nea Moudania Halkidiki. 3. Question No 616/20-3-2017 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the adoption of a Presidential Decree on the recognition of the professional rights of graduate engineers TEI. 4. The Question No 608/16-3-2017 by MP Pella of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Ioannis Sahinides to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on anti-purpose protection. 5. The Question No 617/20-3-2017 by MP Magnesia of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Konstantinos Steerios to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on “not the burning of waste at “AGET Hercules” Volos”. 6. The Question No 612/17-32017 by the Member of the Attica of the Independent Greeks Mr Konstantinos Katsikis to the Minister of Finance, concerning the payment of allowances from expropriations from immovable property. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 615/20-3-2017 by the MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nikolaou Symbleniou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the Single Social Security Agency (ESA).). 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 611/17-3-2017 by the Deputy State Minister of State of New Democracy, Dimitrios Stamatis, to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, concerning statements by the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs about the election gatherings of Turkish parties in Greece. 3. The Question No 609/16-3-2017 by MP Mr Piraeus - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Lagos to the Minister of Foreign Affairs about the election gatherings of Turkish officials in Greece. 4. The Question No 618/20-3-2017 by MP Aitolokarnania of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Moraitis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport on the danger of the national network of Amphisia - Lefkada - Preveza - Igoumenitsa. 5. The Question No 593/13-3-2017 by MP Kilkis of the New Democracy Mr Georgios Georgios Georgiodas to the Minister of Culture and Sport on the design for the abolition of the Antiquities Literature Kilkis. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Question No 2857/24-1-2017 by MP Pellis of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Theodoras Jackis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the position of farmers in the food supply chain. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Question No 2787/23-1-2017 by Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, Vice-President of Parliament, and Member of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the management and exploitation of the real estate of the Ministries of Health and Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Standing Committees on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice and Trade present their report to the draft law of the Ministry of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information "Measures to reduce the costs of setting up high-speed electronic communications networks - Harmonization of legislation in Directive 2014/61/EU and other provisions". MEP Mr Theocharis (Harris) Theocharis is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad from 23 March to 28 March 2017. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u2	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK A sole debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: "Following the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Environment and Energy of the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Industry and Energy of the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on Cooperation in the Renewable Sources and Energy Efficiency and Other Provisions". The draft was adopted by a majority in the Standing Committee. It is introduced to the House in accordance with the procedure laid down in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, namely those who object to the ratification of this memorandum. What colleague wants to take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u3	I, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u4	Here, Mr. Shahinides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u5	Not for the amendment. Right, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u6	The amendment is embedded.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u7	Will we make a position on both ratification and amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u8	Yeah, one.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u9	Because we want to talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u10	You'll have the floor, don't have a problem. Here, Mr. Shahinides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u11	I want your tolerance, Mr President, for more than a minute of your time. As we can easily see, in the debate on this bill only the Golden Dawn has been placed in total on its articles and orders, while all the other representatives have dealt almost exclusively with the unacceptable amendment to the forest maps given to Members only a little while before the committee was set up. From that point of view, the anti-constitutional method of codecision is based on two considerations: on the one hand, the government itself is downgrading the importance of the draft law which is proposed and, on the other hand, that it follows the same established practices that it condemned as opposition, namely the introduction of unrelated amendments to unrelated legislation, in direct contrast to the Constitution and the provision of Rule 88(3) of the Rules of Procedure, which states explicitly that the amendments must relate to the main object of the draft or proposed law. In addition, this amendment on forest maps that has erupted a storm of reaction throughout Greece, with the result that public buildings are occupied and massive events are taking place against it, obviously it involves some sort of appropriateness for the government to introduce it in such a way, of course, unacceptable. In our assessment, its introduction is to open up the way to questioning the ownership of countless areas of private individuals, particularly in rural areas in the country, with a view to exploiting them for commercial reasons by the government, which has sold everything to foreigners for ninety years. ^^^^^^^^^^ They are the same today those rulings who brought hundreds of praetorians down to the allegedly indignant opposition of their predecessors, just as responsible for the destruction of the country for every small or large privatisation, in order to protest against the relinquishment of the Greek wealth, both at the level of private property and at the level of public property. And while the whole territory is in full turbulence because of the government's sudden decision to reshape the maps with pre-war aerial photographs, creating a climate of terror of confiscation of citizens' property, it is now coming, with a dislocation, to prolong any objections that are raised by the citizens, by paying for their delay to object to various committees. So this unprecedented downward trend, which can only be achieved by specific directives from abroad and is being implemented, proves how enslaved and disadvantaged the present government is, the only thing that really concerns it is not the extension of the deadlines for opposition, but the extension of the deadline for its stay to the ministerial chairs. In fact, it is absolutely characteristic of mocking, as is shown in writing by the amendment, that the extension is given as the interest of the citizens in the process of posting forest maps is particularly increased and a lot of requests have been made to extend this deadline. Did the government hear these requests? The universal demands for the immediate withdrawal of this infamous work of forest maps have not been heard, Minister? The calls of the operators from all over Greece, the owners' clubs, the regions, the chambers, the forestists, have you not heard them? So all the requests from the House, as expressed in the committee, are for immediate withdrawal. A mere remark about the curiosity and irresponsibility of the current government over the lawmaking so important for the country of order proves that it itself dismisses itself. Those, that is, that you voted just months ago from the list of repealed provisions show that you are coming to legislate by repealing Article 153 of Law No.4389/2016. When were you right? In May 2016, when did you vote for the provision, or today ten months later? It is therefore our belief that it has been repeatedly expressed through the committee and in the vote on those provisions that the issue of forest areas and their way of official registration must be done under a new legislative framework, seriously and responsibly, two elements which, unfortunately, are missing from your current government and its human resources, since, as the explanatory statement shows, following the publication of the Charter, become final and has full evidence of force in every administrative judicial authority. So the consequences for those in charge will be severe if this monstrosity continues to exist and produce legal effects. This, in addition to the question that will create the whole of the country's territory, will eliminate the citizens of the courts for the proof of self-evidentity, impoverish them financially because of the costs resulting from recourse to justice and, finally, will result in many of the land maps finding themselves here, without ownership in the hands of the trespassers or the non-public. And here, if we make a little historical reference, unfortunately, we have a very bad experience. We can remember that during the days of PASOK, on Mr Laliotis - my hair was black - I may not have had a beard - the National Register began, which even in the days of yours has not been completed, as has the TIADE. A five-year ago an article written in "ESKITRA" said that total public assets were 75,000 titles, some of which, as I had mentioned several times, were even beaches, even rocky islands, and even forests. Of these, there was clear evidence of how much it is and where it is only for the 16,500 thousand. So you're on a very good road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u12	Mr. Screkas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u13	How will the debate be organised, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u14	The rapporteurs of the parties will first speak and then some colleagues have called for the floor. How else can it be organized?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u15	Mr President, on a point of order. Won't colleagues be given the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u16	We did.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u17	You haven't opened the system, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u18	They've asked and signed up. Is that your problem, Mr. Screka? You want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u19	Yeah, it's a problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u20	We have said that the Members who have asked for the floor will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u21	Mr President, may I have a point of order?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u22	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u23	I would ask that the system should be opened so that colleagues can put their card and that the New Democracy colleagues and those who are interested in the other parties are also placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u24	We said that, Mr. Screka. Anything else you want to say?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u25	Of course, I want to be placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u26	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, on the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of the Environment and Energy of the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Industry and Energy of the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on Cooperation in the Renewable Sources and Energy Efficiency, we have no objection and agree. I would like to say that at this stage such agreements are mutually beneficial to both countries. I would like to remind you that in the period 2013-2014 by the then government of the New Democracy, supported by PASOK, this was an act. We had moved forward in cooperation with the Azerbaijani government. I should like to take note here of the agreement on the construction of a TAP pipeline which will carry gas from our country to Italy and the rest of Europe. I should also like to point out the then attempt at privatising 66% of DESCA, which is a gas manager in our country, where an Azeri company, 'SOCAR', had become a majority by offering a price of EUR 400 million and ensuring an investment programme of EUR 2.5 billion. This, unfortunately, after the unfortunate manipulations of the present SYRIZANEL government, has been blocked. Unfortunately, this competition has been cancelled. We are now learning that, under the pressure of the institutions, the present government and the Minister responsible intend to re-publish 66% of this company, in fact doing exactly the opposite of what they said in election and during the first two years of their governance. What I would like to point out, however, ladies and gentlemen, is a few comments on the Government's amendment on forest maps. In fact, suspension and completion, ratification of forest maps is a project of national importance. It is a project that could significantly help the country's development perspective. The fact is that there have been flaws in the past decades. But every time a government, and in particular the New Democracy government, tried to speed up this thing, there have always been voices and there have always been opposition parties' practices - which today are collapsing - which have been fighting this attempt to modernise the state so that the citizen can stop being hostage and give definitive solutions to these problems. Today comes the government and the Minister responsible, a few days before the end of the deadline which they - the current government - have set against citizens to bring an amendment of bread which, unfortunately, only solves very few problems. Unfortunately, only a very small part of these citizens, farmers, farmers and many others, who have today seen their properties characterised forests when the SYRIZA - ANEL government posted forest maps, few of them can see in this amendment that their problem is solved. Unfortunately, for most people, nothing is said today. In fact, the Minister responsible in the committee debated about ten or fifteen times, if I remember correctly, mentioned the phrases 'we will legislate' and 'we will bring legislative provisions to resolve the problem'. Let me remind you that the deadline is over. The Government therefore comes and extends by thirty or forty-five days the deadline for submitting objections, abolishes the obligation to send a digital copy of the posted forest map to OPEKEPE and to its Regional Department of Public Property, but that does not substantially solve the problem. In other words, a malicious citizen can get a posted forest map and testify to the OPECE and object to why subsidies are given to areas that appear to be forested on the posted map. So he doesn't give solutions, he's holding the Greeks back. As far as reservoirs are concerned, that is to say, land before 1975, which in the aerial photographs of 1945 appears to be agricultural and which, by mistake of the administration, have been designated or included in the reservoirs after fires, a solution is proposed where it is essentially what is applicable and has not been implemented for decades. So, what do you think? You say that in the end, the Opposition Committees can decide on objections to forest or non-performing land included in areas that are declared reservoirs. And what do these committees do next? These Opposition Committees are doing what they are doing to send back to the administration, to the forests and to the forests to apply Article 44 of the Law. 998/1979 to withdraw or re-examine the use of land as forest or not. So how will the forests that are currently having this whole amount of forest map training eventually do that? How will the administration do this when he hasn't done it for so many years? This article has been in force since 1979 and has not been applied and yet rural areas are caught in the middle of reservoirs. You are not giving solutions and we cannot agree with that. In the preparation of forest maps, account shall also be taken of the reafforestations carried out under agricultural legislation in the process of printing the forest map. In this, which covers a small part of the problems, we will partially agree. But, Minister, we cannot agree to this amendment, which is a hasty amendment and does not solve the problem as a whole. You mentioned it yourself in your location. Unfortunately, time is running, you do not give solutions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u28	Time's up, Mr. Screka, meanwhile. The fact is, it's running time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u29	I shall conclude, Mr President. You are not bringing legislation on the other hand, but you are asking for us to agree. We have tabled an amendment today. We're asking you to see her. You have whispered in committee that we are talking about or trying to cover trespassers. I inform you that the amendments we have tabled do not concern people who have no titles, but we are talking about citizens who have the strong titles and I would ask you to see them and discuss them and, if you wish, to make them acceptable, in order to really solve the problems that today face thousands of Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u31	Mr President, may I have the floor for a legislative improvement?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u32	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u33	I would like to make a legislative improvement so that colleagues can take it into account. Apart from a legislative improvement that we have made within the committee on time, we will be tabling another one, which says that the extension paragraph applies from 22 March, so that there is no gap until publication, because there is one possibility of ending some deadlines tomorrow. This is because there was simply no earlier plenary session. We had come to the committee a week earlier, but in order to avoid any legislative issue, we have power since 22 March. I'm tabling it for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u34	Mr. Maniatou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u35	Mr President, I will need a distinct time to ratify the agreement and another time for the amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the climax of the self-pity of a government, which asks us to ratify an international agreement from the Minister responsible, which is in Brussels, in order to call on the troika to come back and agree with the Greek Government what they will do for the future of the energy sector, particularly PPC. Today's meeting in this Chamber shows how a government on the last limits of dignity can "self-determination", work for itself, "travel" itself. The Minister responsible, a member of a government that took power in January 2015 with a promise, that he would toss the memorandum with an article and a law, the ministers who signed the third memorandum and who are now negotiating the fourth memorandum, begging, begging the Troika to return to Athens! This is the Greek Government's dignity today. Of course, it is of great interest that within this climate of the incredible "upgrade" of the moral advantage of the "first time left" we also have the Golden Boys of the same Ministry to the IPTO and the IPTO to give 20,000 euros of wages to themselves and 300,000 single. And that's an upgrade of the moral advantage...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u36	Mr. Maniatis, in what distinct time of your speech do you classify these reports?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u37	Mr President, I have only spent two minutes. I imagine I have the five minutes you have given me and another five minutes for the amendment. So I come to the point that the Greek Government and the national economy are currently mainly concerned with. PPC's falling apart. It is ironic that we should be invited to speak here in the national Parliament about a memorandum of cooperation on renewable energy between Greece and Azerbaijan, signed in 2007 and we are now coming to ratify it. What concerns the Greek people is that PPC is falling apart, the national economy is at risk and those responsible for others are curbing because they are obsessive, ideoleptic and they are following turbulent moves. PPC's market value was EUR 2.5 billion in autumn 2014. How old is it today? Today is 600 million. Citizens' debts to PPC were 1.5 billion euros. How much is today in total, including those regulated? It's just under 3 billion. How many downgrades have PPC’s share suffered over the past few months? Four, colleagues of SYRIZA! Four hens have suffered the gold hens, which you say you care about it, at the same time as you let it collapse and sign, all of your ministers sign, that the remaining 17% of the GOI will also be privatized. Do you know where everyone is now? That you are trying to convince yourself that what Mr. Tsipras signed in Memorandum 3-Tsipras, that is, PPC will shrink to 50% of its current capacity in exchange for zero euros, but with all the loans it has received, with all the employees who pay, with all the obligations it has today, is a philosophical policy. Well, this is a ridicule and the approach of a so-called left-wing government and the intelligence of the Greek people! We have the fatal Prime Minister, who, by his personal responsibility, leads the country to the barracks and, above all, because he mocks the world, saying that he defends the sacrosanct and loyal public services, public enterprises. PPC's falling apart. The biggest operation in the country! Workers are hitting the alarm by saying that in June the company would probably not have any liquidity for its wages. The administration, the commander, the government appointed renounces the government, saying that countries collapse not only from banks, but also from energy, that is, possibly from PPC. We now come to the second part, to the forest amendment. We now have the culmination of a situation that one is unable to characterize. In 2014 you voted against a law, n.4280, which you now reinstate. Mr Chironis wanted to pass his own process and the amendment you tabled to us, Minister, what do you say? I'll read about the Minutes because everything has to be registered. Paragraph 1 of the amendment repeals paragraph C of Article 153 of Law No.4389 of 2016 of the Government of SYRIZA - ANEL. Paragraph 2 repeals paragraph b of Article 153 of the Law of 2016. Paragraph 3 of the Amendment repeals paragraph e of Article 153 of the Act of 2016. Paragraph 4 repeals paragraph f of the Law of 2016. Paragraph 5 of the Amendment repeals paragraph g of Article 153 of the Act of 2016. Paragraph 6 of the Amendment repeals paragraph (d) of Article 153 of the Act of 2016 and paragraph 7 of the Amendment repeals Article 153(l)(i) of L.4389 of 2016. You are not voting and you are simply voting, you are calling on the Members of the government to work for themselves. This is what you invite them to do when you invited them in 2016 to vote in favour of the law that you are now coming to undo. Does this amendment mean anything else, beyond the self-introduction of the government itself? The self-pity? He says. Just one. Evaporately, one step ahead of the hundreds needed. He's giving an extension. Obviously, if an extension is given, the two thousand farmers who see their fields in danger will fall into the heads of all the parliamentarians throughout the province. So it's the only thing you're doing. What don't you do? You do not solve the issue with the OPEKEPE grants and the digital database, which as a layer had to fall on the digital system of forest maps. There is no solution to the question of not obliging the farmer to pay a special sustainability study to a specialist scientist who will then assess whether this is viable. The problem of buying out against a symbolic price for the fields that were once in 1945 possible forest land is not solved, but for many decades they have been subsidised by the European Union and the Greek State. There is no solution to the fact that the state's decisions have become city plans and these city plans have not been put on the forest map to exclude them. The problem with the parcels and legs of reafforestation and distribution is not solved. Fellows, do you know that in the 1930s the Greek State gave fields to the landowners who came as refugees and today, with the uprooted forest maps, these fields are considered forest and the universe is crazy? Are you asking these people to go to a scholar to make a topographic chart and, of course, without a price, to bring it to you? Why do you put them in such trouble? So because I am ending with this, we are sure that the current government will bear another amendment, which will amend today's amendment, which is why we too are voting against an incomplete piece of legislation, which only solves the hundreds of problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u38	Mr. Karathanasopoulos has the floor. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. The Communist Party of Greece voted against the ratification of the memorandum of understanding between the Greek Government and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on cooperation in the field of renewable sources and energy efficiency. It is voting against this memorandum, because it is precisely a memorandum, which is part of the European Union's energy policy and market liberalisation. It is this monumental continuation of the policy of the New Democracy and PASOK, which is closely followed by the Government of SYRIZA - ANEL, and today some here, and by this Step, were starting to tear their clothes apart for PPC and its course, when it is evident that PPC was privatised, when it is evident that PPC operates on private economic criteria, increasing the current in popular households, when it is evident that PPC itself and on their governments and on the day it released their labour relations, overturned the labour regimes, allowed contractors to enter its functions. It is precisely in this context that this memorandum, which essentially reflects the policy of liberation and privatisation in the energy sector, with important problems that it brings to energy security issues, to the issues of networks and their protection, modernisation and development, to the issues of the energy mix, to the import of incoming fuels, to workers themselves with overturning labour relations and intensification, and, of course, to the people's households, who pay expensive energy. Already in the last decade electricity in our country has increased by 157%, keeping the sceptres at European Union level, resulting in a 30% of the people's households living under the energy poverty regime. Of course, with the European Union's policy, the name of the use of renewable energy sources has also been made to penetrate private business groups in the sector, so that we pay a very expensive electricity. In this respect, therefore, as a JRC, we are voting against this memorandum. Secondly, in relation to the amendment. Forests - and this is the policy as a whole of the capitalist system - are a profitable field of action and profitability of business groups. It is no accident yesterday, which was World Forest Day, the various announcements that came out and the various studies that have taken place, on the occasion of World Forest Day, have confirmed that every year thirty million acres of forest are destroyed from the eagle effort made by capitalist groups, business groups. In this respect, therefore, the image itself, i.e. the image of forest destruction for the benefit of business activity and capitalist profitability, is also presented in our country. SYRIZA - ANEL Government has maintained the forest-cloud legal framework of the governments of New Democracy and PASOK, the previous governments, a legal framework which facilitates land-use change, land concentration in increasingly few hands and trade. On the basis of this legal framework and status, the specific forest maps, which essentially reflect forestic policy and form part of a logic of facilitating business activity in forests and the use of forests by large capital, have been formulated. Even any property problems these forest maps will be solved at the expense of the small ownership of farmers. Moreover, overall, the whole procedure for determining objections to forest land, which are agricultural land and even land, is an extremely expensive process, which makes it difficult for small and medium-sized farmers to carry out this whole bureaucratic process. From this point of view, the amendment, which comes, deals with a number of issues of a procedural nature and is simply addressing the extension of time during which one may object with regard to forest maps. It does not, however, solve the important problems they have created, in respect of areas cultivated by small and medium-sized farmers. From this point of view, because we also have a question mark, Mr Minister, we would like to ask you something about paragraph 4 of this amendment, so that we can see that there are certain procedures that we need to prevent. That is why the amendment comes because it expires tomorrow. However, with paragraph 4, we believe that a regime is being formed, which will shape the conditions for declassifying certain reservoirs, caused by the major fires in 2007. Just because the 2007 rings were also the steam engine to change the use of land and to make business activities very important and characterised, we say that this paragraph 4 must withdraw it and come along with the other issues, which you will bring to the bill, which, as you said in the committee, are aspects, such as grassland and a number of other issues. That is why we are asking the Government to withdraw paragraph 4 of this amendment today and to come to give their opinion on this paragraph and the bodies: forestryists and others who can say what they think about this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u40	Thank you. Mr. Lazarides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. For the ratification of the contract, I will not be placed, because we are positive. The Independent Greeks have already been placed by the committee. I would like to talk about the ministerial amendment on forest maps. As I said in committee, the situation outside the countryside, as far as forest maps are concerned, is not described. The world is in complete upset. I had taken it to you, Minister, already from the committee. Because the drafting of these forest maps has started wrong since 2014. Of course, the problem with what is forest and what is agricultural is a problem that has been starting for decades. Here I would like to say that, if you deal with and read all the legal framework, as regards the classification or description of forest land, it is a legal framework with total ambiguity and plurality, which enables some officials from forests to abuse their rights, so that we see the phenomenon of refreshing or forest land being declared agricultural land. These lands were never forested, but abusively, because some had the right, they were described as such. Look what we mean when we talk about pluralism, that is, the size of this situation, we have within this whole legal framework, legal conditions that do not exist in any civilised country in the world. I will give you an example. "Forested field": You don't meet him anywhere. It's something inconceivable. Or a field will be a forest. What does that mean? I say to you this: in Larissa, if a farmer leaves a field for any reason, whether he is sick or, in any case, has not been involved for five years, he will be filled with bushes. So what do we got? On the Larissa grounds we have a 'forested field'. We're talking about absolute madness. Now Greek citizens are now being called upon to deal with it through this drafting of the maps. Another phenomenon because of which property is at risk is that employees did not recognize acts that have been done in the past and have followed all legal procedures in order to safeguard property. I am referring to the areas, the exchanges that I have mentioned before. We're talking about decisions of the '29 Simplification Committees. We are talking about protocols that were drawn up in 1932, acts that were normally translated into mortgages. These areas were given to the refugees. It was the exchanges, you know. I'm a refugee too. We left our properties there, in Pontto or in Asia Minor, at any rate, from where each refugee came from, and we came here in order to give corresponding areas. If the public comes and questions these lands that were given as fields, this means that the Greek public has deceived these people. We are talking about heavy expressions that come out of facts and actions. That is why we should not underestimate old property. An appropriate problem is also faced with old property. We have this phenomenon in the Peloponnese, as well as in regions of Macedonia, because we have many refugees, but we also have many old ones. In fact, in Halkidiki, I was recently on a television show with the President of the Metagrin Agricultural Cooperative, who said something, which I looked to verify, and I was really surprised. Indeed, man did not exaggerate. He told me this because there was a reference to the 1945 aerial photographs, i.e. the 1945 aerial photographs are used, in order to confirm the status of a parcel, part of a land, to say so. In the '45 aerial photographs, to see their accuracy, the village of Metagitsi doesn't seem. It is a village that is pre-existing. So, what's going to happen? Will anyone question this village? Not to mention city plans which do not appear in the forest maps. To understand the size, I have here a table based on the forest maps, according to which Galatsi is 79.98% reservoir. 80% of France, ladies and gentlemen, is resurrected. Now imagine how many people will be subjected to the suffering of gathering documents, paying the sums to be paid to testify to their objections. I see my time is running out. Because of this situation, ladies and gentlemen, it has become possible to cultivate 20% of the total surface of the country. Only 20% is considered cultivable. I repeat, in order not to mislead what I am saying: for all the things I describe, this government is not responsible for. I said it at the beginning of my speech. It's mistakes and ambiguities that come from the past. However, this government has the opportunity to solve all these problems, so that farmers and citizens can finally find their peace and security. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] As I said before, 20% of Greece's total surface area is considered cultivable. In the next country, i.e. in order, is 40.5% or 41%, which is Italy. I mean, this is where we narrowed down the growing surface. To avoid further misuse of time, we had tabled an amendment calling for the deadline for submitting objections to be doubled to twenty days. The Minister with this amendment took it to a hundred and a half. In any case, it is a positive development and we welcome it. What we have also asked for is the withdrawal from the administration of all reafforestation operations relating to agricultural land without any expenses and objections from the owners concerned, because this was the case: When an area was burned in a prefecture of the country, this area was declared to be resurrected and the entire area was declared, because the prefect was assigned to some officials from the forests to describe the area, which would be declared resurrectable. They were pulling a line on a map of 1:20,000 - with no accuracy on this map - and there was a description of what extent it was burned. They were declared, for example, five thousand acres of afforestation, of which the three thousand acres were a forest area - and the forest area was rightly declared to be resurrected and the forest area must be protected - but two thousand acres were declared, which were a rural area, which had the misfortune to adjacent to the forest area. All these farmers were therefore subjected to the suffering to prove that this was always rural, that this area was theirs, because, you know, the 'forest' and'reserve' was always in the public. ‘Public, forest, reservoir’.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u42	Mr Lazarides, you yourself said that time was over.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u43	I will end in less than a minute, Mr President. You know, there were administrative miscarriage protocols, etc. and all the expenses was borne by the private person even if it was entitled to the courts, because this is the case. In other words, the decision also stated that the costs were offset. Plus, the burden of proof was brought by the citizen. I would like to close by saying this: Minister, the areas which are part of the OPEKEPE support system are regarded as agricultural areas, even existing in 1975. And that is something we need to see, Minister. I hope that soon a bill will come, with which we will be able to see to a greater extent this phenomenon and resolve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u44	Mr. Marios Georgiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. Good evening, too. Unfortunately, Minister, you are going to do a good thing in the process, bringing the amendment to the committee and not last minute in the plenary, but bringing it to 14.10' and 14.30' in the committee, we do not have time to discuss anything, we have to look back and come here to make a simple whole plenary debate. The matter of forest maps is very important and could be a draft law incomplete, with committees, bodies and plenary. But we are suddenly putting it on the table - apologising for the expression - in a sanction, for which we have been so positive, but we must look back and come and analyse the reasons for this. What we regret to see, unfortunately, from the whole process is an attempt to save our vote: let us go through it now and then see when, although we will bring in a draft law. With regard to the ratification of the memorandum of understanding with Azerbaijan, as I have said before, we have no objections, but on the issues relating to the amendment - in many parts of it - over and above the part that has to do with the extension, which is very positive - we do not discuss this - and we welcome it, there are many points which need discussion and study. Under no circumstances is the usefulness of the forest maps - and I repeat this - in order to protect public and forestry property, which is the property of all the Greek people. The drawing up of forest maps, which has been forty years, obviously, can be an important project, which will in turn contribute to the development process of our country. Their post, however, has caused too many problems of unreliability and injustice. A controversial opposition process is being chosen, at high cost, in a time of crisis and all because the political world has not done its duty properly so far. Thus, we have the forest maps for which the government has ordered that hundreds of areas - resident, municipal or rural - be posted as forests. The same has happened with entire hotels, with whole town plans, even with the monastic property of the island of Apocalypse - and I am referring to Patmos - which they regard as forest. With such truly challenging and embarrassing situations, how do you think the ordinary citizen can trust the government? I answer you because the answer is rhetorical. It can't be! That is what all those who are inspired by this procedure have done. In addition, we have citizens who denounce that while in the past they have done, for example, legalising arbitrary by paying high amounts, their property still appears forest. The truth is that - we understand - it goes on to create a new collector's file full of "harps" - resurrects from the SYRIZA Government - to put a deep hand in the pocket and pay not only the special objection fee for posting, but the identification of the property - we hear that they need GPS - the advice, the technical consultant to enforce the objection, the topography, the photo-interpretation report and legal advice. All of this, if we make rough calculations, it can cost EUR 400 for a citizen, not to say where this is going to be in the case of multiple property. Two more simple examples of curiosity, with which the government faces this serious problem, as well as other issues that torture the people: Firstly, the multitude of replacements - also mentioned by colleagues - of the repeal of Article 153 of Law No4389/2016, which you voted on last May, at this time shows that you are legislating on the leg. Secondly, the contradiction between two successive ministerial decisions, which are, in fact, signed by the same Minister - and I am referring to Mr Tsironi - regarding the recognition of ownership. I am referring to characteristics in ministerial decision No 136255/683, which states that usage is not a title - and this is on 22-3-2016 - and in ministerial decision No 146776/2459, on 3-11-2016, which states that usage provides ground. But we're not done here. Another retrospective punishment awaits the owners, since the prevailing forest maps, along with the suspension, will also be notified to the Greek Agency for Payments to Community Aid, OPEKEPE, in order to exclude areas for which objections will be rejected. It is therefore visible that the European Union should come and ask farmers to return millions of euros, which may have been paid in cases where it is shown that forest land has been served as agricultural area with rather exclusive responsibility, of course, of the state. Ladies and gentlemen, we are absolutely certain that ratification of the memorandum of cooperation with Azerbaijan in the field of renewable energy and energy efficiency will, in fact, benefit the Greek economy. But we strongly react to the way and the way in which you are bringing the forest map amendment, a very important issue for the Greek state and the owners of these parts, I could say, of these lands, in order to vote and not to oppose it. Although we are in the first position and disagree, as I said, with the way in which the parliamentary work is not respected - because we should also have debated it and should have the time and the opportunity at a second meeting in the committee to make the necessary amendments to the amendment that has been introduced - you are forcing us to vote in favour of the whole bill, despite the fact that we are not in agreement with this amendment as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, too. Mr. Amyras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the ratification of our country's international agreement with Azerbaijan on energy issues, especially renewable energy. But how awkward is, how disturbing is it at the same time to think about whether there is a future for PPC or not? This is not because someone wants to mislead her, but because we hear the words of the person responsible for the higher hierarchy, the president and chief executive of the company, who - I remind you - said two months ago that countries do not go bankrupt on the main road, but can go bankrupt in and out of the bankruptcy of a large public undertaking, of course speaking of PPC. Then he had referred to us and reminded us of that thriller that we had seen on two scenes, the first in the summer of 2010 and the second in the summer of 2015, when we were trembling the pamphlet of all of us, if only one municipality declared bankruptcy and lured the whole country - that is, it is not considered a credit event - and then we would run and we would not get there. Not that he's stopped running, not that we've arrived somewhere. But this was said to us by PPC President and CEO two months ago. And yesterday he told us again that PPC is falling apart. He won't even have to pay! I would remind you that within April a large bond loan of PPC expires. I asked the President during the debate in the PPC committee, what he will do with the money, and if he has collected it, and I have to tell you that I did not get a very comprehensive answer. The president of PPC is bells and bells for the pitiful situation in which this operation has arrived. And it is time for Mr Panayotakis himself to apologise and the ministers of the government. Also, you must at some point open your papers and tell us what you will finally agree with the lenders, with the troika, or - if you want to say it refined - with the institutions for the future of the business. Ladies and gentlemen, 'I do not pay', 'I do not pay' cost. PPC's insurmountables are EUR 1.7 billion. Who's charging these? How many of these can finally reach the funds of the company so that it does not run the risk of bankruptcy and, in particular, naughty and along with PPC and the whole of the country? Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the international agreement on Greece - Azerbaijan, of course, we agree. However, let us see the amendment on forest maps: it is certainly essential that they be completed and posted, but through a more substantiated and more serious procedure. First of all, I fully disagree - and I told you in committee too - that you have brought an amendment to such a serious issue, the forest maps, which concern not only the Greek Parliament but also many people, who see their property as forest or non- forestry. There should be a different documentation here. It's not, dear Mr. Lazaridis, just that Galatsi came out of the woods. It could have been two centuries ago or a century ago. Let's see. As Mr Georgiadis said, however, and 80% of the island of Patmos has been described as forest. Here's to laugh and cry at the same time. We must use the land registers of various services: the old communities, the topographical services of the counties, the agricultural services. You cannot put as a horizontal timeline the aerial photographs of 1945 before and after earth fire mixed! For example, my grandfather and my grandmother came from Izmir refugees - not, symbolically, I say, could be my grandfather and my grandmother - and they took a small field to live, which the state gave them with reforestation. In World War II, twenty years after their refugee in Greece and their reinforcement with a small field in order to be able to plant five things to live, they were abandoned and indeed forested. So this should not be taken into account? Should it not be taken into account that the state itself described some land as agricultural, cultivation and after their forced abandonment for a number of years during World War II should now be regarded as forest-based aerial photographies? Also, there is a insistence on your Government not to suggest a time point of reference that is complete and gives us the whole picture of the earth, not just one side. We say that where there are no aerial photographs, there should be the use of the findings and studies of the committees on geopsies and topographers. Many public administration services have done business. Why are we throwing this away? Ladies and gentlemen, we also do not agree with giving the committees the power to decide on the objections, as it is, in our view, in Article 117(3) of the Constitution, and in particular, helping to push these cases towards a judicial solution. Ask me May to eat a clover! The fact that the country has not acquired a register on time - nor has it yet acquired - that the country has not been able to regulate its own house - that is, what they are forest, what they are agricultural, what they are everything else - cannot be justified by tsame tsame procedures, wedge amendments of the last minute. We do not agree with the amendment and vote against it, despite the fact that it is incorporated into the international convention. The international convention, of course, will be voted for. And we invite you to see the matter of forest maps in a more official way. What does "official way" mean? Bring a draft law to the committees, to discuss it, to analyse it, to listen to bodies from there and beyond, where we must protect the forest. The forest is the added value of this country, despite the fact that it was always a rolling entrance for routing, trespassing, arbitrary and all these evils of our destiny, which we will only overcome if you decide to take it seriously and not with amendments to porn, wedges and patches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, too. Mrs Karakosta has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u49	I should also like to welcome those who are in this Chamber and really to ask my questions about those who have spoken before. I will not, of course, talk about the subject of the contract with Azerbaijan, because, as you know, we are positive, so there is no reason to develop this issue. It is very important, however, that we understand the great effort made by this government on the matter of forest maps, which, as you have all said, refers to all of Greece and different sites. In other words, it is mentioned and will probably solve problems of arbitrary settlements. It will solve the problems of farmers. It will solve problems of the city plans mentioned before. Consider that we live in a country that, as you rightly said, does not have a real estate register. In order to make land registers, however, there must be forest maps indicating public land and its use. At some point within these square kilometres that Greece has to be specifically, we need to know how many square kilometres it has every use, where we have settlements and where we don't have them. You know, we dared to post these given maps, which were not made on our own government, but on the previous governments with the administrations that exist today because we did not change either the masters or their logic. So we've found some material that's ready. Anyone who's scared doesn't go forward. And if we were also afraid that we would be wrong, that we would not be perfect, that we would not have the citizens in a constant process of dealing with whatever problem they have, come to testify to their objections, advise us where we have been wrong - not as government, our services, the forest services - you know where we would stay? To get permission from outside building to build a house, a stable, a warehouse, you have to have permission from the office. To get permission from the Forestry - now I answer those who are talking about citizens - hostages and notice where the citizens were hostages to date and where we are going to get them - he had to pay the documentary, deposit contracts, plans, etc. In the Forest Service, to wait for one to two years to become an autopsy, if it needs to be "laundered" and no employee - I say so as not to hurt all people - to wait for it to be published in two daily and local press newspapers, to pay for it, to wait for the decision to come out and then wait for the finality. A lifetime, that is - at the cost of course - to get a perfection for a particular farm. And today the state comes, at its own expense, and draws out maps and says: Here it will be a forest. And be careful, he said to the municipalities - but unfortunately, they did not respond, and here mayors must be responsible and understand what we are going to build - something that we tell them from this Step: Run. We're still giving you the time. Demarcate the settlements, not entirely, but put an expanded contour - and I am going to refer to this to date - and the settlements, which are mainly about the densities of the arbitrary population. With maps posted, that is, we are not just going to resolve the forest issue. Let's solve the land uses of all Greece. To build up on the edge of a settlement that is not completely demarcated, there was an autopsy again by the people of the town to tell the citizen whether they are or are not within the limit of the settlement. Another time-consuming process. I really am addressing those who do not want to make opposition - because some want to make opposition and say 'destructive government' and all these things - of this type, but mature people want us to deal with this issue and I really call on them to help. We, in the direction of aid, asked for the money requested by the previous law to be tabled for objections, reduced them to almost 50%. We have taken care of these issues which you mentioned about the resurrected areas, not to include - with this amendment - in the resurrected areas, that is, any areas which were burnt - the amendment says so - not to be included here. We also have the issue of the islands, which have huge grazing areas - so they are characterized - which were really pulling all this process that I told you before. We've also taken this piece out, and we've turned it back to the previous law, not that of 2014. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I really want you to understand - because my time, unfortunately, ends - this real daring we are doing. Unfortunately, we only have these forest maps ready, and all these years of the previous governments should be ready for all Greece. We will try as soon as possible to end the matter of forest maps. Because by finishing this, we are beginning to limit ourselves to the densities and the boundaries of the settlements, because Greece once has to determine the uses of land and each citizen, whether he wants to build his hut or the investor to do his great investment, he should know where he is going, where he is located, where he is delimited, and Greece once has to have an image mark about what the country is. I hope in the help of all of us on such serious issues and - most importantly - that I hope in the help of all the citizens, who really feel the value of these forest maps we are doing, despite the opposition we are doing. I say this with full knowledge, because yesterday, on Sunday, I was at a gathering of six hundred people in my area, Salamis, who have fully understood the value of these forest maps. It is of great importance, therefore, that all and all of us together spread the value of this project and, where it is wrong, that we be here to correct and where there is a right citizens' protest, to come and correct it. However, we must also preserve this country from the trespassers, because we tell farmers that we give them the margin, where little land has been extinguished, to come and buy it at a small price - and we reduce the price - but it is another thing which is rural land and another thing that is the trampling of the forest and of any public land. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-four students and students and five teachers from the 4th Electoral School of Lefkada and from the Elementary School of Lygia Lefkada. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u51	Mr President, we have also asked two Members for the floor for the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u52	In turn, everyone. Even the priest is in his turn!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I asked for the floor at this point in time, because I think that following the rapporteurs of the parties, it would be advisable to clarify a few issues. Obviously, after the parliamentary representatives and colleagues who will speak, then I will talk again and, if necessary, we will resolve other issues, because what we are giving more importance is a substantial dialogue and composition. Mr President, I do not know if five minutes of the year from the Rules of Procedure will be enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u54	Please, Minister, we have room today.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u55	I will start with the issues of the agreement to close the energy issue and then deal with forest maps. Because objections and objections were raised from the Opposition about what the government is doing today and what its ministers in Brussels are doing, it is important to make it clear to both Greek women and Greeks who are listening to us and to Parliament. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, we are negotiating too hard and too much. We are negotiating first of all, because some of us are introducing issues that affect our country. Above all, we negotiate, because our country at the end of 2014 had been bankrupt because of policies implemented by your own governments. Bad governments bankrupt the country, implementing policies against the citizens and enslaving it to loans that were both pointless and dissuasive. It is true that we need to negotiate, for the country to have a future, a future and a job, since you have destroyed it, as well as for the future of the children. Of course this must be done and it will be done by our own government. To say this frankly, you do not have, because you have not tabled any other proposal alternative to the negotiation that we are doing, except at times the krone of either your Vice-President or others to implement the IMF's views. If you have anything else that solves the problems of the country - I beg you to all parties, we are here and we submit it publicly - if you have to say anything better than what our government does, we can discuss it in here, because otherwise you are escaping the essence, you are not answering the Greek citizens, about what we should do. And I will be overcoming such expressions as self-immigration and self-immigration which humiliate those who denounce them in Parliament. And I'm honest with what I'm saying and we'll prove it. Because, ladies and gentlemen, we hold high the dignity of the country of Greeks and Greeks, which was not the case by the previous governments, which did not read the laws brought here to the Greek Parliament, first of all because they were not written by them themselves. And that has been proved. They have now arrived at false mouths, to report EUR 300,000 single when it has been shown that it is EUR 27 000. That's how far they've come to self-impression and self-impression. The ministers who signed the full privatisation of the country's energy system, the ministers who signed the sale of PPC's assets, are now pulling the finger. And they're liars who say that this government wants to sell 17% of IT. Because I here in plenary on Friday - and the Members who have said so know - have said that the government's position is that 17% should be in the Participation Fund and not be in the HICP and should not be sold out. It is, however, what they themselves have legislated and for which they have committed themselves to creditors, what we do not implement and blame us, in order to understand where the level of policy has come from today. And, of course, here we need to be clear about something even if we know it. There is a recent, a few minutes ago, announcement by PPC that it has no problem with cash and wage payments. Because some advocating the opposition parties were panicking the workers that they would not pay. No problem. Formally adopted by the Council on 12 December. Normally, the work is ensured by the Government and by this administration of PPC. The Memorandum that we are currently dominating is ratification of international relations and cooperation with the Azerbaijani Government in the field of energy in three areas, in the gas sector, in the renewable energy sector and in the energy efficiency sector. I think this marks the strategic choice of having common programmes, joint actions, exploiting energy potential and through a substantial action of international cooperation and upgrading our country's international role, and for the benefit of actions against climate change. With a specific environmental mark, then, all of this is done over a period of five years. So, at the same time, we ensure and secure the energy supply and, of course, we import our country as a central interlocutor on the European agenda, since we guarantee the entire supply of energy to Southeast Europe and the wider region, through the southern runway of natural gas, which includes 'TAP', 'IGB' in cooperation with Bulgaria and the floating terminal of liquefied natural gas in Alexandroupolis. As far as renewable energy is concerned, it is important to tell the House that our country today has reached 25% of renewable energy sources, 10% of which are hydroelectric. We are already safe with the 2020 target and we will put much more pioneering and much more, if you want, environmental target for 2030. At the same time we are operating for the benefit of the development of RES and in decentralised facilities for our non-associated regions such as the islands and we are introducing the debate and we have developed it for smart networks but also for an institutional framework that will allow local energy communities, energy cooperatives, to have, if you want, more tools for the benefit of the introduction of renewable energy sources into local and local energy networks. With regard to energy savings, which is the third part of ratification, we have to say that in our country, it is too limited, although at European level 40% of energy consumption and 40% of greenhouse gas emissions come from the building sector. Unfortunately, while the 3⁄4 of Europe's building stock have been built in times that were not predicted, we have a new agenda for energy savings in buildings. Of course, we are preparing 'EXCONOMY II', to have a new large number of subsidies in the private sector, while there is and will be 'Security' for the public sector. But it is worth a little to say what the different approach is, even in these issues. In 2011, the previous governments launched a project in which they incorporated fifty thousand housewives grossly. Of these, only had a budget for the fifteen thousand households. The remaining thirty - five thousand per cent thirty - five programmes were out of funding. Our government had to come in these conditions of recession to find resources to finance another eight and a half thousand households from their own programme that had left it to rest and left both the citizens and the professionals to rest. This was the meaning they had for "Security". This is where we have to say something new. Our program will not necessarily pass through the banks. It will have its own public-interest development agency, which will not oblige a loan from the bank and which will be able to use citizens' own resources and resources from the banking system if needed - that is the difference - with guaranteed funding and alternative funding scenarios for the citizen not locked up programmes in the banks. We must say here that we are very interested in "Security" and in the private and public sectors, because it will give a large part of the construction industry and small and new professionals a significant professional material. But I can only mention, Mr President, and forgive me - and today's communication to the New Democracy energy programme. Today, then, the Civic Opposition has found, today that the country is negotiating to maintain both the public and the social characteristics of energy in our country, the opportunity to announce that it fully agrees and announces as its own programme the requirements of lenders towards our country. It has done so today, which our ministers, yes, are in Brussels to gain as much as they can from PPC and from cheap energy for the citizen. What does that mean? What exactly is it that the New Democracy is announcing a programme which provides for the full privatisation of the energy sector and the sale that it has already planned for the Public Power Corporation? Because that's what he planned and that confirms today. We, at the same time, are obviously struggling to ensure the public interest and to reorganise and smooth transition to market liberalisation, because what we claim from creditors is that PPC and the energy sector of our country should have its own route, so that we can reach market conditions at 50% and not with a birming-out, because we now want creditors and possibly serve some interests, but not the national and social interests of our country. Today that we are negotiating these issues, he has come to put something that we have solved in our country again, that IPTO will remain 51% in public control and 66% in demanding a sale of IPTO. What exactly does this today’s announcement serve? Who? National social interests? When we have ensured that we keep public control on the networks, on social grounds, is coming to grant something that our country has won in the negotiation, that we reintroduce the question of the ICM? We have to say that the European Commission itself had made comments and had rejected the previous scenario, when they were taking EUR 400 million to pay our country EUR 750 million, because they predicted an increase in the cost of a network of 68%, which we are trying to keep the excise duty very hard, the gas price low to have 40% of the heating costs of the public and 40% of the energy costs of the company. These are the differences. Today, therefore, they are being announced against the interests of the citizens, against the interests of professional regulations by New Democracy for the complete privatisation of the energy system, when we have announced national energy planning with a view to 2030, when we have resolved the issues relating to hydrocarbons and have already put forward a contract, a very difficult contract - we have already initialled it - when we have started a debate on the energy stock exchange and when the Commission itself has taken an initiative on the energy islands to be an initiative of the European Commission and to have this debate held in Crete this year in June. We have conquered all this and some are trying to undermine it, to question it, and the government too, but more so, the benefit of our country. As far as forest maps are concerned, the debate is of great interest, first of all because it is on the next day of the International Forest Day, which was celebrated yesterday by all the institutions involved in forest issues, and I must inform you, because I was in the processes of Athens and Thessaloniki, that both the Department of Forestry and the Chamber of Agriculture and the Technical Chamber - with the Presidents of which I was also yesterday and today - and the unions of workers in the field and also the associations of scientists have cleared up and said to our Government that forest maps are a constitutional and scientific check and our country must implement the forest maps that had been laid down since 1976 and has not dared the previous political system to proceed with their implementation. To say something practical, because I respect the parliamentary procedure. He didn't get in at all - nothing at all today. On the contrary, one week before we introduced the amendments to the respective committee and to the Ministry's bill, we have, of course, made it clear that only the amendments that have already been tabled are in place, because the debate on legislative changes will take place in a separate legislative procedure, while respecting the legislative procedure. Now they're blaming us because we didn't bring it all, when we respect that we're talking about ratification today, we didn't bring it all. I said it myself in committee. Unless they do not participate in the committees, as the bills do not read! Unless they do not listen to what was said in the previous committee, which we have said and answered everything. All the rest, therefore, will be put into the normal legislative procedure and we will also have the opinion of the bodies. It will also take place in time, so that information about the citizen is available at least one month ago, as I have said, since the post was completed, so that the people also have the tools in their hands. But I think we need to make it clear that it is absolutely unscientific that I have heard from parties that do not know the law and the constitutional provisions and discuss things strange about the opposition committees - I have heard it from the previous speaker - when it has been clear that this procedure is absolutely constitutional, since it has been judged constitutional, because it has been in previous laws and has not entered ours. Obviously the opposition committees will also be aware of the citizens' objections. Obviously, they'll judge the character. It was predicted and checked perfectly constitutionally. But, in a little bit of the matter of forest maps and amendments, as of 13 January, the suspension has begun and we have dared, in fact, to introduce into the public debate areas which have so far not been discussed. It is true that the political change brought about by forest maps is in the essence of political change and not the one which the party debate often shows as a major incision, because it really changes the way in which our society operates, because it records, regularises, systemizes on a legitimate basis all the activities carried out on earth. It opens the way to the Land register, to the Forest, to the spatial planning, to investments that have so far had no clear road and framework. Isn't that what we've been talking about in Greece for so many years? Did we not sometimes be accused of criticising ourselves that we do not want investment? But if we don't clear up the uses, how will the investments proceed? Will they proceed with friends or pets on the back, as has been done so far for area designations? Oh, no. It will be done with rules away from the civil administration, and if you want away from the public administration, with standardised electronic tools that will be clear, because the previous civil administration had managed to post 1%, to have five and a half thousand objections and not to have evaluated them. But we are clearly saying that forest maps are not a problem. I say that to my colleagues too. They may raise problems and may bring us questions to which we must answer. I say we take this responsibility as a political system once seriously. The reason for the extension also has this starting point, to have time to solve the serious problems that arise because of the maladministration that exists in our country over so many years. So that's what we have to do. We must have courage to do this, because we must discuss with all the producers, with all the scientists and all the social areas and ask questions - we are doing this in Parliament too - in order to resolve them for everyone, and not on a case-by-case basis. This is the process which we, in fact, want to implement and which we are asking for. What's happened so far? So far we have clearly and clearly done this: firstly, we have reduced the rates of opposition, which the previous governments had, in fact, very high and had signed up to Members who are here today, in Parliament and were ministers. They had. We have tabled this CFD to the committee. We have reduced them to the lowest level of 80% and to the main level of 60% objections to five to ten acres, because we do not want any citizen to object. At the same time, we asked the municipalities, as they had been responsible since May 2016, for sending the town- settlement plans, rheumatism, implementation operations and settlements. Unfortunately, only 40% of the municipalities have been sent by now. Mr Maniotis accused us of failing to resolve the issue of city plans. So I ask him to read the circular 151/590/6/2017 which I have signed, which asks the Register to introduce the city plans itself, even though the OTAs did not send them. So we solved it. There is provision for that. But we are still asking for the rights of citizens to be safeguarded, the LAGs to do what the municipalities had to do, because this is how it will be safe for the area outside the project. So this was provided for by the law and we do not amend it, as we do not amend anything from the 2016 law, even though we were informed here by MPs and I will explain why. Why don't we ask all the political world for responsibility from the Ottas? Why are some mayors mocking their backs? Why is it in parties supported by the Opposition? I say, therefore, regardless of which party any mayor and any service, institutional and only institutional, without party criteria, self-government manages the place as a Authority closer to the citizen and we manage the institutional framework. So this procedure has to be done. At the same time, we called for a law, which was already in force in our country, on the fact that land lawfully cultivated before reafforestation must be excluded from it if it is surrounded by the wider polygon of reafforestation. And we have done so with a circular, with a ministerial decision, and we are asking the House today to give the supplementary legislative tools for this, for something that has already been put into the archivals. And here I think it is worth saying to Mr Skreka - who he probably did not understand - that the tool for the lifting of afforestation already exists in the forestry law, Mr. 998/79. But, Mr Skreka, all these years the administration you have been involved in has not implemented it. We, therefore, because citizens have been wronged, are now asking - and we have already done so on my own ministerial decision and now Parliament is coming to finalise this - to do so. In fact, we are keeping the prediction that the Charter should not be ratified - something Mr Lazaridis has asked for and we do so - and that the citizen should not end when there is another use before and after in the background of the Afforestation Act. So no cost to the citizen, Mr. Lazarides. We are fully in agreement today with this process. So, at the same time, we guarantee the citizens, Mr Screka, who had not done so far. It was not provided for in the law. We are doing so, we are introducing it, and there has been an older law since 1979 that predicted it and was not implemented. And we need time to do this until the Charter is ratified, so that it can also be a rule for the public administration, rather than a loose provision. It must be a rule until November 2017! And because there is, in fact, no staff, I inform you that we have already received care. With decentralised administrations in the country we have introduced a code to ASE for regions and have already gone eight months of lasting scientists, forest science, to support the points of support and points of opposition. And we will also receive another provision to strengthen the services by the end of 2017, to make this titanium project. Because we will support public administration and we will not fire civil servants, as you have done in previous years, because we have, in fact, found in decentralised forestry services a public administration which is not responsible for your own fault. So we are giving citizens the opportunity now to raise objections to the afforestation background, which goes to the opposition committee. But the reafforestation lift is in the office as due. So there are absolutely clear-cut roles and procedures. At the same time, we are asking for an extension of time for another forty-five days. You have asked for sixty, but we are going to do it for forty-five, so that we can make, if you wish, a composition, because that is what Parliament is doing. We also resolve the issues of reforestation and the afforestation of forests and forestry services, but also the objections to the background, which only the committee of objections can conclude. At the same time, we import the reafforestations that should have been introduced into the scientific material, while the only thing we amend from the 2016 law - despite the opposite of Mr Maniatis - is that the ratified map goes to the OPECE and to the public property, while the posted only goes for information. We added the phrase 'for information'. That's the change we've made. For all other deleted provisions reported by Step, if anyone sees the follow-up of the text, says that it is repealed and supplemented by the amendment, without changing the law of 2016. It's great to create impressions! I, however, do not want to go into this debate, because we are interested in the forest maps moving forward here. And if some have to make proposals to further improve the institutional framework, we would be happy to discuss them. We do not mind making the institutional framework better, which some have not dared so many years and making it better, but also to implement it. And I think that must be clear. But let us see what comes next, because there is a great debate. And let me say that for the New Democracy amendment and for what else it is proposed, I will keep my position to the end. It is true that we have already prepared - and I have told the committee that it is good to know them - and there will be a ministerial decision on the obvious mistakes. It will not be the responsibility of the citizen and will not pay a fee for the regions and points for which the service has been wrong or for the study. These will be cleared out who they are. For example, this is the transfer of limits between agricultural parcels. It is not the citizen's fault if one of the maps has not been 'done' on the other. Such are also problems arising from the time of photography and photo interpretation, which are absolutely clear, or as to whether an olive grove has been read as forest. Also, problems that have to do with forest crops. Forestry is other than the woods. It can be forest cultivation and as forest farming it should be recorded on the forest map with the benefits that this activity has. At the same time, what I think we should say is that we will indeed come to a normal legislative procedure to discuss how legally farmers will receive land that has been evacuated, either before 1975 or after 1975 and until 2007 provided for by the legislation, without prejudice to the subsidy procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u56	Minister, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u57	I shall conclude, Mr President. The request for use or redemption will be linked to the suspension of the sanction, but will have a timeline by the end of the year, to finish this too. Therefore, this process will not be called into question, without additional costs, but by reducing the costs for the farmer, because what we are interested in is the duplication of regularity and legality in the rural area as well. Because rural use by the Constitution has equivalent characteristics to forest, but not housing, trespassing for the villa or for the pool that can have been done and has to find us all opposite. These are the differences which we will discuss in a special legislative procedure, not the ratification of a convention, as I think it should be done. So nothing is going down, there are amendments. The town plans must help the municipalities. With regard to the agricultural study that Mr Maniotis accused us of importing as a burden on the citizens, I must remind him that he legislated on it. And I will put forward, if necessary, the FEK with the law that provides for it - we did not legislate - and we will also discuss this weight in the legislative process, which I said would follow in the next few weeks. At the same time we resolve all the issues relating to reafforestation. Finally, Mr Karathanasopoulos, I would like to say to you that the Committee on Refugees can look at the basis of the reafforestators - and we insist on this - so that the debate on the lifting of reafforestation can take place properly and formally and environmentally. Only alpha - alpha can go for reafforestation, that's all the Forest Service can do. And that's what the chambers and the scientists agree, because we talked about it with them. On the other hand, I have to say that the outcome of the procedure must be a process that will solve the problem, without everyone running for objections, but by resolving the individual issues such as resurrectors, obvious errors, the evacuations from the Forest Directorates. They don't want any objections. It only wants to say that the owner disagrees with the description of the use with regard to the aerial photographies that exist. Constitutionally it has been clear - no one disputes it - that the dates of the earlier reception are clear and are in 1945 - no scientific and political space is discussing it again. If there is no clear evidence since 1945 we go to 1960. Also, the latest printing we have in 2007 is the basis on which the entire evaluation takes place.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u58	All right, Minister, let us leave something to facilitate the parliamentary procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u59	We will remain in this debate. The aim is this great political change that we started to complete with everyone's cooperation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u60	Mr President, I would like to speak on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u61	Mr. Panayotarus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u62	Mr President, it is my turn to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u63	Mr. Carras, you'll get the floor later. Mr. Panayotarus has an urgent obligation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u64	I understand that, but I am not a priest, Mr President, as you called me before.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u65	You.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u66	Because you said "if you are and you are a priest, you will go with your artichoke".
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u67	Why did you take it personally?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u68	Mr President, I have repeatedly asked to speak on staff. The Minister referred five times to my name, and I obviously think you should give me the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u69	Okay, you won't tell me what my debt is.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u70	Mr President, it has been mentioned five times to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u71	You won't tell me!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u72	You have to give me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u73	First, sit down, as you are under obligation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u74	But it was mentioned in my name, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u75	First of all, if anyone who hears the name in here substantiates a personal matter, the meeting will never end. But tell me what you have to say for a minute. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u76	Mr President, thank you very much. I want the floor on staff because the Minister, speaking five times in my name, cheated the national Parliament. For example, if you give me the floor for a longer period, I would like to substantiate the speech on staff. I will testify for the minutes the signature of his Minister and Vice-President of his Government on May 2016, which says that 17% of PPC will be sold to a private investor. It was in May 2016 with signatures of Drasakis, Skourletis and Stathakis. Please put it in the Minutes, let's see who's lying. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And secondly, the Minister falsely deceived the national Parliament by saying that in the program "I Save House" only fifteen thousand families entered when he knows that there are over 40 thousand families who have joined and there are over four hundred million that we have guaranteed. So because the national Parliament is lying and deceiving, I would ask the Minister, on behalf of his staff, to substantiate the rest.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u77	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u78	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u79	I repeat this: in the timely question made by the Democratic Independence, I placed myself on Friday in front of Mr Maniotis and made it clear that the view of the leadership of the Ministry of Environment and Energy and the Government is that 17% should not be sold through the TIDE, but transferred to the Participation Fund. I am critical of that. I didn't say anything else, Mr. Maniot. I confirm that you were here, with me, until the end. Secondly, I reiterated today and said on Friday that the 'I I' programme clearly included fifty thousand and thirty-five beneficiaries. The point is how they were financed, Mr. Maniatis. With the resources that the programme had at that time, they joined about fifteen thousand. Why am I saying that? Because we have already introduced financial arrangements for other eight thousand beneficiaries, and I must say that there is too much pressure from the rest of us about twenty-four thousand beneficiaries to find money to get in too. So since we are in existence every day and we know it, I think you shouldn't question it, because they come to the Ministry and tell us "please find resources to fund a programme that others have announced, the previous ones, but they didn't have any money to finance us". However, I do not think there is any need for any further clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u80	I, Mr Maniotis, propose this: continue the course of the debate and then you will have the floor at some point.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u81	Mr President, let me add something. I haven't touched any colleague. I didn't say anything disgraceful, something insulting. It was absolutely objective to testify to the political viewpoint.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u82	We have come to an understanding, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u83	If anyone doesn't tolerate reality and truth, I'm sorry. It's probably your policy, not me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u84	Calm down, don't be in a hurry. I'll see you around.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u85	Please! Mr. Panayotarus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr President. Before entering the bill and the contested amendment to the forest maps, I would like to make a very small comment on the Minister, Mr Famello, who refuses to respond to the guaranteed constitutional right of all Members of Parliament, of parliamentary control, under the pretext of 'constitutional order'. Let us remind the Minister that we are the third political force, that we are elected for four consecutive times in the Greek Parliament, one in the European Parliament, and as all polls show, we are constantly going up, and it seems that your party and you yourself, in the forthcoming elections, whenever they occur, will actually be punished and perhaps you are not a MP in your region. This also applies to Mrs Papanatsiou, who, the day before yesterday, responded to a timely question by Mr Cassidy, instead of answering the questions, responded to various unrelated issues about how the Golden Dawn sees parliamentaryism, etc. Mr. Cassidyris has been elected four times, while Mrs. Papanatsiou is a "donor", he has not come down to the political track to see what crosses he will take.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u87	He's a congressman.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u88	She's an elected MP. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u89	The Golden Dawn also questions the Constitution, namely that the government may have MPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u90	I'm sorry. I wanted to speak to another government official. I'm coming to the bill. In terms of Azerbaijan, to which the bill refers - and no one is talking about Azerbaijan - all that matters is of interest, ladies and gentlemen, is the transfer of gas, which was achieved by the previous government with the agreement of the TAP pipeline, which you as SYRIZA were very much against, but when you became a government, you also agreed. And we are looking to find these compensatory benefits of the TAP pipeline, which we do not find anywhere. We were talking about the New Democracy and PASOK, but also about the thousands of jobs and we are waiting for parliamentary control - to which your various ministers do not respond - to tell us how many more people are working in the TAP pipeline, about the benefits that local societies can have, which are all in the rails, because they all disagree on this and on the exits that this pipeline may have. You see, this gas will come from Azerbaijan, it will arrive in Italy and Greece will have no benefit. In addition, the TAP, Azerbaijan, Turkish and other interests of the company 'SOCAR' will not pay transit fees. It is perhaps the only pipeline across Europe - and not only - that does not pay transit fees, has no exits and will have no benefit of any society, neither the Greek public nor the Greek tubes that make almost anything, nor the sub-sections of this pipeline. I would like to say about the PPC's, which has heard various classifications. First of all, I would like to remind the rapporteur, Mr PASOK, who was angered at the sale of 17%. Let's go a little earlier to see the scandals of PPC, when in the 1980s a commander of PPC named Mavrakis had embezzled 500,000,000 drachmas and then Prime Minister Andreas Papandreou said: "To make a present for himself, but not 500,000,000 drachmas." That has been your PPC policy for all these years. PPC, using the "salariosis" method, sold out and will continue to be sold, because our lenders want it to be 100% - and this 17% will not be left to the Greek State - as was the case with OTE, where suddenly a powerful company was found within a few years in the private sector with the sale of its shares and other methods. Let's remember Mr. Fotopoulou, where the former commander, Mr. Gervos, and his administration, gave tens of millions of euros to PPC trade unionists to take down the switches to make strikes to do anything else, but he gave them the money to go on holidays at all the lengths and back of the planet. For the forest maps that are a very important issue, Minister, since you say so well, why is the whole of Greece in the bars and have all the institutions in the world and have told you the dramatic mistakes you have made and are told to correct them? We believe that the whole story is about so-called opposition charges, yet another purely collective instrument in your despair, wherever you even reduce it, you will still receive it. We have insisted and heard you say that the '45 maps will not apply, but unfortunately they do. Why don't you go ahead with maps that will be ten to fifteen years later, since Greek society after a Second World War, after a occupation of five years and four consecutive wars and battles had been literally destroyed? Why don't you see the peculiarities of different regions, as in the case of Patmos? Other previous Members have told you. The main point is that the whole island is woodland, with the exception of perhaps one or two buildings and nothing else. Why don't you look at what's going on in Laconia, in Manny, where everyone says that that was the case with customs law, that there was a difference in trade with reason and why all this information is not taken seriously into account to see what's going on? In addition to the fee of objections, which may be reduced, but again in sloppy times, it will be a fee that the Greek people must pay together with all the rest, people arrive at the point, to find evidence and prove that they are not elephants, must go to the archives of the Ottoman state in Constantinople, because there was a land register on the Ottoman Empire and after liberation there was no evidence of what is going on in the various parts of our country. Take it back and correct the bad texts, without the so-called charges of objection - I repeat that this is a story - without an attempt to escape, as is done with inheritances. There we have hundreds of thousands of hereditaries from Greek citizens. Do not do the same in cases with various parcels, which in the end will be brought to the Greek State, and that will in turn give them to the Assurance Fund, to the lenders and to anyone else. Although you have said several figures - we could talk for hours even about 'I save by house' and other very serious issues - the essence is that this penalty, in fact, on forest maps, should help you, since you say that you want to move in this direction, because extension is not enough. It's not just objection fees. It's also the money they have to pay to various offices that will help them settle, because you see that they're not all in their villages, not everyone in their special hometowns. Imagine some Greek Americans, Greeks, Greek Australians who have a piece of land, how much money they have to pay. How much money the Athenians should pay for a piece of land in Kalamata, for a land in Messinia, Laconia, Arta, Epirus or elsewhere. To conclude, Mr President, with regard to the mistake at the outset about Mrs Ahtsoglu, because we had never heard her speak before, to see your members who do not even remember the names of the SYRIZA officials. The entire Minister had gone to a SYRIZA event -- in Heraklion I think it was -- and they didn't even know what his name was. Clearly, we have no requirement to know the hundreds of fifty three Members of SYRIZA, because most of you were unbelievable and unbelievers would be after a while with what you do to the detriment of the Greek people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u91	Mr. Carras has the floor. Come on, Mr. Carras, it's your turn.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u92	Finally, Mr President! I have said before in the Chamber that, at the end of the day, the Rules of Procedure, as it applies, do not know whether it is in line with the Constitution, because the Constitution gives Members the floor, while the Rules have introduced the concept of parties. But it is not at present, it will be discussed in an amendment to the Rules of Procedure. Before all, I would like to point out that the Minister comes a legislative improvement and says: 'the power of the above paragraph begins from 22-3-2017'. My question is this: Do you think that time-limits are extended by this arrangement, Minister? Because my conception is different. Where the validity of paragraph starts from 22-3-2017, performance or notifications previously made cannot be extended by this provision because it will bind the performance - notifications made from 22-3-2017. I therefore propose that this legislative improvement be changed and that you say that the deadlines ending until 22-3-2017 are extended for so many days, because the deadlines are running right now and, secondly, that you say that from now on it is a hundred and five days. Untie it like this. You will have a great problem with the courts in the future because there are provisions in the codes on deadlines for starting deadlines. It's not clear. I am trying to understand the thought, but if I were in a court and I supported an opponent or against the public, I would say that there is no deadline. Let's go later, then. What does the forest map amendment carry? The maliciousness of the Greek state since 1830 was the Treaty of Constantinople. Because the presumption of forests has not solved any government, and neither can your government, Minister, solve it. This must be resolved, because to say what is woods and what is not, we must also know what the property regime is. I would remind you of this: forest legislation has been codified with the previous NRP. It cost 2 million euros. The New Democracy government paid 1 million euros and the other millions paid for it by SYRIZA - ANEL. So why not look at this codification, what does it say and what does it propose and we legislate fragmentally? Do you know what the matter is in here? It's not the resurrecters. I will let the courts resolve it, whether it is constitutional or not, by means of committees or maps. And I'm not talking about the controversy committees, but about a meeting of officials, the master to suggest and all that. What I would like to say is that there will be a possible problem in the future, because reafforestation operations are only withdrawn for fault of things. Here you leave room for reconstructing and redesigning and you may also leave room for directions of other purposes. I want you to see it again. What I would like to think, however, is the most critical of forestry legislation - I am not talking about today's only amendment - is that we have never been able to have a specific definition of forest, forestry and grassland. I remind you of something. Article 3 of Law 998/79, on which the whole concept of forests is based, has been amended here - since 1979 - seven times. Sometimes we talk about forestry, sometimes we talk about biocoastal, when we talk about land area, when we talk about clusters. This, if it's not solved, will not solve the real estate register. A more specific issue that is crucial, which is also the country's development, is the vegetarian areas. My colleagues spoke before about the islands. I have to fill in this. There was a mistake in the previous legislation - I do not blame it on the government of the former - which changed and said that the non-treated grassland areas are distinguished by the presumption of ownership of the public. This has not been solved until now. And it's hard to solve if it's not done by law. What for? Each civil servant, who is called to describe or rule, will say: 'I will take the weight tomorrow morning and if I characterize an area of grassland, non-territorial or non-public, will they come after me?' [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Therefore, the issue is not in the forest register, it is too much. Since 1976, I have remembered Law 248, which has also had the subject of the Forest Registry Register. Today we distinguished them. We have done so in the civil courts, but in the administrative courts and there will be what, unfortunately, I have said before Ethiopia, will open up a new war, because it is not just the fees of objections, it is not only what is a forest and what is not. We might be talking about background photographs and mappings. The background is to deal with the property issue, because if this is not solved, there will never be a question of what is a forest, what is not it, because when we say something is a forest, we say it is a public one. To be able to say something that is forest and let it be private so that it can remain forested, can remain forested.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u93	It's not true.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u94	Don't react, I'm right. To be able to say that a forest area may also be private, but to maintain the character of the forest. As far as we're concerned about the presumption of public and public ownership, violations and evacuations and fires, we have it all in front of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u95	Mr. Dimitras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u96	Ladies and gentlemen, of course, I will only refer to the forest amendment. It will allow me, Mr Maniatis, whom I appreciate, to tell him that it is not right to use such words as'selling','selling', etc. There was nothing tragic about this procedure to use such expressions. I think that we can do our work more modestly and humbly as Members of Parliament. Mr Manatis, I would like to tell you that - you had passed from the Ministry - we received a list of forest maps at 1% of the region, while they had been paid and drawn up for most of the region. If we remained this way, we would have no problems now, nor would we have any amendments, nor would we have any extensions, nor would we have any idea of what has come to the surface. So what bad did the government do? He dared to bring a law, to amend to the previous and to post 36% of the land in terms of forest maps within a short time. What did we find before that? We found a chaos, which showed how the Greek state was operating up to now, and perhaps to some extent it still still continues to work. There were arbitrariness, arbitrary in forests - and the state tolerated this general lawlessness -, rosphetology, involvement in forestry services, where the content of forestry services, forest masters, was a declassification process, not forest protection. So what were we supposed to do? Should we stay like this or move on, solve the problems? And we know that for these problems - the fact that Galatsi still appeared on some old forest maps as forest and Glyfada and the square of Old Penteli likewise appears to be a forest - a way had to be found and the maps were to be posted and a process that de facto settlements now, de facto, have been formed, to find their place. We had to solve real problems as well. So the three categories of polygons have entered and are now being challenged in the S.H.E. I would like to ask the Commissioner if he is prepared to do so. But regions that are shaped - and I address all my fellow Members - have been solved by the law that we have passed. And you know we have a very difficult issue to deal with, that there are no economic interests to defend forests and the natural environment, because trees do not vote, while on the contrary there are either small or large interests - about 4.5% of the population - to trample forests against the environment. So will we count on these interests which exert political pressures and back, while we have a large inert mass of the Greek population that watches, likes, loves the forest, but does not take a position? And we see that news comes out when some protest when their plot that was next to the forest made three acres or when the field that was a acre did twenty acres. Of course, we have constitutional problems here. Article 24 of the Constitution protects the natural, cultural and forests. But if we hadn't dared we wouldn't have such problems. Who, then, defend the natural environment? Some ideologists or forestists, scientists and a part of society that has truly realised the great value of the forest. And now there are voices that say "stop the posting process, take back what has been posted". No, we're alimony if we do. We have to move on at any political cost. Let's leave something behind. We should be realistically dealing with all these problems that are created in people who, with their tolerance, have left them or urged them to be illegal, because they were exploited and framed with rushphetti. He framed them politically. And many times, of course, we had all the interests involved in them. [[Mr DIMITRIOS KRIMASTINOS]] Therefore, we must not step back, we must move on. In 2019, maps must have been posted all over the country, as we now have an obligation to do so, and we know that this will be a condition for the register to be completed. Without completing the register, we will not really have sustainable growth as we want it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, too. Parliamentary spokesman for the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr Theocharopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I have heard you a little while ago rejoice and speak in a way claiming that this process you are doing is correct legality. What process? Introduce the amendment to committees in an international convention to be ratified: "Following the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of the Environment and Energy of the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Industry and Energy of the Republic of Azerbaijan on Cooperation in the Renewable Sources and Energy Efficiency and other provisions". In renewables you have done absolutely nothing. In order to protect the environment you have done absolutely nothing. We are not talking about this as we should. What we are debating today is an amendment that you have tabled to the committees, a procedure completely outside the Rules of Procedure. And since you were a parliamentary representative before the Minister's position, you should not at least mention that this debate is being held in the right process, as you remember the debate that we had in order to change this way of discussion. We are therefore debating once again, apart from every procedure. That is a logic with which there can be no proper legalization. Now I'm actually coming to the point. One more sensible vote - I am voting in favour. Another government handshake. You brought something in 2016, it was voted, you now bring an amendment and you include it in a bill, which changes what you voted on. In fact, you do not dare mention it in the title of the amendment. You are talking about an amendment to Law 3889/2010, instead of talking about the actual abolition of the provisions that you brought into the law of 2016. Because that's the reality. Of course, in this process that you are going on, in which you abolish all the paragraphs of an article, as the rapporteur of the Democratic Independence told you a moment ago, you do not dare say "we are abolishing the entire article, because we have predicted wrongly in all the procedures". And in a short time you may bring in a new amendment to a new bill, out of the process, which we are voting on today. That's not a process. This Parliament cannot follow you. And the worst is that this is how we legislate in the wrong way. At the same time, you are, I would like to tell you, any conciliation procedure. Because in this article, in the bill article, the ratification, there would be consensus in here. I'm not talking about forest maps, I'm talking about the substance of the sanction. As far as I know, both the New Democracy and the Democratic Integration and the Potami - I do not know about the JRC - most of the forces would be positive in this process. We've told you, too. What are you doing? You are forcing every conciliation procedure, as you bring another article, an amendment, which you incorporate in the bill, which leads to the vote on this article. That is why we are telling you that you are in your way making every effort to reach agreement that may exist in the Greek Parliament. The House of your intra-government disagreements will certainly not be held hostage. And I'm not talking now between SYRIZA and ANEL. I am also speaking within your party, about the disagreements you have had about the specific handling of forest maps, and this alalum that you have caused because you cannot agree among you how the process should go ahead. We asked you a question on February 10, 2017. I will not repeat the questions now. You do not solve almost anything with this amendment. It was a clear question where we are asking for answers and how to deal with the problems that you have created. You have not answered the question and at the same time you do not resolve these issues. I talked about disagreements over the forest maps issue. And you referred, of course, to the question of evaluating your speech, where you said things. We cannot tolerate your government's disagreements on evaluation issues, negotiation issues. Today, Mr Skourletis, the second minister of this government, actually leaves the possibility of going to the negotiating process until September. With what money he won't tell us. How the country's obligations will be met doesn't tell us. At the same time, the Government representative, unlike the Minister for the Interior, says that the process will be completed in April. We are now talking about a alalum and the negotiation. At least, decide to say the same thing. Close the ministers of government in a room to decide to say, about the same thing as the Members of the government. Because the whole country pays it that way. And I heard you say that you were negotiating hard and keeping the country's dignity high. Is that what happened with the one century of the Demilitarization Fund? Is that how you understand when you're talking to Greek society? Is that what's going on with the tax-free? You said that the reduction of tax or pensions your government would not accept it in any way. And all that you've put on the table, like, of course. You have asked us - the Government of Opposition - whether we have another negotiating proposal. And we have answered you that if you do not accept our proposals, accept at least the proposals of the Parliament's Budget Office that had given you a specific negotiating framework as a proposal and told you that if it had been closed in time, within 2016, these new unacceptable measures would not be on the table. And every day that passes, one more measure is actually added. Why have you not understood from the mistakes of the past that as long as the time goes, the negotiating position of our country is worse, as it is with the back of the wall and at the end you come to the Grexit dilemma or new measures and you are actually choosing that procedure that is painful as you reach a solution which both are terriblely painful for the Greek society. So this cannot go on any longer. We have called on you to finally close the evaluation without any new unacceptable measures, to negotiate effectively. There's nothing going on in the country. Structural spending saving reforms are not progressing, an increase in revenue from real changes and sectors, so that you are over-taxing and that only this way is left for our country. We cannot go this way, we cannot go this way and, above all, you cannot come here by the representatives of the government and instead of answering the questions of Anti-Population, while you are two years in these chairs, basically all you do is oppose the opposition and go on with a logic that does not make the country out of sight. At last, be serious, so that we can get out of this dead end, as today with the forest maps and the big issues of the economy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u99	Thank you. Mr Georgadas, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, following on from any issues raised during the debate and in relation to the forest maps, I would like to bring to the public debate a subject that has arisen from the previous implementation of the law. It is an issue to which we must give a solution. And be clearer. In Kilkis in 2013 -- but not only in Kilkis, and in another six to seven municipalities around the country, forest maps were ratified. It's one of the first areas in the country that did this. At Kilkis' Polykastro, you know, the first real estate office operated in the country. In such a region, therefore, in the old Local Community of Polykastrostros and Picodos, which concerns an area of sixty-three thousand hectares, while the legal notifications and notifications provided for in the Act were made to the Forest and the Municipality, unfortunately, the citizens, the farmers - in principle, why the population in these areas is rural - did not receive that information on the consequences of the ratification of the forest maps and on the non-respectiveness of which they were entitled. And I am explaining this as follows: While today it has received a great deal of publicity from both the media and from the public speech that has been presented in this period - because it is a major issue - because it has been a very few areas, there has been no such approach to this issue from those who have had the opportunity to inform the world of these very serious issues. However, apart from the lack of information, there is something else that I think is understood by all of us. The farmer of Vafiohori - I am referring to a village of Kilkis - who would hear that a process is being carried out for the ratification of forest maps and knew that he has been cultivating its area for fifty years, having been granted that by the state to him, as a coaster who was his father, with an extremist and that he has received subsidies in the last fifteen years from OPEKEPE for this area, would consider this issue to be of no concern to him. Because it was not understood and understood. Here, and here we are dealing with and approaching the issue with greater knowledge adequacy, we often find it difficult to understand all the dimensions of this very serious issue. So this happened. In particular, in these two areas I mentioned in Kilkis, only one objection was raised by the municipality and no other objection was raised, and I believe that the legitimate interest in objecting is several hundred. And I think this is about both Pierre and Evros. A solution must somehow be found, Minister - and I raise this issue for colleagues' knowledge - and these maps must be given the opportunity to review these issues. I do not know how this will be done, but I have seen that with Article 20 of the 2010 Act there is a possibility with decentralised management's actions to exclude certain areas which were included in the forest maps. In addition, with regard to Law 9998/79, there could also be the possibility of exempting certain areas. In any case, it is one thing, Minister: it was too short a time - he is too small - for a decision in fact of the administration which makes the governor difficult without knowing exactly what the consequences are. While more generally the administration of any such act must require the prior hearing of the person concerned, in the sense of his specific and detailed information, this is not the case, but a more general information - this was provided for in the law. Here we are to correct what was wrongly legislated or what was seen by its implementation and implementation that it was not finally in response to what was the expectation of the legislator. I think this - because you said exactly that in the next period you will also re-orientate some other issues that have arisen - is one of the issues that have created a situation that is currently a dead end to them. They are in danger and have already started in the autumn to have a problem with OPEKEPE subsidies. Their goodwill arises from the fact that in these areas, the owner of an area that knows has a field has taken it and declared it in the Land register a year or two. The area of Polykastro is one of the first in the country in which the realisation took place. It is therefore in good faith that he has fulfilled all his obligations that he does not care about such a matter, and at the moment we are in the face of this dead end. My request is that you approach the issue in a way that is lawful but, at the same time, does not leave these people with a sense of injustice, because they are in an irresponsible position with all the other owners, who have now been given a wide-ranging information and, of course, a longer deadline for submitting their objections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, too. Mrs Arabatzi, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the amendment on forest maps and its impact on the areas used as production tools by farmers and farmers in our country, I would like this clarification and assurance: Is there any risk that, on the basis of the forest maps you have raised, I would say that the area of the IAC will be classified as forest land and that farmers and farmers will not get their subsidies? And, of course, I am referring not only to the first pillar grants, that is to say, the single payment, but also to those other aids that require that the eligible areas be used, namely pasture. An example of great is organic livestock and also programmes such as those of young farmers and what other development in the second pillar needs pasture to be activated to provide the necessary Community money. I do not ask you at random, Minister, because according to the data on the register, from what they see in publicity, it appears from 35% of the forest maps reported that some 1.5 million acres belonging to the OPECE appear as forests. Also, 1.1 million acres that had previously been used in agriculture appear as forests and go by saying. These are problems, Minister, which would be broken, but in December 2015, with L.4351 of the Ministry of Rural Development for grazing land, you have come and postponed for 2019, since 2017, the final grazing plans that would clear up forest land from pastures. You have lost your responsibility, that is, for the first time and lawful, the plentiful, woody and toothless areas of specific Greek geography, which, if you like, give the different advantage to Greek mountain farming, as pastures - which are pastures - and not forest land. This is an important national negotiation, which, from 1-1-2015, would have relieved our country of the axes of fines for a legislative vacuum which has unnecessarily affected our country and producers for years. But you postponed it, thrown it in the basket of unusables. Today, Minister, you should have multiplyed by imprinting them in the grazing plans and in 2019 we should negotiate even more, for the benefit of Greek agriculture and livestock farming. From December 2015 until today, it has not come out of the Ministry of Rural Development a decision to determine how the final grazing plans will be drawn up, which is the basis for future subsidies to the new CAP. Because if Greek pasture land is not legally increased, there will be a problem in the next dossier. Proof of what I am saying, in this case, public land in reafforestation, distribution and property, at an altitude of more than a hundred metres, is shown in accordance with these maps as grassland, subject to the provisions of forestry legislation, so that they leave the ownership of the Ministry of Rural Development, go to the Ministry of Agriculture, and so farmers, who have the right to legislate and thus to energise Community aid, are faced with a great problem. So, work together and speed up with the Ministry of Rural Development, Minister, because they are sharing the responsibilities and the result obtained, so that as soon as possible it will finally adopt the ministerial decision on the final grazing plans, so that it will be possible in parallel with your own actions on forest maps not to cause problems for the primary sector, which really has to deal with the policies being pursued. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Arabaji. The Parliamentary Representative of the New Republic, Mr Javarra, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u104	Mr President, thank you. Minister, you must indeed be the only one after the Prime Minister who continues to invest in this divisive idiom, in this divisive speech, which is why all he does is show, on behalf of your party and the government, a fantasy of completeness and self-sufficiency. Unfortunately for you, we are neither in January 2015 nor in September 2015. The times have changed, not to say, of course, that you have contributed to making all the Greek people so difficult. In this misfortune that the Greek people live in today, no old government is captured. It's your advice, it's your insufficiency, it's your permanent negotiation for nothing. Because you've taken to your shoulders national cases and made them a boom case. I cannot otherwise think that you are still from the Step of the House to New Democracy and say in this sense that it is not your fault, that you are going to the great avenue of glory, and we are the waste of history. But at last, at least by your ideological tradition, you must use this monumental expression once said by a glorified but unfortunately at the bad end of the Communist Party: "New conditions, new tasks." Unfortunately, you still think you're the people of history. You are the ones who have never ruled the place, and you have no involvement in the sufferings that are currently afflicting the people, even though you are pioneers and headmen in all the struggles that have only ensured for the trade unions or workers, but have nothing else to do with them today in depriving them of the greatest opportunities they should have to live decently, since everything has been voiced through claims that nothing else has to do but with greater consumer power for anyone. And that's not what Panagiotis Koddylis says. Since 1994, they have been written and, unfortunately, none of you left-wingers have taken care to learn from the words of an intellectual, who has indeed been a very great Greek. Now, you will allow me to tell you that one of the reasons I realise today is that they prevent you from being modern or at least up-to-date or at least harmonious to what is the big national problem today, is the fact that you are afflicted, divided by a very big one, by a huge, I would say, divisive one. You are obliged to rule this place by methods, ideas and faith you do not have. Why do you not believe in the free market, and yet you are obliged to negotiate, which is intended to ensure conditions of healthy competition in this place. But you have nothing to do with these things. How can you serve them? That is why you are constantly and relentlessly in an uninterrupted negotiation, which we are constantly losing, from which the people are always poorer and you, of course, are pleased to speak to the House for reasons of completeness and self-sufficiency. Hey, it can't go on with this thing! At some point you must understand, at any time, that you must also be useful. You must in these critical times open your soul to the truth and become responsible. So I will tell you two comments on what you have come today to tell us about correct legislation. Do you think, Minister, that what you are bringing here today and you call it the 'Creation of the Memorandum of Cooperation in the field of energy in Greece with Azerbaijan', had, according to the Constitution and the law, to come to the House for ratification? Oh, no. If you read the provision of Article 36(1) and (2) of the Constitution, you will see that these specific agreements that are not signed by the President of the Republic, because he internationally represents the country, but above all that have no regulation from which to give rise to a specific burden on the citizens of this country, do not require ratification by a formal law. So, where is this correct legal system and where is all this burden on the parliamentary work today based in procedures which could and could have ended outside Parliament? This 'outside Parliament', however, is inspiring you for other procedures, which should have started in the House, top procedures such as the Review of the Constitution. This is a process that you take and bring out of Parliament, but you dare not bring it into Parliament. Here, namely, where popular sovereignty is exercised, where there is a democracy, representative, here are the representatives of the people who will decide and begin this topical process of the Revision of the Constitution. But, beyond that, you are now bringing in a number of paragraphs which essentially amend a law that, as I rightly heard from Mr Maniotis, does nothing but change a law that you voted for, No.3689/2016 and which, of course, has not been born of any virginity. He amended Law 3889/2010, where things clearly defined a number of obligations for the administration, for the State and, at least, since you do not believe in the free market and you have this ideological mark of the state, he should today, with the amendments you bring in, have imposed on the state to protect the citizen and not to create a number of provisions on the basis of which each owner of any area, written or described in green, should go to pay fees, assign a mechanic on remuneration to represent him and draw up maps. Why should the citizen pay fees in the state? Because, as you know, the end has a difference from the tax. The end has the recompense in it. Is it possible, then, that in a left-wing government, which has a statistic perception, the citizen should be tolerated to pay fees to get what he is entitled to? And not only what the forestry authorities should have done, but what the forestry authorities should have done, because by Article 13 of Law 3889/2010 the forestry authorities should have during both the preparation of forest maps, but also during the suspension they should have checked on all possible cases of errors, omissions and errors, so that we do not have this phenomenon today. Of course, partly - because I do not want to blame you completely - you do this with resurrected areas. However, you must do so on all these occasions and establish a general reason for responsibility and initiative of the public administration so that no citizen in that country is wronged by the suspension and ratification of the maps. Because the great risk, Minister, is to create a legal extinction regime after the finalisation of the ratification of the maps, because, according to the law, there is a full presumption, full evidence of each judicial and administrative authority in the form of these areas, which have been recorded in a green contour or green deletion on the forest maps. In addition, there is another question, which you must put forth, because you must certainly cover it. Is the legal person and local authorities subject to the special fee?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u105	Please, Mr. Javarra, complete. Nearly nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u106	Are we close to nine minutes? I shall conclude in a minute, Mr President. There are no provisions on this. This is precisely where Law 2578/1998, which extends the privileges of the State, namely the exemption from contributions, paradoxes of all cases of legal aid, actions, appeals before every judicial authority and administrative authority, is concerned, but you have to say this here because there will be confusion.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u107	Finish, Mr. Javarra.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u108	I shall conclude, Mr President. Finally, I want to tell you this because I do indeed think you are one of the ministers you have both zealous and adequacy in matters. This particular work, which you have done today, is this initiative, namely, of bringing seven flagrant changes, of respect for a society that is rebellious today and that is the society of this region. Because when you post the maps in Attica, uh, then you'll run more, know why the pressures will be huge. Now we, the regional parliamentarians, are kind to you, but what we wanted is two things: the first is that you should have brought what you had already committed, that is, a more systematic legislative initiative within the framework of a bill, to cover all the issues, and the second, which I consider to be very important, is that there should be a single starting point for all of Greece for the deadlines that start to exercise objections to forest maps. And that's what you know why? Because some have been placed in a more disgraceful position compared to those who have not yet seen the posting of the maps.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u109	You're welcome, Mr. Javarra.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u110	I shall conclude, Mr President. And against them, Elijah, Messiah, Achaia, we are much worse, because until you decide, to specify, to clarify, to clarify with circulars and specific legislative initiatives, the deadline has already been lost in two thirds. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, too, but please keep the time, because we have to. The Rules are clear. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, twenty students and students and four educational attendants from the Makriyalou Pieria High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Xydakis, Parliamentary Representative of SYRIZA, has the floor. Please, Mr Xydakis, as far as possible respect for time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Mr President. The technical issues included in the amendment on forest maps I think that they have been analysed, supported and explained by the rapporteurs of the government majority and, above all, by the relevant Minister, who is trying to bring together a situation that is not easy. They know those who have beforehand governmental experience. Furthermore, despite the need for this drama within Parliament, we must be innocent and unmistakable, and every time we find America, what I would like to remember is what the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK have done for the last forty-five years. Have they taken care of an integrated national spatial policy? Have forest maps ever been posted? Is the register completed? Since the 1990s hundreds of millions of euros have been spent on the register and it has not yet been completed. At the beginning of the government with SYRIZA there were posted maps at 1%, has reached 36% and continues. It will continue. There may be weaknesses. However, something is going on. This process is moving forward for a national development map. It is a process that will have multiple benefits for small owners as well, for people who have lots and try. It'll be cleared out in total. That's not what I heard was questioned. But I have not heard a word about the fact that a process has started, which everyone admits is necessary and beneficial. However, some political remarks have been made. For it is always in Parliament that the technical debate on a law gives rise to either a deeper political dialogue or a sloppy political spiral, sometimes openness. Mr Maniotis has called on Mr Stathakis because he is in Brussels and is negotiating. Firstly, I do not understand the style and if this acidity is appropriate to the parliamentary seats. Mr. Maniatis is an oldest congressman, and he will certainly know better. But I don't understand the pragmatic matter. When the country has been in an eternal negotiation, painful and hard for the citizens, especially for society, for our fellow people, the Greeks, since the end of 2009 with a peak in the spring of 2010, where would the ministers negotiate? Kastelorizo or the Cannes corridors? We should say that. Battles are being fought everywhere. Other ministers and other people politically before our government were cut off, "blanked" by lenders. This hostage experienced by the Greek people has been permanent, at least since 2010. It is therefore unfavorable and insulting to the Greek people that a Minister should be indicted, because he is in Brussels and is negotiating for the good of his country, for the good of the whole society and the whole economy. And my dear colleague Mr. Javaras invoked the great Greek political philosopher and history of the ideas Panagiotis Condylis for the Greek decline. However, Mr Javarras is right to mention him. The late Panagiotis Kondylis, however, ravaged the parasitic elite that lived from the 1960s which was a member of the Panagiotissias until his brilliant career in the German academic space and in the international literature. We'll have to see what he recorded as a Greek pathogen. It is precisely the parasitic and octocratic elites that have dissolved Greece and put the Greek democracy to a blind test. Remember, so we can place it. Mr Javarras also said - because that is the point of dialogue - that the left in general is against the free market. The whole post-war history of Greece and the post-war state proves exactly the opposite. The state was in the hands of a right-wing oligarchy which ruled out any left-wing oligarchy. The certificate of mind was valid until the 1970s on Judas. Only the Migration deported and abolished after this situation. It was part of society. And the most worthy merchants, free traders, craftsmen, engineers, contractors, publishers, businessmen throughout the post-war Greece were left, because they could not have as a trophy and as a field of state law. That's the story, and Mr. Javarras knows it. That is why, when it talks about the free market and its relationship with the left, it should be more careful.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u113	You're liberal, that is.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u114	No, we're people of work. Left is the party of work. We're saying the negotiations are slow, and it has to be quick. Governments of PASOK and of New Democracy were also negotiated during the seven years of the hostage and suffocation for the Greek people. It's difficult to negotiate. There'll be delays. There may be some mistakes. It is difficult and will continue to be difficult. Greece will not come out of this historical trial easily and unbelievably. We're losing kids. We're losing people. However, the negotiation, Mr Javarra, with all my appreciation, is not done either with my hands down or with my eyes closed. Trading is done with pain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr. Xydakis. Mr Famelos has the floor to make a legislative improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Mr President. Following the debate with Mr Karras and on the precise legal arrangements for the application of the article, the precise wording, which I shall be tabling on the Minutes, is: ‘The provision of the previous paragraph also takes over the pending procedures on 22 March 2017’. So it does not have retroactive effect, but it also takes over the remaining ones. I put this on the basis of Article 20 of Law 1558 and on behalf of Mr Stathakis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u117	I would like to ask you, please, to distribute the legislative improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u118	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u119	Has Mr Maniotis asked for the floor on staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u120	For a second, Mr President. I guess you'll give us the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u121	It's tritology. It's not a dentist.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u122	It's a deuterology. We've spoken once.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u123	To take the floor for two minutes each.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u124	If all the speakers talk, all the speakers will talk, but how many minutes? We'll set time, not then everyone asks for the floor, because we're already out of time. There'll be two minutes for all the speakers. Please, Mr. Screka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u125	First of all, with regard to the amendment brought by the Minister responsible, we without a sterile party controversy are calling on you to discuss and really to address the problem and to provide solutions that will finally release the citizens from the hostage which for decades have been in their possession and to give a development breath to that country, resolving a problem concerning forest maps and their ratification. However, because, Minister, you referred to an issue that you were not actually the Minister responsible for, and it is the question of PPC and the energy sector in the country, I would just like to say two things about what you said the government has achieved. I will tell you that in these two years of governance SYRIZA - ANEL of the country, PPC has lost 80% of its stock exchange value of around EUR 2 billion. Unfortunately, PPC cannot borrow today. Let me note that in 2014 it had addressed the international markets and issued bonds of EUR 700,000,000 at an interest rate of 5% without any guarantee. Today he tries to borrow EUR 200,000,000, to refinance the three-year bond of also EUR 200,000,000, which had been received in 2014 and systemic banks require guarantees from future receipts that the company will have and from good customers. In other words, they ask for future claims, future receipts by PPC to the banks to lend it money. I should also like to say that with this disastrous agreement reached by the government with the institutions you have imposed on PPC to lose about 50% of its turnover, to reduce its market share from 90% today to 50% in the next three years without any objection, free of charge. In this way, PPC will have in three years half a turnover, but you do not say how it will pay its staff, how it will be modernised, how it will pay the loans it will have, how it will survive in an increasing competition and how it will do the development work it needs to do, as it is the country's main pillar of energy security and adequacy. And not only that, you have chosen an IPMI, which removes from PPC up to EUR 500,000,000 revenues that you could have had if you had chosen a rationale for privatising IPMIE. Unfortunately, in the two years you have led PPC to the brink of bankruptcy, as the PPC Chairman and CEO himself confessed a month before Ptolemais lignite centre and as the President of GENOP - PTK Mr Adamides yesterday said, as well as the payout of employees' wages is currently in danger and all of this is in danger within two years of your governance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u126	Thank you. Mr. Maniotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u127	Let me start with the non-energy minister to inform him. Minister, you are not responsible for energy, so it is good to hear some people who know the energy a little more. After I imagined that the people who joined the "Security at home" were forty and not fifteen thousand, as the Minister said to us, since we also agreed that the government, through the Vice-President of the Government and the current Minister of Energy, has included in the TIADE for sale in 17% of PPC, to finish with what is data and I have submitted it, to tell the Minister for Energy that it is truly regrettable and it is a prize for the world negotiations that the Prime Minister accepts that his country's largest operation in the field of energy should be reduced, and that he should not take a single euro in return for it. Not a single euro! Mr. Tsipras signed PPC's contraction to 50% of its current capacity and against it it took 0 euros. This is an example of avoiding international diplomacy and international negotiation. Mr Xydakis, I have called on Mr Stathakis and the other ministers in Brussels. Do you know why I did it? Because the main ministers do not represent themselves, they represent the country. I, too, remember the SYRIZA government very well saying that we don't even accept them to the ministries. And they went to Hilton. After leaving Hilton, the Prime Minister was begging them, and in strings and organs the troika finally returned for negotiation. And the troika left. And after the Eurogroup yesterday, Mr Tsakalotos was asked to return the troika. And the troika said: 'We are not going back because we have nothing to talk about'. And for the first time, four Greek ministers were forced, since the troika did not come - it was not accepted to see them in Hilton - to be in Brussels hotels. If this honors the Greek Government, I leave it to SYRIZA's colleagues. For me it is a process that I would have liked my government to have avoided in every way. One final comment I want to make on energy. Minister for the Environment, it is a little smile that has caused a government for twenty-four months which has done absolutely nothing to research on hydrocarbons, a government which voted against the contract - and you were also one of the voters - for the utilization of the patronage. When you voted against all three contracts for the hydrocarbons we brought, only a smile, your allegedly injuring that you are moving on with the hydrocarbons. I shall end, Mr President, with the forests. You know it's important for citizens to know who, since they can't make something right, they make it even worse and destroy something that was there. Mr. Minister responsible for forests, do you know that in 2012 and 2103 forest maps were uploaded and penalised in seventy-two areas of the country? I shall read you a few thousand acres.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u128	And the percentage of the country's land to tell me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u129	Sixty thousand acres, Elijah forty-five thousand acres, Kavala forty thousand acres, Kilkis sixty thousand acres, Katerini sixty-four thousand acres, Thermi, your constituency, fifty-six thousand acres, Marathon in Attica ninety-five thousand acres.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u130	Please finish, Mr. Maniotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u131	I shall conclude, Mr President. Do you know why I mentioned these completely indicative? In order for the Minister to realize that the procedure existed and was running. He ran into seventy-two parts of the country, and while the process was going on normally, he had no idea that there was a problem with forest map sanctions, the SYRIZA Government came, changed the law, and this change of law has brought about the disruption it has caused. At least you learn from your mistakes. It will be in the interest of your Government for as long as you remain in the governance of the country. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, too. Mr. Amyras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to say this: by listening to my dear colleague Mr Xydakis, one would say that I think one of his sausages has taken his place and spoke in such a large way about the events of the previous negotiations. "Yes..." - says - "...and the previous ones chopped and bent roughly." The difference, however, now, dear Mr Xydakis, to use the vocabulary of your own party, especially 2015 and enough space of 2016, is that for your days you are not only beaten, but you are also in existence. Your abuse, in other words, escapes violence and extends to other fields.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u134	What do you mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u135	If you don't have the idea of understanding it, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u136	You need to know who you're talking to. Everyone has his story!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u137	Don't play this for us, Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde, and don't make these moves to me with your hand! To do them first and foremost to your comrades, who here in 2015 and 2016 "German girls" brought us up and "German girls" down!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u138	Please, Mr. Xydakis and Mr. Amyras!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u139	Insinuation! They're honoring these insinuations!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u140	So now I come to the other line of the other government, Mr Famelou, which said: 'Our ministers went to Brussels to win a fight'. What exactly can they gain, Minister? The tax-free, which you posted at EUR 8,600, will you now bring it up to EUR 11,000, to EUR 12, to EUR 15,000, or to EUR 5,900? What exactly are you going to win? Because the only one who doesn't win is Greek citizens. The economy is dry, it's pissed down, the banks are empty, and the citizens say "funny now with your negotiation!" [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] As far as this childish argument is concerned - and Mr Janakopoulos said so - that we are late and hopefully hopefully in April, he lived in May for a triple. This childish argument that we are late, we are late, we are late, but we have good reasons to make the proud negotiation, it is not going anywhere. It only passes on to those who have no contact with real life and do not realize that time and delay is a crucial size of negotiation. But what can you tell them? These are the people who have given the public property to the lenders for ninety years now, in the superstition, which is controlled by the lenders and for which Mr Xydakis is "kitch". Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u141	Mr. Shahinides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, Mr President. We hear too much here in the Chamber. The point is, we usually hear the half truth that exists. We heard about the register, which started over the days of PASOK, but we did not hear that in the days of PASOK and Mr Laliotis, which had started it, if I am not mistaken, enough money had been collected. No one mentioned where this money went, no one mentioned what happened. And because we have heard about virginity, I think that in today's conflict the majority of members and MPs come from the former PASOK. So they can't blame and say they're poor of their responsibilities. We have also heard of wood, which is played in the negotiations. If you're gonna play wood in the negotiations, Mr. Xydakis, we're very good at wood and we can help you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u143	As a bully?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u144	Not like bullies! As you used it, I use it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u145	You don't know the Greek language, dear.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u146	I know her very well. Although I have not studied, I consider myself educated and not "formed" as some others are in here. We have learned to “return” when we eat wood, so that I do not give you the right to say what you say. Unfortunately, you're going to the negotiations with your head pounded. The fact that you have come to the negotiations to eat asynchronously is your responsibility and your own mistakes. We had also heard in committee from the Minister of State, Mr Stathakis, that the New Democracy had been generous in the past. It is true, because the New Democracy, when it had taken over the sale of the DESCA to the Agers, had granted it to this sale - I had told the committees too - and all the future infrastructure that will emerge. We also heard about the HICP, but we didn't get an answer. We know very well, as I mentioned before in my protology, that the TIADED had these titles I mentioned, that is, seventy-five thousand five hundred. Of them, only six and a half thousand had clean papers, they knew how many acres there are and where the buildings and the government are coming today and they want to finish the forest maps. There are too many loose ends. Unfortunately, what has been done today is in a completely wrong direction. One of the additional reasons why the Golden Dawn will vote against today's Azerbaijan conflict is that of what is happening internationally and the Azeri have shown their support. And if we take into account the statements made by the 'Sultan' Erdogan in the last few days, we have every reason - believe us - to vote against this particular Saddam Hussein. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u147	Mr. Lazarides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, Mr President. I wanted, Minister, to say this: I have heard the speech we had on photography and the report in 1945 and 1960. I'd say we get later in 1960, at least for the periods during which we had land reforestations and distributions, because you know that we also had distributions in 1970. Therefore, we should from these times draw evidence, because we have usage changes, we have earth's appearance changes. I'd like to say something else now. The safest way, Minister, to draw conclusions on the status, use of a parcel, is, as I had said in committee, to obtain data from the land registers of the old communities, municipalities, topographical services, prefectures, or agricultural services. And it's the safest way, because you know that these land registers have been drafted in an unsuspecting time, that is, they have been drafted in times when no one would have any reason to present sincere data there. Also, something else: With regard to 20%, which I said earlier, it is only 20% available for cultivation of land area from the whole surface of Greece, it is really pathetic. I mean, I presented this as an element to understand that something is wrong. And I am addressing a number of colleagues to say that it is not a lack of sensitivity, it is, on the contrary, sensitive. We are all sensitive to the protection of forests, but we are also sensitive to the protection of property. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And here I will close now, Minister. In order to understand the ambiguity under which the whole system was operating all these years - because I said before that this is not a problem of the present Government, it is one of the problems that come from the past - I will read to you in half a minute how it was characterised in Law 998/1979 as an area as a forest: "As a forest land it means all an area of the surface of the soil, covered by sparse, high or dull vegetation of any vegetation and capable of serving one or more of the preceding paragraphs of operations." This is the definition of a forest area. If anyone understands this definition...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u149	You're welcome, Mr. Lazarid.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u150	This is where I close, Mr President. I have already heard some colleagues from Opposition talking about entrepreneurship. entrepreneurship in our country has been killed by their own parties. Two hundred and fifty-two thousand businesses are closed. All these little shops we see closed outside have been shut down by their own governments. That government didn't turn it off. Therefore, they must be more careful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, too. Here, Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor. I ask you to keep the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be brief, too. I would like to start with the point that the Minister said about the fact that we have followed the Rules of Procedure of the House. I am referring to Rule 112 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, which states: 'Legislations and propositions for ratification of international treaties or conventions: The House approves or rejects bills and drafts of laws which ratify international conventions or international conventions without any change in the content of the Treaties and conventions'. In no case are we talking about amendments embedded in the conventions. Therefore, the Rules of Procedure of Parliament have not been complied with at this level. And I would like to ask you, Minister, if you are aiming and committed - and to your credit - that a comprehensive draft law will be followed on forest maps, because you have not only brought the extension, which is, in fact, the essential thing we have to vote on today. You could only bring in the extension. It wouldn't have happened - sorry for the expression - the popular festivities from all of the Opposition. In a penalty to sit down and talk about something that should be over in twenty minutes. It has also been reported that you are bringing them for free. I agree. Free posting of maps. However, Greek citizens will pay the whole end and the whole procedure for the objections that will be raised by those who want to question forest maps. I now move on to the part of the negotiation, because I too would like to make two comments. We're talking about endless negotiation. I fear - and I apologise for the expression I shall say - that the 'Varoufakia' we have lived in has been an incomplete episode and we are watching it become a sequel and we are now going to the second part in a corresponding period of time after two years. It would be a good thing if the government stopped blocking, calling on all the political leaders and telling them the truth, and it must also tell the Greek people what it is negotiating about, what the measures are, and what the countermeasures that it will bring and ask us to vote on. What are you asking us to vote? You're asking for a la cart consent right now, bring whatever you want without having informed any political leader before. With regard to the New Democracy and the PASOK, which are the perpetrators of the country's bankruptcy to a very large extent - not to say that in the two years that SYRIZA governs it all - let them stop hiding, let them also take their responsibilities and not just make opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u153	Mrs Karakosta has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u154	Today we have come to discuss two very serious and fundamental issues. I don't understand why we talked about all the other things, apart from that, as we would have done. We are therefore voting today for excellent cooperation between our Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Industry and Energy of Azerbaijan. It is very important because it leads us to the development of renewable energy sources, which is a very large and essential part not only for our country, but for the whole world, in order to really change our course in this area. However, there are also substantial amendments on forest maps. I stressed in my protology their value. I am pleased that Mr Screka has been placed in his dentistry, which, with one phrase, said: OK, we are doing so well. Where we find a few things that are probably not right, we can fix them and help us all together. But I don't really understand Mr. Maniots, who is caught in traps. So he came and told us sums: so many acres here, so many acres there. If you added them, the total would not be more than 1% of Greece's land. So it's a very small job for so many years of governance. And he says with so much emphasis: You have twenty-four months in government! He never thought his party was forty years in the government and he did nothing. And because he brings examples and he likes them, I will tell him that in 2002 a forest map was posted in the MARCO region, a productive area of Attica - all vineyards and wine production - and there were two hundred objections. From 2002 to 2014, which was a government, these two-two objections were not dealt with. We have, however, been in these years - the two - that is! - We've managed and solved their problem. Objections have been dealt with. A wine grower who wanted to make a winery for twelve years could not. Wait for us to resolve this matter. Mr. Maniot never thought of that. I wonder how he finds the courage to bring examples that the world is experiencing and we are going to solve the problems. I do not want to say anything but address the Greek women and the Greeks who have to understand that in this country, if we have no background, we will never have growth. That is why the citizens must be very helpful in what is actually essential today in this country. I am pleased that we will vote on this part by a number of colleagues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u155	The Minister has the floor, with which we are closing the sitting, because we have reached an endless debate. How much time do you want, Mr. Famele?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u156	One five minutes, Mr. President. First of all, Mr President, I would like to remind you that in the committee I asked for the phrase 'and other provisions' to be added to the title of the bill for formal reasons. I don't know if he's been to the "inn", if we're okay. Secondly, because it has not been heard, I would like to say on behalf of the Government that we are expressing our solidarity with the British people with regard to the blind attack that has been made today in the centre of London, as we should. At the same time, I would like to say that today is the global water day. We must state our view that water is a social asset and, in our proposal for the constitutional review, the provision for public water control will be included. At the same time, this government proceeds with the urban basin management plans and the first six-year delayed review by the previous governments, as well as a plan for waste water with facilities throughout Greece, because there are more than a hundred settlements with more than two thousand inhabitants, which have no treatment and sanitation facilities, as they had to do with European legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, there has been a lot of discussion on the negotiation, and the question is what one is gaining from it. Let me give you an example. We have won the fact that the main pensions up to EUR 1,300 are urgent and you have not voted for it. We asked you at the Heads of State or Government's meeting to support it, but you did not. We won it. We have won that the 2016 surplus, the thirteenth one-off payment to pensioners was made and the pensioners were given this money. You didn't vote for it. But it happened and we won it in the negotiation. That's what the country wins in the negotiation. Was the process right today? I would like to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that the right thing to do would be to get the ratification to come and not to discuss anything else. However, no amendment has been made to the body of ratification, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure. Only prolongation entered the sanction. At the same time, Mr Georgiadis, I would like to say that what you have raised, namely the question of reforestation, has also been the case for the subsequent studies. It's a technical matter that we all agreed on. It was also included that the unfounded map should not result in OPEKEPE and public property. No one disagreed on this, as well as on the fact that it will start reafforestation only for agricultural uses. No one disagreed on that. The rest will be discussed in another legislative act. We did not ask the House to vote on anything. Clearly, we never asked for that. We further improved the 2010 law. We did this, as we did in 2016. This is a step forward. The question, then, is why should we discuss something that does not exist to create impressions? Mr. Skourletis, in a question about September, said today: "We abstain and work exactly for the opposite. We are talking here about an agreement within the next month." Mr. Theocharopoulos heard September. It's not my fault, it's probably the otorinolaryngologist. No new measures are added from negotiation and delay. We have made it clear that we have closed the obligations since November 2016. Mr Thompsen has been asking for the measures since 2015 and is still asking for them. Let Europe take a stand, let the other parties take a stand. We're in position. As far as I am concerned, Mr Javarra, your point of view on the free market is concerned, I will give you my opinion. If a free market is 'SIEMENS', 'NOVARTIS' and 'air' loans to your ombudsmen, you can enjoy this free market. We want the market and society to be equal. You did not ensure that, Mr Javarra, forgive me, so society has chosen something different.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u157	What did you do?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u158	But is there a need to discuss energy issues at the moment? First of all, Mr Maniatis, I think - without any personal disposition, I have never said anything personal about you - that PPC's 'accidents' in your communication has probably led to the question about the wages of workers. So I answered and Mr Screkas heard it. There is a statement from PPC that there is no question of the payroll and payment of the employees and of the liquidity of PPC. So it was powered by colleagues, Mr. Screka, in here, not by real facts.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u159	I wish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u160	Is there a need, however, to make the state work better? You put it. Yes, no matter what opinion of state or free economy, there is. That is why, Mr Javarra, we introduced the view and regulation of reafforestation now - the state had to do so and you did not speed it up - the obvious mistakes to be solved - you did not speed it up - that the actions of the administration are depicted and exempted without fees for citizens - you did not speed it up. So in this area we are going further on your own arrangements. The question is why we haven't done it so far. Also, with regard to the view to the cost of legal persons governed by public law, I told Mr Javarra in private, and I say it publicly that it concerns a ministerial decision and not a regulation and it is in Parliament. It will soon be included in the next acts, but not those which we put today, because it was only an extension and the ratification did not allow us anything different. I should also like to make it clear once again that the IPTO with our own policy remains in public control. The opposite is said by the New Democracy today to be sold out. PPC clearly made great changes with this government, first of all, because we introduced PPC into the countries that will receive a certificate and have aid from the greenhouse gas trade, which the previous government left in addition to the regulations it introduced for 2014. At the same time, this government has made a 15% discount on the consistent consumers, made arrangements to increase collection, has uploaded the Renewable Energy projects, has opened subsidiaries in Albania and Bulgaria. For God's sake, we do too much for energy policy. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] And I'm going through this, and I'm finishing up, Mr. President. Did the posts take place in 2013? They're uploaded. What percentage? In 1.5%. How many objections? Five and a half thousand. Did the state solve them? We just heard about the Municipality of Paionia, if I'm not mistaken, that the previous post was tragically wrong and left the citizens uninformed. That's what you did. The colleague, Mr. Georgantas, said so, Mr. Manatis. What can I tell you? Can I also tell you that the committees at the Kallistis Tower, in the Cyclades, in the Municipality of Spartans, in Laconia, in Katerini, in Makriyalo, in Methoni, in Antalamus, in Messinia, in Asprochoma, in Messinia, too, in Tripoli? Can I tell you that the committees in Drosia, Kifisia, Marathon, New Pendeli, Pendeli have not worked? The committees did not work. Is that the posting that took place? At a rate of 1.5% and the committees did not work! For Christ's sake! But we have to talk about it, sort it out. Mr. Georgios said so. We need to solve the problems caused by the previous incomplete, limited, incorrect posting you have done. That's the reality. My colleague from New Democracy said so. In order to inform the citizens, the cost of objections has also been reduced. There's no need for a topographic chart, there's no need for a law firm. Suffice the E9 statement. They don't need contracts. The presumption of the public is outside today's discussion of forest maps. It's about another conversation. Let's do it, but it's not about forest maps. At Patmos we met twice with the mayor and we have made it clear that the municipality still did not send the boundaries of settlements and settlements. What else can we say? Should we say something different when these basic obligations have not yet been fulfilled? At the same time, in the ministerial decision on manifest errors, the issues of the form of vegetation will also be resolved. At the same time, to say that it is another procedure for the lifting of reafforestation which is a Forest Service, and another is the objection to the use which is the Committee on Objections. For the purpose of defining the forest, there was indeed an estimate of unconstitutionality for the 2003 Law of the previous governments. And we're with the n.e.c. 2016, with legal control by the S.T.E., we passed a definition of the forest. On the issue of Kilkis, Mr Georgantas informed us today and we were informed by Mr. Parastatides and by Mayor Guntenoudis. Thank you for raising an issue that has been raised by old legislation. The citizens were not informed, indeed. I have to say that we will see correspondence with the municipality on informing citizens, but there is an objection from the municipality. So he was aware. It is the only thing we need to clarify if there is a question with the OPECE. I reply to Mrs. Arabaji. With the new posts, there's no problem. There'll be tools. With the old ones, I can't know about the 2013 ratification. It was July 2013 the ratification. However, with regard to obvious mistakes and actions by the administration, I think we can resolve this in the legislative arrangements that we are going to bring about. On the other issues, however, let me see the same thing as all the other citizens who are included in the respective billing lot. So there is no question of this legislative process or this post on subsidies, because tools will be created. At the same time, tools were created by law of this government for grazing land. She said Mrs. Arabatzi that this had been solved by previous governments. The technical solution of 2014 or 2013 was tragic and all of Europe knows it. Let us not talk about how grazing land and pasture have been solved in the previous governments. They've all figured it out, and we have to put it on the right tracks. That is what we do and we do it very well. Let me say, if I'm not mistaken, Mr. Georgiadis, that it's very important what you said. On the subject of the ministerial decisions by Mr Chironi, I should like to make a clarification. The Ministerial Decision 3-11-2016 has the opportunity to object to all those who have a legitimate interest. With E9 there is no problem, they can do - if you like - and the invocation of usage. However, in Decision 22-3-2016 they cannot only receive a field by using usage. It's a different setup. Objections or objections to the characteristic can be made by all those who have a legitimate interest, including the neighbors or OTA, but not by receiving a wooded field for evacuation. That's where we have to prove ownership. Mr Lazaridis, I agree that reafforestations are imported as administrative acts and are recognised. Finally, with regard to the New Democracy amendment - and I am closing with that, Mr President - I must say that it is not acceptable. I have explained to the committee the reasons. The legitimate solution to reafforestation is from the Forest Service and not the Committee on Objections. The objections to forest, grassland and rocky areas have been decided by the S.H.E. that they must be submitted. It cannot change with the amendment to paragraph 7 of the New Democracy. Finally, for the paragraph that suspends the imposition and recovery of fines, although it refers to forests, I repeat that it is a provision that legalises those who trample or evacuate either their own land or their neighbour. It is not specified in the amendment. Evidently, they cannot be confirmed and fines cannot be collected. The process of evacuation that we will introduce in a subsequent arrangement will allow for suspension of sanctions. This is important for the farmer, we will legislate here, and we will also talk about it in committee without any problem. Thank you very much for the debate. We are all richer in these processes. I very much appreciate it, and I think that in the next debate that we shall be having in both the committee and the House on the matter of forest maps, we will conclude a tool that will be useful to society and the environment, of course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u161	And I thank you in my turn.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u162	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds. I have a personal issue. Are you giving me "SIEMENS"?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u163	You're welcome, Mr. Javarra.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u164	Please, Mr President. He said to me, 'I thank you for 'SIEMENS' and 'NOVARTIS'. To me personally...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u165	On political terms and in the New Democracy, Mr. Javarra.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u166	Nor in the New Democracy, because the New Democracy struggled to reveal itself to a committee of inquiry which has no precedent, and you should know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u167	Mr. Javarra, you also give it to the Minister and the debate is over.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u168	All right, Mr. President! We're patriots too!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u169	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy: "Following the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Environment and Energy of the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Industry and Energy of the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on Cooperation in the Renewable Sources and Energy Efficiency and other provisions". Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u170	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u171	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u172	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u173	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u174	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u175	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u176	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u177	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u178	Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: "Following the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of the Environment and Energy of the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Industry and Energy of the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on Cooperation in the Renewable Sources and Energy Efficiency and other provisions" was accepted in principle by a majority. We are entering the motion for a resolution. Asked by this House: Can Article first be accepted as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u179	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u180	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u181	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u182	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u183	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u184	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u185	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u186	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u187	The first article was therefore accepted as a majority. Does the House agree to the second paragraph, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u188	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u189	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u190	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u191	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u192	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u193	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u194	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u195	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u196	The second article, as amended by the Minister, was therefore accepted by a majority. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Does the House agree to the hotel article, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u197	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u198	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u199	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u200	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u201	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u202	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u203	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u204	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u205	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: "Following the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of the Environment and Energy of the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Industry and Energy of the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on Cooperation in the field of Renewable Sources and Energy Efficiency and other provisions" was accepted in principle and on articles. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u206	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u207	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u208	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u209	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u210	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u211	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u212	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u213	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u214	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: ‘Preparation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of the Environment and Energy of the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Industry and Energy of the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on cooperation in the field of Renewable Sources and Energy Efficiency and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the articles and the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u215	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u216	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. The Minutes of Monday 30 January 2017 and Tuesday 31 January 2017 have been distributed and the House is asking whether they are validated.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u217	The minutes of Monday 30 January 2017 and Tuesday 31 January 2017 were therefore confirmed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-22-S1-commons.u218	With the consent of the House at 21.30 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday 23 March 2017 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's work: (a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate and (b) legislative work, according to the agenda distributed.
