ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] On behalf of the President of the House, many years and Christ Anestis! Ladies and gentlemen, before entering the agenda, I would very much ask that we keep a minute's silence on the death of the four officers, expressing our condolences to their families and, of course, our wishes for rapid recovery in the rescued, the fifth crew member. [[In this respect, I should like to draw your attention to the fact that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks ……]] Their memory is eternity! Ladies and gentlemen, it is now fifty years since 21 April 1967, fifty years since that fateful night that the devastation of democracy by the Constitutional junta has put Greece in the plaster for seven years. This day wakes up to nightmareic memories, with a series of dramatic events that will culminate with Attila and the invasion of Cyprus and end with the return of the great politician of modern Greece Konstantinos Karamanlis, who, with the help of all the political forces of that time, led our country and democracy to the restoration of the island. We are honouring the fighters of the anti-DTTR today, all who have fought for the defence of democratic values, without regard for personal costs. Today's conditions, which we are experiencing, impose as much as ever again the compassion and unity of the Greeks. They demand that we go wisely and harmoniously. In a rapidly changing international environment, we are all called upon to defend modern democracy, which we have all built with difficulties, conflicts and problems since 1974. At the same time, however, we are also called upon to give a daily struggle for the continuous upgrading of the quality of democracy and the defence of its institutions, while at the same time isolating every divisional perception and anyone who is looking forward to it. Ladies and gentlemen, fifty years later, Greece is now a sign of stability and a model of democracy for our neighbourhood. We are a country which has earned its role in the European family, and with whatever problems we face, we are a strong and equal member of the Union. Our aim cannot be to create, together with our partners, a better future based on the values of peace, progress, security and democracy. Today the lesson of democracy is no more than one: the division is suffering. Democracy alone is the bright path, leading to progress and discrimination, with respect for the different viewpoint and with constant effort for substantial shocks and connections. The Greek Parliament is the guardian and the basis of safeguarding these principles and values and the role of each and every one of us in this Parliament is the highest service to democracy and the nation. For eternity, all those who lost their lives in the struggle for the restoration of democracy! [[Applause]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House. [[They are announced to the House by Mr Andreas Rizzoulis, Member of the Achaeasian Parliament, the following:]] [[A. PRESENTATION OF REFERENCES]] [[Let the page in. 8 a]] B. SUPPORT REQUIREMENTS IN SUPPORT REQUIREMENTS
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Ministers for Maritime Affairs and Islands Policy, Economy and Development, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Foreign Affairs, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Economic, Health, Environment and Energy, as well as the Deputy Minister for Environment and Energy, tabled a draft law on 20-4-2017: "Definition of the International Convention for the Control and Management of the Work and sediment from Ships, 2004 and other provisions". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question report on Monday 24 April 2017. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 718/11-4-2017 topical question by MP Achaia of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Athanasias Anagnostopoulou to the Minister of Health on improving the legislative framework for involuntary hospitalisation of mental patients. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Kilkis of New Democracy Mr Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgiodas to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on "an unjustified delay of the Ministry in requesting the municipality of Kilkis to take over the project "Conservation and Upgrade of the National Stage of Kilkis". 3. Under No 708/10-4-2017, a topical question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on "to issue directly the results of the 2014 notice on protected people under Law 2643/98". 4. The question raised by Mr Ilias Panayotarou, Member of the Association of the People's Association, Mr Ilias Panagiotaras, Minister for Finance, concerning legislation to extend approved expenses beyond hospitals. 5. The question by No. 723/11-4-2017 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Sakis Vardalis, on the loss of life due to the tragic shortages in emergency medicine in the Regional Unit of Halkidiki. 6. The 714/10-4-2017 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Centroon Union Mr.Theodoras Megalonikou to the Minister of Health, concerning the high rates of Cesarean crosses in Greece. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 713/10-4-2017 by MP Achaias, New Democracy, Jason Fotida, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the immediate need for the construction of the Commercial Port of Patras. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The timely question by MP Pella of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Ioannis Sahinidis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity regarding the rapid increase in unemployment in Kastoria on the Government of SYRIZA. 3. The question asked by MP Argolidas of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Ioannis Manatis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy concerning the activation of the decision on the pilot study of the Social Control Zone (Z.E.) The Argos. 4. The question asked by Mr Constantine Hatzidakis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport about the deficits in Athens' urban transport. 5. The Question by Mr. Dimitrios Sevastakis, Member of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr. Dimitrios Sevastakis, Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the reopening of Sami TV and the framework for the proper functioning of regional media. 6. The Question No 333/12-1-2017 by MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information on the financing of journalists and websites. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The Question by Mr Dimitrios Konstantopoulos to the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the support and upgrading of the TEI Messologist. 8. The Question No 504/20-2-2017 by the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the fulfilment of the Nation's Order. 9. The Question No 602/14-3-2017 by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the licenses of assistant teachers. 10. The question by No 572-7-3-2017 of the current question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the extradition of Presidential Decrees on the recognition of professional rights of TEI graduates. 11. Under number 625/20-3-2017, a topical question by MP II of the Centroon Association Mr.Theodoras Megalonikou to the Minister of the Interior regarding the payment of the contractors to several municipalities in the country. I would like to inform you that they will not be discussed today due to the absence of the Minister responsible for Foreign Affairs - I am referring to Lydia Konordos - the first with number 716/11-4-2017, the first question of the first cycle of MP Larissa of the Radical Left Coalition, Anna Vageias, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, about the First Ancient Theatre of Larissa and the strategy of the Ministry of Culture and Sport, and the first one with number 717/114-2017, the second question of the second question of the Attica MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Panayiotis (Panou) kouroliakos to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the resumption of the Municipal Theatres. Also, they will not be discussed by the relevant ministers and will be redefined, the second with number 711/10-4-2017, the first time question by the New Democracy MP, Dimitrios Kyiazidis, to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on the implementation of the project to build the road axis "Drama – Amphipolis" - Mr. Spirtzis is responsible and will not be discussed due to a workload - and the second by number 721/11-4-2017, the second time question by Mr. Achaias of the Democratic Symphony PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the delays in the implementation of the project to extend the Prestige between Patras and West Achaiasias. Also, the third, with number 720/11-4-2017, is the first question by the MP Iraklios of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMARK KEGROGlou Vassiliou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the need to drastically reduce the excessive charges for consumers by PPC, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister for the Environment Mr. George Statakis, due to a workload. The third, with number 727/11-4-2017, topical question by the Independent MEP, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the communication from ELME Thessaloniki on the transmission of the "Survivor", will not be discussed due to the absence of Mr. Konstantinos Gavroglou, due to a workload. Also, the sixth question under number 649/27-3-2017 of the Independent MP from Athens, Eftathios Panagoulis, on the subject of "provocative use of chemicals in protesters despite the recent explicit government ban and the commitment of the Minister", will not be discussed due to a workload of the Minister of the Interior, Mr. Nicholas Toska, as well as the seventh question under number 461/8-2-2017, on the second question of the Athens Parliamentary of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Elenis Zaroulias to the Minister of the Interior, on the terrorist attack against men of MS. With regard to the first question of the circle of petitions by the Member of Parliament Drama of the New Democracy, Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject of "Exemption from the financial management of the Drama Therapy Centre", I am told by the Office and Mr. Kyriazidis that it has already been consulted with the relevant Minister, Ms.Photo, and will be discussed another day. It is therefore not a matter of absence. The second question with number 3354/274/10/2017 question and application for the submission of documents of the petitions cycle by the Member of the Greek Parliament, Mr Spyridonos - Adoni Georgiadis to the Minister of Health, on "regarding the arrest of a foreign dentist on the charge of money laundering in the structure of Amydaleza", will not be discussed because Minister Andreas Xanthos is in Thessaloniki. Also, the third question with number 1775/6-12-2016 question of the State Attica of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Paraskevi Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Health, on the indifference of the Ministry of Health for the Zakynthos Hospital, will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Health Mr. Polakis, on the grounds of a workload. Finally, the eighth Question No 367/20-1-2017 by Evia MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Nikolaos Michou to the Minister of the Interior, on the unacceptable displacement of thirty-six thousand seventy-sixteen Greek children from the nursery stations, will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister of the Interior Mr. Panagiotis Skourletis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u3	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u4	Here, Mr. Panagoulis, you have a minute to say your protest.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u5	This is the sixth consecutive time Mr. Toskas doesn't come to answer. It is unacceptable, Mr President, and I would like to protest to the Bureau and, in particular, to the President of the House, which the ministers do not systematically come. Fifteen times have not come to a timely question from me, Mr. Tsakalotos and Mr. Toskas. Those who fought for the reintroduction of this Chamber here during the dictatorship have demanded that the main ministers appear here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u6	Mr Panagoulis, first of all, you will allow me to say to you: those who fought and those who did not fight in the sense that they might then be children. This does not mean that if they are Members today, what you have said should not be observed. That's just to keep the impressions from happening.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u7	Those who believe.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u8	I would like to inform you once again that now that the second part of the House's Rules of Procedure is being drawn up, I must tell you that the President of this House has the same view as the whole of the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u9	Mr President, we have said this for six months.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u10	Yes, but this part of Parliament's Rules of Procedure is not over. We're trying to find a way to see how we can deal with systematic absences, because there are objective absences that no one can...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u11	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u12	I would also like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u13	Gentlemen, the procedure does not allow it. We cannot start protesting about one thing that we know about, many who are also part of the Conference of Presidents. What do you want, Mr. Cryazides? About the same thing?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u14	Of course, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u15	That is not the case under the Rules of Procedure. It's not happening in the process, but now, in order not to keep unequal distances, you also have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u16	Mr President, if we cannot follow this procedure, we must abolish it. It is regrettable, because there are issues of vital importance which, unfortunately, refer them to the unknown future. The previous debate should have taken place on 24 March and it was not because the Minister was - he says - outside Greece. Where is he today? He hasn't even given an answer. Let her at least have that sensitivity say why she's not coming here. We cannot come here and be absent without justifying his absence. In any case, these are matters that are serious and especially about my prefecture - it is a great day today and I have not had time to say 'Christ Anestis' and wish 'Happy Happy' - because it is a matter of life. It's the only county in the country, in northern Greece...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u17	Mr. Cryazides, don't develop the matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u18	Drama's cut off. It's not connected to the road axle...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u19	Excuse me, but you won't get into the essence of your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u20	What can we do then? Wait when?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u21	And who's gonna answer you after the Minister's away? What's the point?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u22	Should you not do something to ensure that we are also?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u23	Mr Kyriazidis, I say this for the last time and the decision of the Conference of Presidents is unanimous.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u24	Yeah, but do something.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u25	Sit down and listen to the answer. There is no question that there is a problem with the meetings of parliamentary control. You are right, and you and the other colleagues are right. No one gives you wrong. That is why I told you that we are trying to find a procedure that can limit it - within or outside of the introductory - bad. But having a conversation now doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u26	I came from far away...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u27	No one gives you wrong, neither you nor other colleagues. We will see how we can limit the issue and how we can by means of consultation with the government's secretary limit the evil. There's a matter. Nobody says otherwise. I'm tired, too, and the other colleagues who are preside over to call it this way...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u28	It was this party, that government that would respect the process!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u29	As far as I can see, Mr. Kegeroglu would like to say the same thing. Let's move on a little bit. There is, however, a letter from the Secretary of the Government about the absence of the Ministers. Only four questions will be discussed today from the nineteen to the whole. What can I say now? Ladies and gentlemen, we are now entering the debate on the first topical question, from the four that are to take place today. In particular, the fourth question will be discussed under number 690/44-2017 in the second cycle of the Member of the Republican Association of PASOK - DIMARK KEgeroglu Vassiliou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the need for a direct decision for farmers under retirement. He will answer Mr Anastasios Petropoulos - and always consistent - State Secretary for Labour. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. To express from this position my condolences to the families of officers, the victims of the helicopter accident. We must also express the wish for rapid recovery of the officer and, of course, the wish that we do not have any other victims of this kind. Let us say, Mr President, on the occasion of the black anniversary of 21 April, that one of Parliament's main functions is parliamentary control. There is the Legislative and Parliamentary Control. Unfortunately, this has been misunderstood by many ministers over time, except that at this time it is happening against coron. They consider Parliamentary Control to be a success. They state this with enthusiasm, through the expression 'workload'. That's a fierce excuse. There's no Minister who doesn't have a workload. And if we do not ask them politically about this, because there is no regulation that imposes on them - the Rules do not justify their absence because of a workload, and that is why there are double and three persons to each political leadership - then what an incentive will come from Mr Petropoulos who, as you said, is consistent, but also with what incentive the other fellow ministers who are involved in the parliamentary control will come? That is why we need to constantly lie about this indifference to parliamentary control. I would also like to say that this is negative in terms of their work, because Parliamentary Control contributes to better governmental work. Mr Petropoulos may have been reluctant in the past few days, because I have brought him here on several occasions to answer questions, but through the questions and the work that has been intensified in this area, and not only by that reason, too many things have been clarified which have to do with EFKA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u31	Yes, Mr. Kegeroglu, but you have to get to the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u32	I'm already in, Mr. President. It is already clear from 13 March - through the parliamentary control and the question we have asked here - that pensioners of all the funds - regardless of where they come from - up to 31-12-2016 have no impact on their pensions in relation to Article 20 of the Treaty. 4387, for a reduction of 60% of their pension, as provided for in the relevant article, since they already had an activity, namely rural ones, or had received any aid in that capacity. It was left unresolved what was happening with retired people who would have this status from 1-1-2017 onwards. Yesterday a circular of Minister Petropoulos was issued, which states that farmers who will retire from 1-1 to 2017 and then have no impact if they have agricultural income or aid or other work at least by the end of 2024. And that clears up the issue with regard to pensioners. But, Minister, if you are ready today and because you are not talking about pensioners in other funds, I would like you to tell us what applies to pensioners in other funds from 1-12017 onwards, in relation to the parallel work they will continue to have, or to the parallel agricultural activity or subsidy, and of course to us, if these pensioners are subject to ECA contributions, namely health contributions, but also to insurance contributions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u33	Mr President, as far as I understand it, the main issue is the circular mentioned by Mr Kegeroglu. But, if you wish, you can answer the second question as well, with a relative tolerance of time to be given to you. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to say that our attitude to the tragic events which have occurred and the loss of military personnel. However, we must, of course, continue to work at all levels, sometimes at sacrifices, but we must avoid them. Mr. Kegeroglu, this circular came out, as it had been cleared by your previous questions and general my positions, showing that this would be the attitude we would adopt. I said there were different opinions in groups of the rural population. So we chose this solution. We had to choose a solution in time, before the deadline for the announcement of the rights in question expired. I think the matter has been settled in good time. As far as the issues you have raised are concerned, there is no problem for those who are retired from other funds, but who have already been active before the application of the law and before retirement. The question by L.4387/2016 is regulated and predicts that anyone who acquires activity after retirement, then has these cuts. You will know, obviously - I am sure you know from your standpoint - that certain activities could not be maintained because their retention did not grant the pension. So, in the OAU, you had to shut down the books to get a pension, so did EBRD scientists. It is therefore right to resolve the matter. We have for farmers, for the reasons explained in the circular in question, up to 31/12/2014, the right to maintain the activity along with a pension and from 1-1-2025 apply to them the general measure applicable to all others. This is because, from that moment on, national pensions have been granted at a rate such as that which justifies the inclusion of all in the same category as pension cuts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u35	Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the publication of the circular concerning those retired under the OGA rules from 1-1-2017 onwards, in itself, gives rise to the need to respond to what applies to pensioners from the rest of the categories. We cannot avoid it, we must say directly, regardless of whether it was true or not. So we need to answer today for a professional insured in the OAU who is retired in 2017, but who has a rural activity and a small income from it, or for a civil servant who is retired in 2017 and who has had an agricultural activity before, if he is entitled to continue to have it without a reduction in pensions - the question is very clear - and, of course, if all of them, including farmers, are subject to ECA insurance contributions. These two, if we can, we can clarify them. It's really very serious. The first is needed for the same reason as this circular, because the activation of rights is these days. They have the ability to do it. There's room for it now, there won't be a week later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u37	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u38	I think I described it by the provision of the law to which I referred. Let me say this straightaway, with a 'yes' or a 'no' as you ask. No one is concerned with pension matters because they had agricultural property and cultivation or livestock. I said that this would be the case, that is, the pension cut, for whoever gets for the first time. There is also one who does another profession - you know, there are also profitable activities - and it is not possible to operate in terms of unfair competition against other farmers or farmers, the one who first acquires such an activity now. That's not the exception. In the case of contributions, it is the net income that is taken into account as a basis for calculating the contributions. I feel, Mr Kegeroglu, that we cannot impose an exception in this case. It's an income. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, because I have been informed that Mr Mouszalas is in Parliament, but not in Ethiopia - do not go away, Mr Katsotis, I have given a mandate to seek - so that we do not lose time and because Mrs Papanatsiou is here and Mr Kegeroglu, who has a question to Mrs Papanatsiou is here, although she was the fourth question, we are going to move on to her and, I imagine, Mr Mousalash has found her. It is, then, the fifth under number 666/28-3-2017, a topical question for the second question by the MP of Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on "necessary and necessary legislation in order to remain in the special regime of about 400,000 farmers". The question will be answered, as I said, by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Papanatsiou. Mr Kegeroglu, we must be consistent in time, since we have also taken the order of the two colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to say that Mrs Papanatsiou is one of those ministers who respond to parliamentary scrutiny.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u41	Yes, we have now come to praise the ministers that are coming, that is.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u42	I need to.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u43	He needs to, because there's the other one.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u44	And not just. It responds to the problems. Because while we had tabled the question twice and there was the problem, it had not been addressed. However, it was partly dealt with by an amendment tabled on Tuesday. The problem concerns the payment of subsidies, aid in 2016, which involved previous years, i.e. 2014 and 2015. And what's the problem with that? It created a problem, firstly, in relation to a change in the tax regime in respect of VAT and, secondly, with regard to the substance of the taxation of the imposition of an ECA. For the first time, it's solved. Because the amendment you tabled, Madam Minister, provides that, regardless of whether it exceeds, for that reason, the level of aid from the farmer will not change the scheme. It will be the case for the five thousand down and down. But this is about VAT. Agricultural incomes, however, in 2014, were taxed with 13% and subsidies were completely tax-free. In 2015 agricultural incomes were again taxed at 13% and subsidies were tax-free up to 12 thousand, on the basis of a regulation that has been tabled at that time. In 2016, however, the rate is 22%, 45% for agricultural income and subsidies are actually taxed from the first euro, since it has been covered by agricultural income or by another source tax-free if someone had another income. So the problem with the amendment was only partly solved with regard to the VAT system. We are asking - and we want to see your opinion - for a retroactive distribution to be made in the year of reference of aid. Of course, without fines and penalties, because this was a problem between the state of OPEKEPE and the European aid system itself and was not a farmer's problem. To match these years incomes, and in particular those subsidies, in order not to impose on this reason an additional tax on 2016 each farmer of about four hundred thousand, who received an additional subsidy in 2016 for delays in 2014 and 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u45	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I too would like to send the condolences to the Armed Forces and to the families of our wronged soldiers. It is a very sad fact. In fact, with the amendment adopted in the forest map bill, the problem created by the inclusion into the normal scheme of the VAT of farmers, who had exceeded five thousand from subsidies, is solved. Indeed, in 2016, so many subsidies were paid for earlier years, so some had to be included in the normal scheme, from the special scheme, which would not continue for the years to come because the subsidies were concerned over the previous years. With regard to the second part, which concerns the enforcement of the ECA and the income, in this case the legislation clearly stipulates that the income collected at a given moment is divided into the years concerned. So, with the OPEKEPE testimonies, farmers, as you have said, are obliged to declare incomes in the years that they are responsible for. That is, they start from 2011 or 2013 some subsidies by 2016, they will be shared, they will make their amending statements and they will proceed to the clearance of the tax. The ECA, which will be calculated for 2016, will only relate to the subsidies that are in the income of 2016. Here it should be stressed that many of these subsidies, which were given in 2016 and which concerned previous years, primarily subsidies which are not included in income. Most of these concern information, i.e. the single payment is usually given within the year. Some few cases are those concerning one single aid granted in 2016 and related to the previous years with any problems that existed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u47	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u48	Mr President, thank you. I note that you have exactly the same view, which I have with regard to the basic principle, namely that, in the year that they are entitled to receive the subsidy, the amounts should be equal, regardless of whether they were received or paid in 2016. That's what has to be done. However, since it was not included in the legislation, it has problems in implementing it and I would point out to you these problems: Firstly, it must be stated for you that these amending statements for 2014 and 2015 will not have fines and penalties. In this regard, the Commission considers that the measures in question constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty and that they constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty. Unfortunately, the OPECE, up to the time we are talking about - an hour ago - issues a certificate covering all the subsidies it received this year, without separating the years. It is therefore inappropriate that the direction you are giving if the OPEKEPE does not correct its system of attestations. Therefore, both with regard to the ECA and with regard to taxation, this correspondence in previous years is fair. Of course, however, with regard to penalties and fines, we need firstly to regulate and dismiss farmers who will submit these amending declarations, because they are made without their responsibility, and the OPECE must immediately re-issued attestations based on the reference years. It's no different. They are the assurances of the Ministry of Rural Development, but I think it takes a note of yours to the Ministry of Rural Development to make this correction and not to have the problem. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u49	You tell the bride to hear it from the mother-in-law. You're telling Mrs. Papanatsiou to hear it from Mr. Apostolos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u50	That makes sense.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u51	All right, all right. There's no objection. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u52	First of all, it is not that I have the same view as you, Mr Kegeroglu. It is that income tax legislation is different from VAT. The income tax for all citizens concerns the incomes of the year in which they are responsible. So the same applies to subsidies received from the OPEKEPE. There has been cooperation with OPEKEPE. In our meetings, OPECE must send the Treasury the financial statements of the years in which the subsidies are granted. You are now giving me information that I cannot cross-check. But I have to see it and, if it really does not, then I will see how it is going to happen. As far as the amendments are concerned, if taxable income is obtained and it will have some surcharges, there is also tax in this case. I will see with my services and colleagues whether it is possible in this case, because it is not their fault, whether we can and do not have the fine. From there on, I would like to say something about today, since it is the anniversary of 21 April.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u53	It has been covered, by decision of the President of Parliament, by what I have said. Let's not open this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u54	No, no. I'm not opening anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u55	Don't open it. You're very welcome. It is the President's decision not to open the debate. The whole House was covered with what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u56	I would like to say that we are honouring today the fighters of democracy who did not hesitate, have not been afraid and have not plunged the head. Instead, they defended human dignity, values and the highest ideals.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u57	Minister, don't embarrass me. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u58	Nothing more, Mr President. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u59	Thank you very much. I thank both colleagues who gave the order to Mr Kegeroglu and the State Secretary. We enter the fourth with number 722/11-4-2017, the first-cycle question of the Athens Parliamentary II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Christos Katsotis, to the Minister of Migration Policy on the problems of contract workers in asylum services, hot spots, refugee hospitality centres and other services of the Ministry of Migration Policy. Mr Kattotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President. Allow me, as a JRC, to express our grief for the tragic death of the officers of the Greek Army from the fall of the helicopter. To express condolences to the victims' families and to wish for a rapid recovery to the sergeant who was injured in the accident. Minister, in order to meet the needs of the caging of thousands of refugees in Greece, and in particular from the double on the islands of the North Aegean, the government has undertaken to recruit workers for the Asylum Service, the Reception and Identifying Service and the other services of the Ministry of Migration Policy, with fixed-term contracts and with different expiry dates. We note that these are all paid through various programmes. In addition, thousands of workers were recruited through eight-month public works programmes, paid at a poverty rate of EUR 500. These workers are working under particularly difficult conditions, in unacceptable areas, for refugees - immigrants themselves and themselves, and are facing serious problems. Contractors, in spite of their strike mobilisations, remain unpaid, Minister, uninsured, and face a great deal of work. Although the needs remain large, not all workers' contracts are renewed, several of which end at the end of April, creating huge problems. We must note that there are too many of them with necessary skills. Sociologists, psychologists and others cannot be recycled, because they also have an experience and an experience and a relationship that they have in hot spots with refugees. The responses so far to the demands of workers remain general. There are still not enough workers on personal hygiene and protection, no workers' vaccinations, travel at their own expense, often remote, hot spots, and there are cases of unacceptable behaviour and extortion of workers from the point of view of the "responsible and "responsible". At the same time there are thousands of refugees and immigrants trapped in Greece, stacked in 'hosting centres', who need to be immediately detached and transported safely to their countries of actual destination. It is known that we are of the opinion that no new hot spot and no detention centre should be created. We ask, Minister, what measures are you going to take to pay the wages, to pay them, to normally insure all the contractors, to activate all the IKA booklets, regardless of the labels, and to grant the relocation allowance to those who deserve them? What measures will you take to recruit workers with a permanent and stable employment relationship, without conditions and conditions, and to recognise the job as heavy and unhealthy in the specific workplaces and to pay the associated allowance?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u61	Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u62	Mr President, Mr Katsotis, I speak today in mourning day. I'm glad to see that tons are low. Apart from flags, we couldn't be realtors on one day. Mr Katsotis, I think your question is being debated at the wrong time because the result has been achieved. There was a gigantic effort, and the results have been achieved. I will submit to you the documents, where it seems in detail that they have been paid. Now Mart will be paid to all contractors. [[At this point, Minister Ioannis Mousalas submits for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] You're the ones who blame you. I commend the effort that has been made so that through various European and non-European programmes we can meet the needs of infrastructure centres and the hosting of refugees and migrants. The other questions are addressed to the wrong man. It can't be about the Ministry of Immigration to change the legislation on permanentity, about the IKA, about all this stuff. I am with you in his wish to be able to appoint permanent members, but to express a wish until it becomes a reality passes through many other factors. We will therefore try to repeat the programmes. I've also given you the new contests we're going to have. You know that it is legally impossible to hire the same people, while we would like to, because - you are right - they have acquired an added value of space knowledge. You are also right that all the measures provided for in the law on work have not been taken in the first application. At the moment in the implementation of the new programmes, we are ready to produce them everywhere and to everyone. There's nothing else I can tell you. People have been paid. Keep in mind that such holes will exist. Many times they're permanent in public. This does not expropriate the right of workers to protest, we fully respect it. I talked to them, but at the moment, a ministry is being formed. It has to be established Ministry for forty years in Greece. His services are building now. We'll have more holes. We're running really long to catch up with that stuff. We are open to cooperation, but the Ministry of Shipping, for example, when it had to be reconstructed, took two years. We are therefore asking for a leniency in the crisis from you, not from the workers. The workers cannot be diligent and must continue to claim their right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u63	Mr Katsotis, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u64	Mr Minister, if or not the question is up-to-date, you have confirmed it in the reply you have given that there was a problem. You might solve it now. However, we have one information that has not been solved for all contractors. There are contractors who are still unpaid. We hope that this information is not the right thing to do and have been paid, as you say. You yourself say that 'we were not ready to implement what the law intended for this employment relationship' and you say that you are now going to do so. So there are issues which we raise in the question, which were not actually advanced by the Ministry. Of course, we do not disagree that the establishment of the Ministry has been slow to progress and has not yet been completed. This is a matter and you have to say why this formation is being delayed. For as long as this delays, the necessary action is delayed - so to speak - in order to address the major problems of refugees and the workers around them. We must say here that this issue of the permanentity of workers is a very important issue and it is about the fact that refugees will be here for many years, Minister. They won't leave tomorrow and they won't be the only ones because I don't know what will happen later. There is therefore a need for workers of these specialities, who offer important services to refugees, to be permanent, to ensure, in any case, a satisfactory wage and not those of the EUR 500 programmes that they do not get well. Ensure, however, conditions of work such as this, so that the services they will offer are effective with regard to refugees who are trapped in our country. We believe that there are issues that need to be seen with the workers, which need to be addressed. We believe that recycling of these workers will not benefit. The new ones to come cannot, for example, offer services such as those offered by older people with the experience they have gained. It binds the refugee with the worker, with the psychologist, the sociologist, the nurse, the doctor who is in hot spots, and the other workers who offer services. That is why, beyond the legislative framework, we must address ourselves in any way - there are ways of dealing with this issue of the constant work of these workers, in order to provide human services. We don't offer anything else. They are services necessary in this world that are with thousands of problems and lives here in the hostage. These, Minister, and we believe that the question is timely, there are issues and you need to be even more on these issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u65	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u66	Mr Katsotis, perhaps there was a misunderstanding. I didn't blame you for the question. I am pleased to say that the payment of these people has made the question undisturbed. It wasn't an accusation. Your question was intended, it was meaningful, just now that this problem has been resolved. That's all I said. I had no feeling or desire to accuse you of the question you asked. It was your duty to ask this question, but it was our duty today to make it unpopular. That's all I wanted to say, no record of war or anything else. From there on, too many things on a theoretical level, I agree with you. However, the government applies the laws, it can only use any laws it can. I told you that, in order for there to be no recycling, the only tool we had in our hands in these competitions was to put molecules in the previous work. From there our hands are tied to this thing. I would also like it to be appreciated by the House that all the contests made by the Ministry of Migration are carried out through the AACC, even for contractors, i.e., or through the OAED, and there is no possibility - no time, you know, that makes things difficult, but at a level of democracy it is preferable - personal choice of these people. They come out with merital procedures. For the rest, there's nothing else I can tell you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u67	Okay. I'm just watching the date. Mr Katsotis filed it on 11-4-2017. Therefore, then, it might not have solved the matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u68	I admit that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u69	It's been discussed ten days later. So there is no misunderstanding from either side, and Mr Katsothotis has rightly done so. We proceed with the fourth question with reference to the question of the cycle of petitions by the Independent MEP, Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras, to the Minister of Migration Policy, on 'the need to take legislative measures to speed up proceedings before the courts, in cases where the application for international protection - asylum has been rejected'. Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u70	Mr President, thank you. Let me, for our part, condone the Armed Forces and the families of officers for the loss and wish for a rapid recovery to the young person who had the good fortune to survive. As regards the issue now of the timely question to which I am referring, the issue of asylum applications is well known, it is well known that the large number that is afflicting the services and it is equally well known that the issue is often difficult to deal with. Given the guarantees that exist to ensure the individual rights of asylum seekers, I fully understand that these procedures should be particularly careful. We have, however, faced a problem of a wave of large refugees, which I can say was unprecedented for our own country, but we have also dealt with it many times with a bureaucratic dimension, in the sense that we have necessarily made luxury procedures. And where am I talking? I am referring to the fact that, by accepting - and rightly in my view - the views and instructions of the European Union, we have made two points of jurisdiction or judgment, if you would like, to be more precise in my view, before the administration of the Asylum Office and the Asylum Authority, and then we have provided a procedure before the administrative courts. Developments have, however, overturned these legislation for this reason: it already makes the question timely, although it has initially been asked as a simple question, and since it has not been answered, it has changed to a question - it concerns the Council of State - and it has been referred to plenary - the question of whether the appeals committees, the accused have changed to court. If, therefore, they have changed to court, it means speeding up the next stages of court proceedings. If not, then why should we have two degrees of jurisdiction and not have one before the courts, as long as we are exhausted to the administrative authority. That is my first question that needs to be addressed. I have discussed with the Minister - it is accurate, I have to say it - and I know his intention of speeding up. I think, however, that we must also repeat them before Parliament so that the possibility and pressure, if you wish, Mr President, can be speeded up. I call for a legislative change to be more precise. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u71	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u72	Mr Carras, we have also had a personal debate on this matter. I'm going to give you some information you're likely to miss, which I'm going to testify for. Our country is currently the fourth country in asylum applications based on the number, and the second, based on its population. It's Germany first, and then it's us. It is not true that on the basis of the lege artis we have been delayed in asylum. It is true that, in the light of our needs and the needs of refugees and immigrants, we are late in asylum. In Germany until a month ago, the asylum procedure took 17 months. It's less to us. And we're making huge efforts. We were like a state. We started with an Asylum Service with two hundred people. Right now, we have seven hundred people. Our plan is to make a 30% increase. I have said that the procedures for asylum services are strictly legal. It's like this Chinese game that if you pull or if you put a stick above it could be swallowed. We are therefore moving forward, knowing the need, but with such wisdom that it does not cause the Asylum Service to fall. We have fifty-six thousand asylum applications in our country. We never had one. Our country was transit country, as you know. They were coming and leaving. We have the phenomenon of asylum abuse. Unfortunately - and thankfully on the other hand - there is a very delicate line between the fact that the asylum procedure must be speeded up and that the asylum procedure is a crown of human rights in the area of immigration and their legal and humanitarian status must not be raised. We are trying to balance on this. It is true that in our country, in practice, there are four possibilities - asylum, appeals, administrative court, Council of State - while in the countries of law, as France, the Netherlands, Germany, Sweden and Denmark, have two and in some of them three possibilities. So there is one issue. I told you what the trouble is. I am happy to accept your help in working on this. Finally, there is a difference today, Mr President, because we have fifty-six thousand requests, while others are coming. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Let me close with a success of the Asylum Service. At this time, the Asylum Service made twelve thousand relocations, relocations, in countries of Europe, and we have two and a half thousand more ready for relocation. It's started working a little bit better. Also, the Asylum Service made six and a half thousand family reunifications. And that's the work of the Asylum Service. Finally, the Asylum Service has helped to make six and a half thousand voluntary returns to their countries of origin, mainly work done by the International Organisation for Migration. But it also has a contribution from the Asylum Service. This is a priceless service. They are immediately - immediately twenty - five thousand people who found a better life than the one they intended to live here. We are open to any good intention.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u73	Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u74	Mr President, it is a given. I do not question the efforts and intentions of the Minister, the Ministry and the Asylum Service. I recognise them and congratulate them, if you like, on these efforts. However, I still think if we can follow the French model, as the Minister said, where the stages are two, instead of following the four, which I believe are luxurious for the need for Greece. Since the latest data - I do not know if it is entirely accurate - are submitted, Minister, as you know, five thousand asylum applications per month in 2017 - journalistic information is the information, I do not have official information - you understand that at some point we will have to look for how to speed up. And I agree with that. Secondly, I have a concern, which can overthrow the whole scene that has been formed, even with good efforts. If the Council of State is here at the moment and makes a decision in plenary and says that it is wrong to involve regular administrative judges in the criminal asylum committees, because they do not have the guarantees of the judiciary, how will the issues arising from decisions taken in the interim be dealt with? I would like to put it in your mind and in the Ministry's thoughts, because then there will be a need for compliance with a higher court ruling. I do not mention this in my question, but I think that the Ministry should also be involved with a plan to deal with a overthrow, Minister. I don't predict it, I don't know it, but it's on the chances that it might happen. To sum up, then, I'm going to say, yes, I want to help if I can. I will give my thoughts and efforts to simplify the procedure and why. The environment, particularly in the islands, is a fluid, Mr President, and Minister. We have a referendum in Turkey, which gives a stage of uncertainty and at all times a change can occur in the flows even, but also in matters of European Union-Turkey declaration. So let us be ready. I think we should all try to deal with these problems together. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u75	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u76	I have nothing to answer, in the sense that, as you know, these issues are issues that we are already trying to see. And I am sure that you, too, agree that the solution should not be at the expense of international law and the Geneva Convention. Your prehistoric, after all, assures this. Mr President, I just want to tell you that at the moment, on the basis of the new plan that we signed with the European Union, we have achieved and achieved more than a hundred people on the islands for asylum offices so that there can be an acceleration. On two islands we create new asylum offices - in Chios and Mytilini - except hot spots that will make this thing easier. For the first time perhaps, we have almost completed the people of EASO, which the European Union has promised us and which has so far never been done. I think by 15 May we'll be done with this and there'll be an acceleration. However, yes, the problem remains. It's a problem for us, too, it's a problem for these people, the afflicted ones. We must try to find a solution and we are open to proposals.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u77	The debate on the topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-21-S1-commons.u78	With the agreement of the House at 11.15 p.m., the sitting on Monday, April 24, 2017, at 18.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, a debate on topical and urgent questions.
