ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 20-11-2017 delegation, the minutes of its meeting, Monday 20 November 2017, with regard to the vote in the whole draft law: ‘Social dividends and other provisions’ were confirmed by the Bureau.]] Before entering the agenda of the legislative work for the ratification of the State's financial year 2015 and the ratification of the State's balance sheet for the financial year 2015, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Deputy Minister of Finance Mr. George Huliarakis will deposit the State Budget for the financial year 2018. The Deputy Minister of Finance, George Juliarakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of presenting to the House the state budget for the financial year 2018 and its draft report. I also present the 2016 State Budget Report and the 2016 Finance Balance sheet, a tax report, a report by the Directors-General of the General Accounting Office of the State, a tax administration, customs and excise duties, public property and public services of the Ministry of Finance, as well as the declarations provided for in Article 58 of Law 4270/2014, as applicable. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister, George Huliarakis, submits to the President of the Parliament in a digital storage medium (USB stick) the State budget for the financial year 2018, his explanatory report, as well as the State Budget for the financial year 2016, the fiscal account, a report by the Directors-General of the State's General Accounting Office, tax administration, customs and excise duties, public property and public services of the Ministry of Finance, as well as the declarations provided for in Article 58 of Law 4270/2014, as applicable]] Mr President, I would ask you to set dates for the state budget debate in the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs and in the plenary session of this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, let me inform you that the debate on the state budget in the relevant Standing Committee on Economic Affairs will begin on Thursday 23 November 2017 for four meetings, after consulting the committee bureau. The debate in Parliament's plenary will begin on Monday 18 December 2017, in accordance with Rule 123(1) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure and will be concluded within five or more consecutive sittings by Friday 22 December 2017, with a roll-call vote. I hope, Minister, that the next budgets will be better.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the draft laws of the Ministry of Finance: a. Dissolve State Report, financial year 2015, b. Dissolve State Balance Sheet, financial year 2015. The State's statement and balance sheet shall be discussed, as laid down in the Rules of Procedure, with the appropriate application of Articles 122 and 123(8) and Articles 107 and 97. In accordance with Rule 107, which applies accordingly, the Conference of Presidents at its meeting on 15 October 2017, decided to hold the debate at a meeting and if necessary to proceed to a second. We are proposing that a list of speakers should be included on a card and that the parties should not be given a list of speakers in order to have greater Members' participation if they so wish, with five minutes' speaking time and a rotation of speakers. Only the rapporteurs and the special speakers after the last speaker's speech have the right to do so. Do you agree, ladies and gentlemen?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u5	The House has agreed. I would like to say to you at the outset that from the experience of the last two years - last year and last year - there will be flexibility in the time of the speakers, because there has been no great interest in writing by colleagues, so if anyone wants a little more time, there will be tolerance from the Bureau. So we begin with the SYRIZA Secretary-General, Mr Dimitrios Mardas. Here, Mr Mardra, you have the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have to discuss the 2015 balance sheet and balance sheet. With regard to the report, those entries relating to the State's credit income, in which for 2015 we had about 770 billion credit revenues from a total budget of 94.3 billion. As to the costs, the Ministry of Finance had EUR 796 billion in expenditure. Reflecting these amounts are those entries in the balance sheet which refer to the liabilities of the financial position and, in particular, to short-term lending of the State with repos and mortgages. In 2015, the State borrowed 24,8 billion on a short-term basis, while in 2014 this amount was 23,1 billion. A second point which is of interest to the balance sheet is all those figures which refer to revenue and revenue assurances. It is found that the revenue obtained is about twice as high as the receipts, which has happened in the past. Reflecting this development is, once again, on the asset side and more specifically on the financial position, the current assets and, more specifically, the use requirements of previous years, where for 2015 these claims were of the order of 86,8 billion, while in 2014 they were of the order of 76 billion. Here to make the following point: we know that we have overdue public debts. These up-to-date debts, for example 76 billion in 2014, are actual debts plus increments. And we know that increments in the old period have been too high. Therefore, next year we have an increase in this amount, which is the result of the surcharges and some amounts that have been established, but have not been paid by the citizens. I'll be back in the balance sheet. With regard to the financial position, by filling out what we have just said, we say that in the non-current assets, as far as participations are concerned from long-term requirements of the State, which refer to eighty-seven non-listed shares, which are the sum which is of the greatest interest, we have 33 billion this year, compared with 51 billion in 2014. And in terms of passiveness, to close the financial position, we have long-term loans, bonds, etc. of EUR 290 billion, compared with EUR 284.8 billion last year. Here we see that our debt has been held back at a satisfactory level. With regard to the financial performance situation, according to our assurances, operating revenues for 2015 are of the order of 56,1 billion, while 2014 was 57 billion. In other words, there is a fall of 1.6 billion. As to passiveness, we have operating expenditure for 2015 of 47.3 billion compared with 48.8 billion in 2014, which is a 3.6% reduction. Retirement and pensions remained at around the same level of 9 billion and in terms of pensions, four hundred seventy-seven thousand four hundred forty-three pensioners in 2015, compared with four hundred sixty-eight thousand four hundred twenty-two pensioners in 2014. We therefore see an increase in the service of pensioners. The surplus in 2015 is of the order of 6,5 billion, compared with 5,1 billion in 2014 and the debt of the central administration in 2015 closed to 321,3 billion as against 324,1 billion in 2014. We see a reduction in central government debt. Before entering the state budget, I would like to point out that for the first time in 2015 a serious effort was made to use international accounting standards for the public sector, known IPSAS. We have reached a draft Presidential Decree. This method introduces a better presentation of the whole of the country's budget situation, introduces another order, there is better management, and most importantly everyone is that, at general government level, we will have a similar presentation of revenue - expenditure and we will know exactly what is going on. As to the state budget, according to the accounting data, the revenues, on a cash basis this time, are of the order of 51.6 billion. There were 57.6 billion budgets and the 2014 accounts give us revenues of 51.5 billion again. We moved about on the same revenue as in 2014. In terms of direct taxes, according to the accounting data, we have 18.3 billion against the budgeted 20.6 billion, with financial figures of 2014 amounting to 18.8 billion. There are similar developments again. In terms of both indirect taxes - I am referring to the largest funds and the most important ones - we have a figure of 22.6 billion in 2015 compared with 23.6 billion in the budgeted taxes. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. According to the 2014 accounting figures, we had 22.3 billion, so here the differences are minimal. As far as costs are concerned, we have 49.8 billion accounts, compared with 52 billion budgets and 50.8 billion last year. And we have a reduction in expenses. There is not a specific heading that interprets this reduction, it is scattered into a large set of funds. In closing, you will allow me to make a brief overview of the budget between 2009 and 2015, referring to four years - these are what we consider to be the most representative - just to have a more general picture of how the budget has evolved over recent years. The 2009 revenues were in the range of 50.5 billion, in 2010 they were 53.9 billion, in 2014 they were 51.5 billion and in 2015 they were 51.6 billion. The 2009 costs amounted to 71.7 billion, in 2010 to 62 billion, in 2014 to 50.8 billion and in 2015 to 49.8 billion. We have a spectacular reduction in costs. With regard to the primary surplus or deficit, in 2009 we had -20 billion deficit, in 2010 it came down to 8.8 billion, in 2014 we had a surplus of 673 million and in 2015 we had a surplus of 1.7 billion. Finally, with regard to the deficit and the government budget surplus, from -32 billion in 2009 we reached -21 billion in 2010 to -21 billion in order to reach 4.8 billion in 2014 and 4 billion in 2015. This is a general picture of the balance sheet, balance sheet and certain elements of the state budget, which are embedded in the balance sheet of the State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u7	The general rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Theodoros Fortsakis, has the floor. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing two very important issues, the revenue and expenditure account of the 2015 State budget, and the balance sheet of the same year. This debate enables us to exercise repressive control over the results of the implementation of the budget. Excuse me the crypt voice, but I can't do any different. The balance sheet and balance sheet of 2015 are inextricably linked to the economic progress of the same year. It was influenced by her, but it also affected her. In 2015 - we all know - it's a station year. This is the first year that SYRIZA - ANEL coexistence was found at the wheel of the country. This is the first year of a budget policy which, unfortunately, is still devastating. How did the economy move in 2015? 2015 was a 'burned land' year, unfortunately - forgive me the expression - especially as regards the economy. SYRIZA - ANEL with the take-up of their duties have been served since January 2015 and for about six months in a completely failed negotiation with our partners. I am talking about'showing up the memorials', about'surprising', the famous word 'we will get bored with the duoul and the markets will dance'. I'm talking about the negotiation that Harvard University ranked first as the worst negotiation, the 2015 negotiation. Because of all this, the doubts about whether our country could continue in the euro area and in the European area were - I remind you - dominated for a long time in Greek reality. The first major victim of our generalised uncertainty was - as we all know - our banks. SYRIZA’s predatory handling - ANEL led in June 2015 to the imposition of bank holidays and restrictions on the movement of capital. I'm talking about capital controls, which seems to have come to stay much longer than we thought. Our economy has been suffocating under their buckles for two and a half years, without light at this moment either at the bottom of the tunnel. The total dismantling of the banks in the first dramatic half of 2015 created the need for another recapitalisation of them. The Greek State and the old shareholders were damaged, as the value of the banks had now been significantly devalued. In July 2015, a highly controversial referendum was followed in polarizing conditions. Among other things, this referendum caused many reactions as to whether they were within the current constitutional framework, and then now and now. The announcement and holding of the referendum further aggravated the state of our economy and, while all this happened, the conflict suddenly overnight changed. He agreed with our partners to continue the country's fiscal adjustment, concluding the third tough memorandum. The coup d'état became "the king's royalty", praising what was until the previous day. It was an extremely painful memorandum, precisely because it sought not only the continuation of reforms but also the restoration of the broken six-month negotiation of the SYRIZA - ANEL. The cost of this latter was unprecedented for the Greek economy. According to the head of the European Stability Mechanism, we are talking about EUR 100 billion in damage. In August 2015, the third memorandum passed by the Parliament, brought many new heavy measures for all Greek citizens around 7,5 billion euros. The third memorandum is characterised by the unprecedented imposition of new tax and social charges. Despite its adoption, the cohabitation continued to demonstrate the attitude it had during the so-called negotiation. It did not systematically apply the agreeds, seeking and choosing 'yes' in words, but 'no' in practice. This policy has been closely followed by it so far, with disastrous consequences due to the lack of timely closure of the evaluations of the programme. And I'm becoming more specific. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty. The substance was finally completed in July 2016 and formally in October 2016. This delay, which was almost one year old, brought new heavy measures. These measures, together with the previous ones, lead to a result of about EUR 9.4 billion. Despite this extremely negative development, the same ones were repeated in the next assessment. The second assessment was completed in June 2017, i.e. it delayed its closure by about one year compared to the agreed costs, which once again had significant costs, as it brought in new measures of around EUR 5.1 billion. One of the billions is dizzy! Today, two years and something after the third memorandum was concluded, the SYRIZA - ANEL have achieved the unthinkable, the planned measures have now doubled beyond all logic. This is the very expensive price of delays and I am only talking about the obvious and obvious price, which is linked to the level of measures, because there is also a second result, that of the constant burden on our economy, because of the uncertainty that is maintained. I would now like to attempt some comparisons between 2015 budget and the results of its implementation by the SYRIZA - ANEL. I note that the forecasts are mainly based on the expected positive impact of the achievements of the New Democracy in 2014 in 2015. I'm on top of it. Provision of the 2015 budget for growth of 2.9%. Result 2015, 0,3 % recession, when in 2014 we had a growth of 0,7%. Delay in the primary result of the state budget by about EUR 4 billion compared with the forecasts. A significant delay in the central government's outcome. Tax revenue shortfall, such as income tax and the taxation of oil products. Significant downwards in the revenues of privatizations from real estate sales. I could stop here because these figures make it clear that the implementation of the budget is insufficient. But let us see some other evidence. The projection of the 2015 budget was to increase private consumption. As a result of 2015, the decrease in private consumption was. At that time the forecast was talking about increasing investment. The result was a fall in investment. At that time the provision was the repayment of the government’s dues. The result was the launching of outstanding debts. Of the about 3,8 billion euros at the end of 2014, we went to about 6 billion euros at the end of 2015. The uninterrupted creation of overdue debts is still at the expense of the economy, despite the latest improvement. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Until today, the government has not succeeded in achieving the performance of the New Democracy of 2014, so that our partners invent special mechanisms to compel the government to make this elementary and so important. The same bad performance was also made for strengthening confidence in the Greek economy and also for the necessary liquidity in the market. So 2015 was not only a catastrophic year for our economy, but also a year of great discrepancies, compared to what was foreseen. It has been the beginning of an abyssing of the economy, which is constantly accelerating, precisely because of the logic which prevailed at the time and those that have taken place today that are still tormenting us. I will only make two remarks in this regard. Firstly, we are being tortured by the government's inability to achieve objectives that have been set. As a typical example, I will mention growth. In 2017, the government had anticipated an increase of 2.7%. Today the European Commission is talking about growth, perhaps 1.6%. Deviations on divergences without anyone knowing where this catastrophe ends. Secondly, we are being tortured by excessive taxes and excessive insurance contributions. Tax dues are now close to EUR 100 billion. One out of two civilians owes. Insurance contributions break freelance professionals and other categories of taxpayers. I would now like to move on to the labelling of certain points from the excellent report of the Court of Auditors on the accounts and the balance sheet of 2015. This is a report that has already been drafted since 2001. For the first time this year, however, we had the opportunity to discuss this in the committee responsible. What did the President of the Court of Auditors and the other representatives of this supreme court present in committee say about the report? I only choose some points. Point one. The differences observed in the credit revenues from the 2015 lending and payments in relation to the budgets should have led to the adoption of a supplementary budget, in accordance with the principles of budgetary legality. It is clear, then, that the violation of the legal framework is here. Point two. The unresolved balance of taxes, increases in fines and others is growing, so it is now extremely high. The difference between 2014 and 2015 exceeds EUR 10 billion. This is the most important indicator of citizens' tax exhaustion. Point 3. The established and unpaid revenue of the customs offices shall not be recorded in the receipt of the State's statement of account. Point 4. The state budget reserve in some cases has been used in contravention of the legislative framework. Fifth point. A register of fixed assets of the central administration has not been established in contravention of the provisions. This is at the expense of the proper determination of the central administration's financial position. Point 6. Such accounting records shall not be made for the insecure claims. These remarks are extremely important. Some, in fact, are also repeated in the Court of Auditors' report for 2016. The President of the Court of Auditors, however, informed us that the Minister responsible has acknowledged the importance of the observations. We really need the Minister responsible to do his utmost so that we do not have this situation again in the next few years. I therefore really hope that the Minister will listen to these remarks and improve the situation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u9	Mr. Fortsakis, you have to close up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u10	I shall conclude, Mr President, in less than a minute. Ladies and gentlemen, I close by saying that 2015 was a turning point for our economy. It hurt her in an unprecedented way, due to ideology and inability. We're still paying for them today, and we're gonna pay them for a long time. The 2015 Balance sheet and Balance sheet reflect the inability to achieve the objectives set, reflect the inability to comply with the current legislative framework. The fact that these debates are being debated today with so much delay in this House actually illustrates the inability to respond not to both the letter and the spirit of the Rules of Procedure of the House. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Because, although one year is foreseen, plus one year to have these debates, we know that they could have been a long time ago. We also heard the President of the Court of Auditors tell us that the report for 2016 is ready, so, Minister, we expect to see it here as early as possible and discuss it, without expecting the two years to be completed again. I would also like to urge the Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u11	Mr. Fortsakis, excuse me, but I can't give you any more tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u12	Mr. President, I'll take secondary...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u13	You've doubled the time. Please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u14	I'll be in ten seconds. I would like to close by urging the Minister to respect the Rules of Procedure and the other obligations laid down for the implementation of the budget and, in particular, for the quarterly briefing of the House. The 2015 balance sheet and balance sheet strongly reflect the government's long-term inability to put order on the economy and put it in a year of growth, and for these reasons we will vote against. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u15	You covered your dentistry. It closes the list of rapporteurs and we continue with the special speaker from the Democratic Association, Mr Giannis Koutsoukos. Come on, Mr. Koutsouko, you have the floor, with your relative tolerance, as long as you don't have time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the 2015 budget coincides with the tabling of the 2018 budget, a budget which, apparently, is on the same path as overtaxation and cuts in achieving an excessive GDP surplus target of over 3.8 billion, with over 7 billion, with over-optimistic and over-optimistic growth considerations. It is on the same road in 2017, which, although the government's estimates of growth were disproved with less than 1.1% of the target, i.e. 1.6 instead of 2.7 billion, achieved a corresponding increase in the surplus, putting the main income and social benefits on the increase. And it is clear that the new tax measures of 2018, i.e. the new taxes and cuts, together with the cumulative measures of the third memorandum, will hit the wide folk layers by increasing taxes, cutting allowances to the weakest, such as EASA, heating oil and so on. And, of course, they undermine the Aegean islands, which are plagued by the migratory crisis, by the loss of the 'advantage' of reduced 30% VAT. On this dead-end road that the government is walking, let me say as a personal estimate that this budget will be the last of SYRIZA and ANELs and in committee on Thursday I will explain it to you...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u17	You can explain how it's going to happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u18	How's it going to happen? Of course it will, Mr. Mada. Because the looting of Mr. Katrugalos' personal difference will transfer it to Mr. Mitsotakis, you will not get it on your back. But I'll see you in the committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u19	We could transfer it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u20	Will you explain how it's going to happen?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u21	Leave this for Thursday. Easy, Mr. Mada.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u22	Mr. Madash asked me. I kept it for Thursday. I now come to the 2015 report. The 2015 report, ladies and gentlemen, also has another peculiarity. It is the account of a parliamentary period which cannot be classified as a normal parliamentary term. Because - I remind you - we had two elections and a referendum. How did these two elections come about and this referendum? They came out because there was a political choice of the party that became a majority to overthrow a course of the country, which accumulated the sacrifices and labors of the Greek people and transferred them to a course of exit from the memoranda and which was recorded by the end of 2014 with a greedy growth and a reduction of deficits. These are reflected in the explanatory reports on the budgets you draw up and in the forecasts of the international organisations. This overthrow, ladies and gentlemen, has put the country on adventures. Why do you often tell us: 'But did we destroy the country?' No, of course, but you destroyed the hopes and efforts of the Greek people that had accumulated in the course that had been capitalised by 2014. I would remind you that we started it, having vis-à-vis all of us, and in 2012 New Democracy and DIMAR joined. Of course, you are open supporters of this strategy now and we are negotiating without resistance. This overthrow of expectations and planning for the country resulted in the exit plan overthrowing in 2015. Since yesterday's debate with Mr Tsakalotos I have kept something and said that we will continue today. I would like to say, therefore, that the precautionary credit line was one of us guaranteed with the EUR 11 billion that the CFSF had, so that the country would safely come out of the market. We negotiate with the famous mail Hardouvelis measures of about EUR 900 million, which could have been done through the negotiation of more than that. But we did not have an increase in duty, ladies and gentlemen. They had no pension cut. They didn't have team redundancies. They did not have all that we had after the third memorandum of EUR 12.5 billion and the fourth Memorandum of EUR 4.9 billion. That's the answer to Mr. Tsakaloto. And, of course, Mr Tsakalotos and the Government - because I do not think it is a personal theory - cannot blame us, for example, for not taking Mr Kouvelis' President when they said that even Mr Tsipras would support him, they would not vote for him, to go to elections. They said the same to the lenders: "Leave them, you will be accounted for." Ladies and gentlemen, through the adventure of Mr Varoufakis' murders, we have reached the well-known referendum, which Mr Varoufakis said, entered the Mansion of Maximos and saw dejection when this overwhelming 'OH' came out. Because many were looking forward to becoming a jerk with the consent of the Greek people. They did it on their own and they signed on their own, and when the political leaders, in the presidential palace, told Mr. Tsipras that you had a vast majority with the support of the anti-population parties, to draw up a three-year roadmap of exiting the memorandum, Mr. Tsipras was working and appealing to the polls to clear his internal front. Of course, there was a course which we had anticipated and led to the fourth Memorandum. Now you have shaped the record of the clean exit, which I have predicted will have the same fate that your entire policy has had so far. Are all these taken into account, ladies and gentlemen, in the accounts? So read the Court of Auditors' report to see how they are reflected. They are first reflected - first by the overthrow of growth rates, from 2.9% to -3% in 2015, in the reduction of revenues. See page 33 of the Court of Auditors report, where the central government deficit was EUR 4,063 billion compared with EUR 233 million. Of course you can see your own draft budget report for 2016. Because many times when I talk and present numbers, some of you are displeased. This report, ladies and gentlemen, says that + 0.3% on the basis of the terms of the financial facility agreement, because this is how our partners account for it, has become 0.00%. Where else is it, ladies and gentlemen, what happened in 2015? It shall be reflected in the increase in credit and credit costs. What's that? It is short-term borrowing, during which the process with our European partners was not closed and which has accumulated costs, because it has excessive interest. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Where else is it imprinted, besides delivering the 11 billion dollars? It's imprinted on the loss of ANFAs. The Court of Auditors' report says so. I asked the President of the Court of Auditors if he had the right of a Minister to sign and lose revenue. Doesn't he have any responsibility? Wherever you want us to look, I don't want to take advantage of the time. I don't want to break time. See the Court of Auditors' observations on the increase in due amount, their comments on capital controls and the lack of liquidity. I will not take you to Mr Regling, who spoke of 100 billion losses or the Lisbon Institute, which spoke of 86 billion losses in the Greek economy. I will take you to what the Supreme Economic Court expresses in his report as the cost of the Greek economy. This cost, ladies and gentlemen, we have accumulated it after the 2016, 2017, 2018 budget, and we pay it with the surpluses, which are based on over-taxation and cuts. Because the development scenario was ruined. Now we are relying on pure growth. It turns out that, unfortunately, these expectations are very optimistic, as the Financial Council expresses in its report on the budget for 2018. So you don't tell me that I'm saying this from my head and I haven't been able to read the budget. Read the report of the Financial Council. To finish this management of 2015, which had all these negative effects, we are obviously not going to vote on it. Please bring the management of 2016 to the plenary, because, as I have heard, the Minister has tabled it. I say this so that the debate on topical and urgent subjects of major importance may also make sense. Because what we are talking about now has reasons only to do with historical truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that they are attending our meeting from the top Western theory, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and how forty-six students and students and three trainers from Velestino Magnesia High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We proceed with the special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Mr. Evangelos Karakostas.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u24	The ratification of the 2015 State Accounting and Balance sheet comes at a time when the Tsipra Kammenos Memorandum of Understanding is desperately attempting to develop a success story of its economic policy, which, he claims, will result in the exit from the Memorandums in August 2018. After last year's craving where the SYRIZA-ANEL conflict was forced to ratify the 2014 state account and balance sheet, the New Democracy - PASOK Memorandum, namely, is now being called to defend its own economic crimes, which led to the resolution of the third memorandum in August 2015, which should be recalled, that they voted together with the other forces of the republic, namely New Democracy, PASOK and Potami. And it is very happy that the Greek people can compare the then blatant promises of the political fraudsters SYRIZA and ANEL, in relation to what they have finally done and then draw useful conclusions about what they now promise and make, compared to what they will finally do in the period around the summer to the summer, that is, 2018. Golden Dawn, as it denounced the criminal economic practices of the years 2012-2015 of the Samara - Venizelos coexistence, which led to an even greater stagnation of the Greek economy, impoverishing a large part of the Greek people for the benefit of creditors, so will it do for the corresponding economic problems of the Tsipras - Kammenos coexistence, which, rather than continuing, at a more intensive rate, the destruction of every production structure, the sale of national infrastructures, the impoverishment of almost half of the Greek households, which are currently at 48% according to scientific research, faced with poverty and the resulting social exclusion. So, let's see what those who, before the January 2015 elections, broke their clothes on the upcoming sketch of the memorials or a more refined political phrase, would abolish the memorials with a law and an article or even more embodied would bore the bullies and the markets would dance. Instead of dancing the markets, the Greek people became the victim of a government tax dance, by imposing numerous tough measures which hit all taxpayers and businesses. And what is the reaction to the enormous sacrifices made by households and businesses? The measures taken in 2015 resulted in an increase in revenue for that year by only 0,08% compared to 2014. In particular, 39 million euros have been invaded by state funds since 2014. From a hundred and thirty-six revenues as well as from the receipts from the customs offices of the country, revenues in 2015 amounted to EUR 46,414 billion, with the corresponding receipts of 2014 being at EUR 46,375 billion. At this point, emphasis should be placed on the fact that economic sizes would be even more devastating if the Ministry of Finance had moved on to tax refunds provided for in the budget. But 449 million euros were returned less. The increase in revenue, in addition, is substantial, taking into account that tough measures were imposed in the second half of 2015 and in some cases with retroactive effect. The most indicative examples are: Changes in VAT rates that have led to revalorisations of most types of food, in prepared meals served by mass catering shops, in commuting tickets, in taxiers and in many other products and services, in the abolition of a 30% discount on six islands, in an increase in the special solidarity levy for employees and pensioners with incomes of more than EUR 30 000, in an increase in income tax advance from 27.5% to 55% for farmers retrospectively for the year 2014, in an increase in income tax advance from 80% to 100% for businesses retrospectively from the year 2014, in a 50% reduction in the refund of excise duty on oil, diesel, used by farmers, 50% of the heating allowance for households. Since then, it has been distinguished by anyone who is not dependent on foreign interests, that the imposition of new - and many times unfair - taxes have led to the deterioration of the Greek economy and economic suffocation by households. The new taxes, however they are imposed, are difficult to differentiate, at least, on the part of the budget. In simple and understandable words, the state's revenues remain stable. However, there is a spectacular change, which relates to dues, since taxpayers are unable to meet their custodial financial obligations. Current debts have reached EUR 84 billion, while, as evidenced by the figures, households and businesses leave unpaid taxes of EUR 1 billion on average. The Chief of the Golden Dawn had warned of the deadlock of your anti-popular policy. "Well, if you had been taken in spite of the unfamiliar" he had told you in here, but no government ears were founded, because simply the purpose of the present government, like those that preceded it, was not to serve the interests of the Greek people but to serve the interests of your lenders. The Left Government, which has been speaking with enthusiasm for economic policy in a social context, not only did it not take into account clear social messages in order to limit its tactics but instead launched a new attack on the middle, mainly, order, imposing a series of new bloody measures in 2016. I shall mention a few more important works on the day of the Tsipra - Kammenos coup d'état. Reductions, in accordance with Law No.4336/2015, in main and ancillary pensions through the increase in EOPY contributions to main pensions and the imposition of a contribution to ancillary pensions. In particular, the contributions increased by two points, 6% from 4% to the main pensions before the cuts started in 2010. A contribution of 6% was imposed on subsidiary companies after cutbacks. The supplementary, of course, also required a health contribution in the cases of a second subsidiary, as well as in the cases of an ancillary person given as a result of death. CSR was abolished for a hundred and fifty-eight thousand low pensioners and the provision will be phased out by 2020 for three hundred, seventy thousand low pensioners. With regard to the State's 2015 balance sheet, we highlight the following indicative issues. As far as the assets are concerned, the non-compliance of the state's standings and much more its transfer to the new superstition, without any historical cost records in many cases of the assets of the state, proves the anti-national - and for that reason criminal - of the actions of your Government. In simple terms, the state does not know the value of its assets and at the same time abolishes the institution of the Oath Corps. It is therefore clear that the image of the asset with regard to fixed assets is improper and misleading. It is not calculated at the level of the insecure claims, with what this implies for the actual image of the assets. Significantly, only 3% of the state's requirements have been collected from overdue citizens' overdue obligations. It is therefore a presumption that the citizens have no confidence in the state, which, through his avengerous tax policy, leads the Greeks to tax evasion, at a time when this is done not only by fraud, but by the overwhelming majority of Greeks in the form of forced tactical survival. As far as passiveness is concerned, it is clear that the most important obligation is public debt. Its marginal reduction does not mean anything special, since there is an increase in securities with a repurchase agreement of 1,390,000, with increased interest rates of 2,76%. The composition of the Greek debt also relates to 68.6% of debts to European Union countries and to the International Monetary Fund. In conclusion, we quoted only a part of the financial data that no one can question and which certify that in 2015, in the year 2015, the junta Samara - Venizelos simply handed over the memorial sketches to the red junta Tsipras - Kammenos, so that the latter continues its anti-national and destructive work, always according to the orders of the strangers. For us nationalists, things are clear: no tolerance to the Tsipras Memorial Junta - Kammenos, which we are struggling to crush and crush. Golden Dawn votes against the 2015 balance sheet and balance sheet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u25	Mr. Kammenos has informed us that he is on his way today because the roads are in traffic congestion. He'll be here. I call on Mr Giorgos Katsiantonis, a special speaker of the Centroon Association. The next speaker will be Mr George Amyras. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2015 budget that we are called upon to vote on today is in all respects the budget that has broken down and troubled the Greek economy. It is a budget - a mixture of budget deficits and dystomia on the part of the government and the then leadership of its financial staff. Finally, as we all know, it has led to an unprecedented economic recession, the results of which we are still paying for, and unfortunately many generations still will pay in the future. It is the budget of the year that has brought about the catastrophic negotiation, which has ultimately cost our economy about EUR 100 billion and has been the stronghold of the third memorandum with measures of over EUR 7.5 billion. All the above, together with measures of ambiguous effect, flexible taxation and recession, have ultimately led to the departure of hundreds of thousands of our compatriots abroad. The worst of all is that many of the measures that came at that time were actually unable to implement, which led to the well-known delay in the evaluation of the programme a year later, in October 2016, which we delayed by additional EUR 9.4 billion. The reason I make this reference is to stress that, on the one hand and next year, we will obviously see one of the same ones, on the other, that in the next year, we will always see the same things again, since these have been repeated in the second evaluation, which, as we know, closed with an additional year of delay in June 2017, with a cherry on the cake of EUR 5.1 billion. It is obvious, therefore, that 2015 will remain engraved in the political and economic history of Greece. How to bring to mind the outcome of this policy remains history itself to show it. This year was disastrous not only in economic terms, but also in terms of diplomacy and generally policy. As regards the latter, I would refer to the many reports by government officials that they were simply inexperienced and that is why mistakes have been made. I shall also say that no single or infallible, as mistakes are for those who work, but only if they recognize them. I do not deny understanding, as long as it is accompanied by attempts to correct errors. Efforts are made when proven where no one can, calls for consultation and synergy with all the political forces of the country. This, unfortunately, has not proved to be the case, and today you are still avoiding the substance of calling on all the pro-European parties in the country on the same table so that we can all fight the way out of the crisis together. As I speak about errors, I would like to emphasise something that I regard as generally wrong tactics. To avoid misunderstanding, it is not just about the current government, but also about all previous governments. I have seen that many Members of today's Com mittee on Civil Liberties have referred to the same issue. It is about the great delay that has occurred in relation to what we are discussing today at the end of the year 2017 on what happened in 2015. I think it is necessary to improve general parliamentary control and related work that discussions on such issues should be concluded as soon as possible. This will help to draw meaningful and useful conclusions, which will lead to better policies in all respects. Continuing with the divergences and atypicalities in relation to the 2015 budget targets and in relation to 2014, we see that, among other things, the revenues from privatizations involving real estate sales, the repayments from the central banks of the Eurozone, which have deprived the profits of Greek government bonds on the grounds that the fifth assessment of the Greek economy's adjustment program, the income tax on natural and legal persons, the participation in the profits of companies and, finally, VAT on petroleum products, etc. It is worth noting that the deviation from the initial estimates occurred mainly due to the negative climate and economic recession of the Greek economy. For another year, we have a nominal GDP reduction compared with 2014, which is 0.9%. Revenue from immovable property privatization amounted to 1.14% of the target. For another year, we see that EUR 1.23 has been paid for indirect taxes for each euro. The balance receivable is increased due to the low collection of direct and indirect taxes of years, fines, financial penalties, etc., i.e. the ineffectiveness of the method of adjusting old debts, combined with the introduction of new categories of taxes. As to the inability to collect for the year 2015, fines of approximately EUR 29 billion have been established, of which EUR 26 billion has come from time to time. Of the 29 billion about EUR 110 million, around EUR 50 million were collected. Of these EUR 29 billion, approximately EUR 4 billion relate to claims for the years 1976-2005, while the remaining EUR 25 billion is for the years 2006-2015. Of a set of certified persons, 35.66 % relates to fines to natural persons and 55.28 % to SG and EIA. In short, it is apparent that the questionable collection of a large part of those debts is not in line with the principles of sound management, as it gives a completely distorting picture of its financial size. Provision should be made for impairment of the relevant requirements. Instead of that, however, all we see is the inability to determine the uncertainties. We also note once again that the budgetary obligation to establish a register of fixed assets is not fulfilled in order to determine the correct financial position of the central administration. This omission leads to a breach of the basic accounting principles in d.o.b.15/2011. The consequence of this violating tactic is that they were transferred without consideration by the Body of Observers, public property to the GOI, and in the end we will not know whether or not we will have profits or losses from this transaction. We also have the same problem with the absence of registration of immobilisation accounts in the performance of the costs of the projects being constructed, which are implemented either at the cost of the Public Investment Programme or at the cost of the ordinary budget or from other sources of funding. As I mentioned expenditure, their growth in 2015 also brought about a sharp increase in the country's lending. In particular, for 2015, the loan reached EUR 55 billion. It is, at least, disappointing that we have almost three-fold borrowings of GDP. At the same time, the only solution to this issue is to reduce public debt and increase GDP accordingly. Unfortunately, we also have a negative result with regard to net cash flow from financial activities, which reaches EUR 1.9 billion in relation to the 2014 surplus, amounting to EUR 2.5 billion, which means deficit management, i.e. increased borrowing or indebtedness of assets. Unfortunately, all the evidence suggests that the bounty of growth has lost the way to Greece at least for 2015, while the negative results have been reinforced by overtaxation. And as if the 2015 example is not enough, even for this year the estimate for our country's development from 2.1% anticipated, has unfortunately fallen to 1.6%.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u27	Mr. Katsiantoni, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u28	I'll be back in a minute, Mr. President. Thank you for your tolerance. I hope that the data will disprove what is being written in the last few days and see real exit data and wish all of this 2015 data we will not be able to discuss again in the next few years. To close with a thought optimistic, as far as I may, I would like to tell you, gentlemen of the government, that it is never too late. Where you cannot either lift the burdens yourself or manage the partners, just ask for help. We're all here for the public good, for the good of our country. Mr President, thank you for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that a colleague, Mr Beyalas, has been registered. I would ask that it be notified, in order to give him the floor immediately after Mr Amyras, to continue with the Minister and Parliamentary Representatives and to close down. Mr. Amyras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said during our committee meeting, much can be said for 2015, but four are the main steps, the characteristics, the marks of 2015. The first was the recession, the second Varoufakis, the third was the capital control and the fourth was the grand Memorandum of Tsipras - Kammenos. These are the evidence. What should we now sit down and analyse numbers and data? However, since we need to analyse numbers and data, listen to some data for 2015. These are elements of a report by EUROSTAT, which we also see in a similar report by the Union for Poverty in Greece and, above all, in its most vulnerable population, children. It is therefore an investigation that recorded Greece in the first place of the proportion of children at risk of poverty and social exclusion between 2010 and 2016, with the means available in 2016. What do we see here? We see that in Greece one out of two children lives in conditions of material deprivation and one out of four children lives in extreme deprivation, extreme poverty. These are the elements that I think should be bored like bells in our ears more than any other balance, balance sheet, budget 2015. Greece, according to EUROSTAT, for this period of time I told you, 2010 to 2016, has recorded the highest increase in the percentage of children at risk of poverty and the terrible situation is that we are taking first place in the Eurozone. Greater percentages than we only have Romania and Bulgaria, but these are going down, while in the Greek case they remain stable, in 45.6% of the children, the Greeks, that is, one out of two children are in the margin of poverty. These are the elements that I want to hear today from the Step of the House on our side. If someone says the future is coming, let's see what's going to happen in less than a month and a half from now on, that is, since the New Year of 2018. Hundreds of thousands of low pensioners say good-bye to the CSCE they received. Two hundred thousand young underretired people who had applied until May 2016 lose what CSCE could have received, because by the end of 2019 this is evaporating. Since the New Year of 2018, we have increased insurance contributions with the re-budget. Since the New Year of 2018, we have had a knife in the luxury benefits. Since the New Year of 2018, a million real estate owners will “pay” the adjustment of the objective values. Since the New Year of 2018, that is, in one and a half months from now, thirty-two islands have ceased to have the special scheme of 30% VAT reduction. Since the New Year of 2018, that is, in a month and a half from now, the government has cut off the heating allowance by 50%. Do you remember the spoon stories? Do you remember what a bib, what a opposition SYRIZA did then? Now they're cutting off the heating allowance and no nose opens! That's one of them. From New Year's 2018 all hotels, all rented rooms - their client and by extension - will be less competitive in similar packages of 0.5 to 4 euros at night. Charits in tourism! Easy, from New Year's - now - someone will come out of the setting of hundreds of doses. An hour before the deadline passes, the system throws him out. And of course, I won't talk about what's waiting for the employees and the retired. Ladies and gentlemen, I have said a lot to you that could be said about the financial figures for 2015. For me, the main content of the year is that we have paid and paid very dearly for experimentation, the inability of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. Unfortunately, he took vital time from the country, oxygen from the citizens, removed healthy forces, which could, not only return to Greece, but also magnify. I am thinking above all of the half a million young people who are abroad working or studying. In any case, we have paid and paid for the country's genuinely unacceptable administration by SYRIZA - ANEL through the Memorandum of Tsipras - in any case. We are voting against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u31	I am thinking of taking it as follows: I will call on the Step - he is a speaker - Mr Beyala and we are closing. The Minister informed me that he wanted to hear both the parliamentarians and answer to the end. This, of course, means that both the rapporteurs and the parliamentarians have a right of dentistry, so we can move on. Mr. Beyala, you have the floor for five minutes, with your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u32	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are clearly discussing the 2015 balance sheet and balance sheet about two years later. Indeed, Mr President, I think that the issue should also be raised with the representatives of the parties and with the Conference of Presidents. Perhaps the Rules of Procedure should change and be within the years. Last week we discussed in the committee on the 2015 balance sheet and for the first time we had the Court of Auditors' report, the President of the Court of Auditors told us that they already have ready for 2016, as the Minister told us here that he also submitted the results of 2016. So we need to speed up procedures, so that we can be a little more up-to-date, because I think that two years later, we are just repeating and not adding anything new. We have, of course, seen from the suggestions made by the anti-population rapporteurs that they were simply tired of dusting, to find what they said two years ago and repeat them today. They didn't do anything different. We see, however, that they have not been tired of saying the same thing for two years. But let me tell you something. Make a photocopy, because from much use and much repetition - apart from the fact that you yourself believe it - they will be so worn down as texts, that you will not make the letters of those texts either. However, you are also making us respond in the same way to repeat what we have given you an answer. You don't want to hear them, you don't hear them, you don't want to accept evidence. I reported to the committee and will say it again, for the third time in my speech, that the Executive Director of the International Monetary Fund in Greece, in February 2017, in an updated report he made, on page fifteen, states: “The original programme provided for sixteen quarterly reviews, of which only five were completed with significant delays, from March 2012 to June 2014.” He continues the author of the exhibition: “After June 2014, the project was derailed.” It's the success story, dear. Why don't you take it? After June, what happened? Why after June? Because it was immediately after the European elections, where, in view of your election - and not in your opinion - a collapse, you have given up. That's why you didn't close the fifth evaluation. That's why you didn't do anything. So when we were telling you about Hardouvelis mail, what it is and what it isn't, you told us it wasn't there. But now you remember it and you're talking about the mail Hardouvelis. What's this? It was your failed program. You couldn't get it done, and that's why you gave up, and that's why you announced two months before the election. Euclid Tsakalotus asked you why you did not do the fifth evaluation. Why didn't you do it? Because you couldn't do it. Because it wasn't coming out. Because the measures you would take, not only would it be the worst that could exist, but it was the complete disaster of the economy. I read from the report by the Executive Secretary of the International Monetary Fund itself in February 2017. He says: “After years of prolonged recession, the first signs of strong growth, falling unemployment and increasing confidence in the economy are beginning to appear and there are clear signs of climate change. With the economic programme of the European Stability Mechanism in the middle of the road, the Greek Government has made significant progress in implementing an ambitious and comprehensive reform programme, which will form the basis for a competitive economy in the coming years. The forecasts shall be significantly better than expected, the reform efforts shall bear fruit.’ These are said by those who have crowns on your head, you give them away every little bit and every bit, but they disguise what you say, as well as the catastrophe, which you show to us and the Greek people. Let's say one more thing. There was a post in my hands these days on a site - not very pro-Syriatic, otherwise one would say - and it speaks about the period 2000-2014. You're talking about overtax. Greece has received EUR 62,92 billion in the period 2010-2014. According to information presented by the Minister of Finance, Yiannis Stournaras, to the representatives of the foreign press - we are talking about 2014 about this presentation - in 2010 measures of EUR 10.07 billion were taken, but the primary deficit was reduced by EUR 13.3 billion. In 2012, EUR 11,53 billion was taken, but the deficit was only reduced by EUR 2 billion. It's the successful years you tell us here every day! Measures of EUR 10,22 billion were adopted in 2013, and the adjustment was EUR 3,6 billion. Finally, for 2014, EUR 3,86 billion is planned to increase the primary surplus by EUR 2,21 billion. And while you had budgeted a primary surplus of 1.5%, how much did you achieve? It was 0.3%. The discrepancy was at 1.2% of the budgets. I cannot - and I am closing down, Mr President - understand, Mr President-in-Office, the rapporteur for the Staff Regulations. In 2015 it was “years of burnt land”. Honestly it is an expression, which was called by those who succeeded an opposition. Let's say it in 2015, it would make sense. In 2023, when the next elections are to take place, and maybe you'll go out government, then say we handed you down on burnt land. Not now, however, as an Opposition, which you have destroyed this country with over-financed, with a 25% reduction in gross domestic product, with 27.8% youth unemployment, with the impoverishment of the world, saying that we were a burnt land in 2015. That's the way things are, and whether you like them or don't like them, citizens know them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u33	Hang up now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u34	And be sure that in next 2019, citizens will give an appropriate answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u35	The Ministers for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, Economics and Finance, as well as the Deputy Minister of Finance, submitted a draft law on 21-11-2017: "Renewing - Amendment to the Convention on the Special License of the exclusive right of the Greek State to access and use the nominal position of 39° east on the track of the artificial geostatic satellites of the Earth and its associated radio frequencies through the construction, launch, operation and commercial exploitation of a pan-Hellenic and cross-border satellite system under the name of: Hellas SAT (HELLAS SAT)". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. If I see one time title in a row, I'll have the Lycabet's cannons hit! Mr Loverdos has asked for the floor first and then any parliamentary representative wants to speak. I see Mr. Mada. Do you want in turn or do you want to close?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u36	Okay, we're a few.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u37	Okay. There's Mr. Karathanasopoulos. Mr. Loverdos has the floor for six minutes with the relative comfort.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u38	Thank you very much, Mr President. I hope I don't need it and finish early. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no lady in the Chamber - I do not believe that history teaches. This is not my scientific approach, but it is a human approach, if you like. If, however, I was pushed to say what can be considered a lesson from the spread of demagogy and populism, I would say that the repetitions of historical examples show - it is not a teaching, but in any case, if anyone is pressing to learn, demagogicism and populism - history has records of examples of demagogicism and populism, which were ultimately directed against them, which were supposedly to develop the arguments of demagogy and populism. 2015 is a very characteristic year, because it is a year in which, under the responsibility of the current government, two elections were held and a referendum. At the same time and at the same time, after the first elections, a government, the SYRIZA - ANEL, followed a policy of confrontation with the other governments of the European Union and the troika. And we all remember the wonderful words of Mr Tsipras and Mr Varoufakis at that time, the words that ultimately constituted acts, which brought the country to the edge of the cliff, with tragic consequences for the Greek economy, namely for society and the people. A bank system kneeled by the irresponsible bleeding of the deposits, a referendum - an illegal referendum in the sense of the illegal question position, incomprehensible, unclear, with the fate of it and we have discussed it many times - that led together with the leaking of the deposits into capital controls, a hit that has a very difficult period of overcoming and a very difficult period of return to economic normality. All this was done because the forces of populism and opportunism, led by the current Prime Minister, had fantasized various children, but also suspectedly about the versions of European and Greek reality. The responsibilities of the rulings on these issues are too great, they are enormous. The country was leading to growth. Together with Mr Juliarakis, we have discussed both the year 2013, balance sheet and the year 2014. It was confirmed for 2014 that 0.2% growth and with the modern elements of ELSTAT 0.7%, that is, while we calculated it at the same time, and at the same time a small deficit, because some TV colleagues are talking about deficit in 2014, lying. The Minister has accepted them with the accounts and accounts, accounting for revenue and expenditure which have been closed, that at that year we also had a small surplus of 0,2. That was the course that stopped, ladies and gentlemen of the majority. And we are talking today about what you have loaded on the economy, on society, on Greece, on the EUR 100 billion, which has been underlined not only by us, opposition, but also by various major European players. Do not behave, trying to transfer all responsibilities to Yiannis Varoufakis. He had capital responsibilities, but capital responsibilities he also had and the Prime Minister for all this course, and all the government officials and MPs who took over those choices. We all know about these responsibilities - some of you today are speaking - but the responsibilities have been recorded and the first to give them up is the people in the next elections. Why all together, SYRIZA and ANEL deepened the knife and stabbed the Greek economy, which means Greek society. So we close the 2015 balance sheet, so we close the balance sheet, the debt ratio with our country's assets. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, in my one minute, I want to make a reference to yesterday's debate. At the end of the debate the Minister of National Defence spoke and raised a number of issues. At the moment, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a very interesting European context for defence issues. The Treaty of Lisbon is being activated in relation to PESCO, that is to say with permanent structured cooperation. We are not talking about this, we are talking about Saudi Arabia. Here we have other issues. We have Ruvikon at the Department of National Defence, we have another agenda. And especially for Saudi Arabia - and that is what I will close - we do not blame. We ask the Minister of National Defense to tell the truth. Recognize his mistakes and renounce the mediator. Where did he find this middleman? Where did he find him? Renounce him. To explain exactly what has happened. We all know - and I close with it - that in June 2017 it was signed, while there were other information from our Embassy in Riyadh, a so-called transnational agreement. Signed a paper. We have all said that, we have also tabled the relevant documents clearly. I want to testify today and that is what I am closing down. Our ambassador, not the consul, on August 24, 2017, sends a telegram to the Minister of National Defence and Foreign Affairs and tells them that the regular Saudis are coming to Greece. If they do not inspect or sign a government agreement, there is no market. They buy. We get money from materials we don't need. The usual Saudis are coming to Greece - I have this telegram here - a meeting is held with the Ministry of National Defence - I submit the minutes of the meeting - and we are prosecuting them. We're kicking them out. The e-mails of this persecution, expulsion, I also submit them. We are kicking them out, so that the country loses 66m euros, because the main mediator was not served. A request to the Minister of National Defence and to those who support him. Not many people, but those who support him. The truth. The truth with a statement. They don't need much. The truth with a statement. It is a pity at this juncture, in these difficult circumstances, that we discuss a tragic middle-level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u39	Check it out.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u40	Mr. President, excuse me. There's here a sensitive detail I've notified since yesterday. I have informed the Bureau with my speech, but I did not get an answer. I've got two indiscreet documents, and I'm filing them. I would ask that they be distributed during the normal procedure. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Andreas Loverdos, submits to the Bureau of Parliament the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But I have three classified documents, and I'm not doing any press leaks. Of the committees of inquiry, there is a practice where classified documents, such as a list of taxiffs, were in a Chamber room, room 162, and any Member who wanted to see them visited. I have three classified documents, the telegram by Ambassador Polychronou, the decision by the KYSEA to become a transnational agreement - this had been said by Parliament, the Committee on Informatics - and the KYSEA's decision to sign an agreement and it also has the type of agreement signed with the chopper in Mikra, Thessaloniki - which is not, in other words, an transnational agreement. I shall put these before you, but with the responsibility of the Bureau, Mr President, not for distribution. These must be made available to the three hundred Members, but without further publicity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u41	As you know, Mr Loverdos, this procedure is not provided for by the President-in-Office to receive confidential documents.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u42	We've kept it, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u43	These should normally have been tabled, first of all, if they concern parliamentary control, at the Department of Parliament's Control...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u44	If you can, you can refer it back to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u45	...after what you said about office 162. Exceptionally, I don't receive it. I'm turning it right there. I don't monograph them. I'm telling you so we can be clear. Therefore, the Director-General of Legislation should come with a file to put it in and close it before colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how the House of Greeks organises, thirty-seven students and students and six trainers from the Municipal School of Agios Dimitrios Peta and the Municipal School of Neochori from Arta. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Teddy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there are no ladies, that was the address of Mr Loverdos before - we are debating today the report on the state of the financial year 2015 and the balance sheet of the State of the financial year 2015. Indeed, 2015 is not a common year. I think it was explained in a detailed and clear way by Professor Fortsakis. In 2015 it has elements of uniqueness in Greek history. It is a year that will be discussed, written many books about him, analysed, accounted for, there will be a wide-ranging political valuation. What is clear is that this year has been a year of great crisis and a year in which the Greek economy has suffered a great deal of damage. He suffered enormous damage to the banking system. They have suffered enormous damages each and every Greek citizen. I sincerely follow the sincere - if you like - painful effort by colleagues who support the government to prove what it is to understand. Are they trying to prove that 2015 was a good year for the Greek economy? Understanding what the main claim is. What does the Communism claim? Does he claim that in 2015, thanks to their own operations, some worse than others were avoided? What is the record of the government majority for 2015? Because there are specific data. In 2015 there are two elections, both victorious for the government. There is a referendum, a winner, too, triumphant for the government with 62%. There is a negotiation that is disastrous for the country and the economy. There is also the only post-war event, as far as I know, the closure of banks and their full repayment. Of this, how can the government account emerge and be supported about a successful year and even with philosophers against today's Opposition - government in 2014 - with hierarchies about where the conflict was driving the Greek economy, ignoring the thousands of numbers, that in 2014 it was closed with growth, that in 2015 it would have a significant growth of around 2.9% - instead of that, it was closed with recession - and in any case, with various others? I must say, however, that I read, of course, the suggestion in the report by the Committee of the President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Juliarakis, which has elements of modesty and pragmatism. It's limited to numbers. He doesn't make general designations. It doesn't make total aspirations. Perhaps behind the lines of his said words there is a feeling that we should come back to realism. I must say, of course, that I have been amazed because I am one of those who read what is going on and try to understand these years. Minister, it's very interesting how your former chief, Mr. Varoufakis, describes you. You will have read it, I am sure, even if you would not want anyone to remind you in this Chamber. In any case, the way in which he describes you raises many questions either for him or for you, of course, but it is not for both of you to be on the right side of the hill, it is for both of us to be on the right side of the national interest. One of the two is on the wrong side of the argument as a whole. Of course, this does not have any responsibility for you, because within you you claim that you are on the right side in the well-known saying: "The good portion has been elected." But ladies and gentlemen, there is a matter for the Prime Minister, because Mr Juliarakis can now say calm in him and he cannot express it outside him: 'I was right then'. However, the Prime Minister had both Mr Varoufakis and Mr Juliarakis. And if Mr. Juliarakis was right, Mr. Varoufakis was wrong. And when we say 'righteous', we do not mean simply rendering lawful and unjust a mere argument, but a negotiation that has led the country to the brink of destruction and brought enormous damage. Honestly, regardless of the winner for you and the winner of the referendum, the next crisis of the Greek people will come. Mr Colleague, do not dream of the decade that begins with "two" in front. You'll be done quickly. You will probably finish in 2018. Perhaps you can draw to the beginning of 2019. I wouldn't bet it. But in any case, you'll be drawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u47	Every three months, review!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u48	Mr. Beyla, take it easy, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u49	Already as a government drag. Since I was a little tsiglate, if you would like me to list your 'thriavos' in the last few months: you started with the 'thriambos' of Saronic pollution, you continued with the "thriampos" of the online ticket, you continued with the tours of Mr Koufantina's permits. You obviously have no responsibility for the floods in Attica, and, I imagine, two others have happened to you, three to help your strong image towards Greek society. Of course, the budget that we will begin to discuss tomorrow will help you to make a great deal of public service. It is certain that once you get out, the Greek people will bruise you when they realize what you are suggesting about the economic situation of 2018. Just to conclude, Minister, I said a few good words about your introduction here, which is registered. I love how you finish this report with a note of party patriotism. You say: 'The Left Government...'. To be honest, I do not place you too much on the Left as a general profile, but in any case, you feel the need to say something too. Mr Juliarakis says, ladies and gentlemen, 'The Left's Government was called upon to manage - here is why he has a sense of funnyness - as he always does at the most critical moments in history, with great, critical national problems.' I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, when you have been called upon to deal with any major national problem at the critical moments in our history. Because, as far as I remember, this is the first time you've been in the government and with all certainty I foresee you the last.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u50	The Houseary Representative for the Golden Dawn, Mr Pope Christos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u51	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u52	Mr. Pappa, I hope that what you said to do with humor. As a sense of humor, and I ask for my decision to be deleted from the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u53	Yes, Mr President, quite rightly, as a humor! You're absolutely right. And as a humor, do we have to take what Mr. Dendias said earlier? Because in an atmosphere of pheasyness Mr. Dendias told us that we are dealing with an officer's opposition party, which cannot or does not want to deal with SYRIZA and the parliamentary representative's own mouth we hear the elections will go at the end of 2018 or early 2019. So very much cohesion in the New Democracy! The dolphin, Mr. Dendias, wants time. That's what he told us now and a lot of other things. I would like to say to you Syrians what the evangelizer had written: "And before a dilemma you speak three times, a denial of me." It ended last night the fairy tale of SYRIZA's so-called philosophical policy. One day he kept that story. The new Memorandum of Understanding, ladies and gentlemen, with new bloody measures, has been tabled with EUR 2.5 billion. After sharing the so-called "social dividend" on a recital on a left-hand hypocrisy - as you called it - with it being involved in provoking all the channels, bring the next day from the back door new heavy measures that will hit the Greek people multiple times, 2,5 billion meters. People listen to it: It's 1.4% of gross national product. We have tax increases, reductions in the CSCE, as others have said before, reduce the deduction of medical expenses, increase in insurance contributions for freelance professionals. You've practically abolished this breath of a hundred doses. You're reducing the heating allowance. There are new reductions in wages and pensions and you are also abolishing ethnic benefits and for reasons not only of reduced VAT on the islands. It is therefore easily understood that you have shown and shown a deepest hypocrisy about the sharing of a few million, which in addition, in addition, in order not to be foolish, to speak truths, will be confined primarily to illegal immigrants. If an undignified Greek has a cracked cottage or a house in danger of being taken by the bank or of confiscating it, the tax office is not entitled to the social dividend. And it comes at this juncture today to confirm to us the bad guys, fascists, the Bertelsmann Stiftung Foundation, which says the worst about Greece. It says that worse than Greece is Bulgaria and Romania on the issue of poverty. It notes the improvement of'social justice' in Europe, but Greece is in the five worst countries. There are children living in conditions of severe tolerance, who have no heating, who do not have regular meals, which they need. This is the reality, which the government artificially, in close cooperation with the media, wants to hide under the carpet. So these children have more than doubled since 2008 and have unfortunately reached 26.7%, as the Foundation tells us, which also says that 52% of the working population of the working population capable of working is the largest in Europe. As far as getting out of this position is concerned, it is certain, gentlemen of the Left - I address you, to those who are literally born in your chairs - that our country, the grieving Greek people, the unfortunate Greek people of the memoranda, will not see a white day with the memorials. Can't you see you're taking the country to the rocks? Can't you see you're ruining the country? Yeah, you're ruining the country! Don't you have one bit of reason left? Is power so sweet? Is the chair so sweet? It's time to make policies, turn this group, the left student of the coup, the group of conquests, into a real national government, which will demand in Europe the laws of Greece, which will finally tear the memorials apart. Constitutionalists here will tell us that the Constitution tells us about these politicians and parties - and there is an article in the Constitution - that others wear and do. And within all of this we have the persecutions, the mud, the silence about the Golden Dawn. And I'm sending you a news in which the news reports will not be mentioned today, it's not going to work. I read: "The weapons of the Golden Dawn: The formal acquittal of a competitor" - Chrysangygite, i.e. - "found indicted for possession of a plastic weapon for children". He's been in court. There's his name on the internet. Our competitor Golden Earp, young boy, lad, with a Greek soul, was found indicted. Following the construction and persecution of the leaving Parliamentary Representative of New Democracy, he was also found wrapped in a glue for the supposedly arsenal of the Golden Dawn. And yesterday, by way of summary procedures, the judges, of course, acquitted that competitor. The plastic game, which Dendias baptized "dangerous criminal organization weapon" proved in court it was a construction, another construction against the Golden Dawn. That news you're shaking. Get the plastic gun of the "criminal organization" to exist in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above photograph, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Finally, Mr President - and I shall end by taking my second-guess - as far as the balance sheet is concerned in 2015, namely the policy of poverty, when you so-called left have taken over from the so-called right, it is intensified from 2015 until today. Do not expect us to vote on budgets, balance sheets and accounts that are only to prove to your partners in Europe, namely the loan sharks, that you have a quarrel among you who will be the best, which of you two who are the same - in the memorandum bow you are - will be Merkel's best servant. So of course we are not signing any balance sheets. Be sure when God gives and there is a national government, a government of the Golden Dawn, a government of national and folk at the same time, the responsibilities will be attributed to all those who have led and led our country to the destruction and you will also get your share of responsibility and you will pay for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u54	Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Karathanasopoulos, has the floor for six minutes in the relative comfort. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr President. I should like to state right from the outset that the Communist Party of Greece is voting against both the state balance sheet for the financial year 2015 and the State balance sheet for the same year. We are voting consistently on and because we had voted against the 2015 budget at the time in December 2014. We vote against why ‘no’ captures the actual figures for the 2015 financial year. What's the interesting part? The uniqueness, as the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative has said, regarding the implementation of the budget 2015. The only thing is neither that the Left has come to the government for the first time, nor whether or not tough negotiations have been held in the referendum. The uniqueness and interest, which we have to draw as a conclusion, is exactly what it says anger and our people 'the state keeps going'. The 2015 state budget was drafted and voted on by the New Democracy - PASOK, but it was executed and implemented by SYRIZA - ANEL co-government, without any reform, no adjustments, no corrections. As the previous government has voted, the next government has applied. The state budget is not just a law. It is precisely the key instrument for implementing economic policy for 2015. What New Democracy and PASOK designed to do was implemented by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, with the result that, in practice, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government was also the follower of the policy of the previous governments, which was intended to complete the work left unfinished by the previous governments. This work was set with the third memorandum, which came out after this tough negotiation and referendum. And the third memorandum passed both the parties of the government, SYRIZA and ANELs, as well as the New Democracy, PASOK and Potami. Thus, the revenues from the State budget of 2015 were related to a new tax raid against the people, the working class, with reductions in pensions and social benefits. And, of course, in order to fulfil the state budget of 2015, additional anti-grass measures were adopted, which were also the prerequisites for the adoption of the third memorandum. Thus, on the one hand, the policy of fiscal consolidation has continued against the people, which has brought new burdens on the people's backs and, on the other hand, has continued a series of reforms - which have made it easier for capitalist enterprises and monopolistic groups to act even more effectively, to overturn the labour market by further liberalising and abolishing any insurance and labour rights. The insurance under the Katrugalo law, which essentially abolished social security, has accelerated the process of further liberalisation of the market through the implementation of the OECD toolbox, accelerated privatisation. From this point of view, therefore, it is clear that the class orientation of the policy followed in 2015, but also in the coming years, as will be followed by the State budget of 2018. Because, of course, it can be in the explanatory note signed by Mr Tsakalotos and Mr Juliarakis to say that it is the budget that leads us out of the memoranda, but this cannot be seen as a wish. And it cannot be considered and understood even as a wish in that you have already voted for new measures for 2019, which may come sooner. It remains open with the pension reductions. You have voted for new measures for 2020, with a further reduction in duty. Because, of course, you have accepted as a government at the recent completion of the second assessment that the primary surpluses must go up to 2060 and at least 2%. For you, of course, have accepted, as a government and as members of the Eurozone, the single European economic governance, which imposes on Member States - the Euro-area surplus budgets - the automatic cut-off, when budget targets are not implemented, is imposing six-monthly controls. And because, of course, all the laws that were passed at the time of the memoranda, the memorial laws, will not cease to exist, even if the programme expires in August 2018, but will continue to mark the lives of the working class and the rest of the people's classes. Thus, the State Budget for 2018 is moving in the same folded, burdens on the people and through taxation, increase from revenue to natural persons, increase from indirect taxes, abolishing VAT, abolishing CSR, reducing funding for social expenditure. The conclusion or rather, the conclusions - and I conclude with this - are as follows: Firstly, the bourgeois state and its institutions are the depositary and defender of the interests of capitalist enterprises, of monopolistic groups, all shields the power of the bourgeoisie. It doesn't change, it doesn't reform. The civil state and its institutions are being abolished. Secondly, it is not just a government change to change the position of workers and the people in order to improve their position. On the contrary, government changes have been seen and we will see in the future. The position of the people's strata will not, however, be improved, deteriorated, with an indicator of the objective potential available, in order to meet its needs and the development of productive forces. Thirdly, we must restrain: the sacrifices of the people on the altar of competitiveness and capitalist profitability do not have an end date and will continue. Fourthly, any difference in the mix of policy pursued does not adversely affect the anti-grassian and class mark of this policy. It just changes the way, changes the means by which workers and the people will lose. That is to say, what we say about redistributing wealth, from many to few, at the expense of many and for the benefit of a few. And the last conclusion - and I shall conclude with that, Mr President - is this: Improving the position of the working class and the rest of the people's populations can only be there if we conflict with this policy, with the policy being pursued, regardless of what the government is, if we conflict with the policy of the European Union, with the interests of the monopolistic groups. The way out lies in overthrowing, changing power, a power that will shape new institutions that will serve labour power, labour participation and labour control and will organise the economy in a different way, where at the heart of the organization of the economy it will be the satisfaction of people's needs and not the capitalist centre, with the socialisation of production instruments, the central scientific design, the release of imperialist institutions and organisations, such as the European Union. Of course, the wheel of the economy and society must have it in its hands. This is the only way out. In this way we call on the people to keep up with the JRC. In conclusion, Mr President, we stress our intention to vote against the 2015 balance sheet and balance sheet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u56	Mr. Christos Mandas has the floor. Then there's Mr. Papachristopoulos. And the turn of the Parliamentary Representatives is closed with Mr Dimitris Kavalellas, who changed Mr Megamoumustakas. Here, Mr. Mada, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u57	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the first point I wish to raise is this: Mr Juliarakis said in November 2016, speaking of the procedure for adopting budgets and balance sheets for 2014: ‘Approval of the balance sheet - accountability means the following. It means ratification of public finances by the Greek Parliament. It means, if you like, an agreement on the main economic sizes of 2014 and nothing more.” I say this because it is a first point that we need to reach agreement. When we vote positively or vote negatively on balance sheet and balance sheet issues, we cannot do this in line with various reports that have nothing to do with this particular particular. In other words, it is as if you say that those who are voting against the balance sheet and the balance sheet are not those elements. I don't think anyone seriously claims that. In this sense I really do not understand the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u58	Mr. Mada!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u59	Just a minute, Mr. Kutsuko.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u60	When you voted against, that's why you did it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u61	Wait. I'll explain. I don't understand the attitude of prudent opposition. I would remind you that we voted for the 2014 balance sheet. This phrase I read to you concerned a conflict at the time - I do not know if, Minister, at the end of the day, it came to the statement by Mr Amyras you requested - who were accused of having voted and supported the Samara - Venizelos measures at the time. So I remind you of this in order to come to an agreement. The second point I wish to make is this: I tried to say it in yesterday's debate. In this Chamber for our debate to have a value, we need to consult on a number of key issues, basic sizes, I would say. The interpretations or controversies are, of course, welcome. It is about the ideological and political perspective that everyone sees. However, what continues to happen in Parliament - at least what I and many other colleagues live - is a controversy on issues that have already been answered on several occasions, I think that there is a need for consultation, even without publicity. For example, it comes up and comes back to the point that SYRIZA's governance has cost 100 billion euros. This has been responded in a particular way, not once, but repeatedly. It cannot, therefore, be re-examined following these replies, which I think were very much substantiated and essentially related to the fact that this was a size which was linked to the refinancing, on much more favourable terms, of our country's loans. Unless you forget that through the negotiation process in 2015, we had a result, which was 20 billion less than in relation to the primary surpluses that you had already agreed, with those heights of development that you calculated in this period, before the takeover of governance by SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks. If this is the case - I have said one, two examples - we do not agree, we cannot try to have any further debate. In other words, it is a barren process that is constantly repeated, but constantly. So somewhere we have to end up. Again, interpretations may be completely contradictory, differently, one, the other, but I do not think this debate is fruitful and does not offer anything essential to the parliamentary procedure. Thirdly, and I shall close, Mr President, to be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u62	Don't be nervous. You will also have the tolerance of the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u63	Okay. I want to be brief, because I think we need to finish. It offers us this distance - because we are now close to the start of 2018 - the opportunity to see with one, if you want, a more calm look at the events of 2015 and the narratives around the events of 2015. For I repeat, I think that the facts cannot easily dispute them. How these facts are described and narrated, from what perspective, of course there are many different perspectives there. And I say: we have a very specific perspective for that period. We have captured and valued it in many texts, in public accounts, etc. The core of the question, and what continues to take place in this Chamber for three years as a controversy, is as follows: we say that we have made a very specific effort in the first half of the year, and it has come to light where it ends. Some people think it's disastrous...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u64	Some of them!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u65	You're laughing! Yeah, some people think it's disastrous. Some people are now appreciating as an agonizing and extremely painful effort in a connection very unfavourable, to be able to put a little stone in the face of neoliberal policy, which had taken dramatic proportions both for the country and for the whole of Europe, I would say, and have shown these. We have reached the referendum, we have reached the painful compromise. And I remind you of one thing. From August 2014 to August 2015, the country did not get one euro if I remember well. So, in 2015, we made this very difficult period - I would say, if I may speak - with many difficulties, but with a attitude of dignity and responsibility, of essential responsibility. For there was no government again - at least as much as I remember, and at least in the republic - which after such a painful compromise came to the process of the people's mandate and took the popular mandate again. And this is a crucial historical element, which we must not forget for a moment. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] So I stop here. We have time to appreciate. I didn't talk about numbers. I think our rapporteur, and I imagine the Minister will talk about numbers. All I want to say - and get out of Stepma - is that my feeling, despite the very great difficulties that we continue to have, says that we are in our plan and we are the ones who are going to get the country out of this very difficult magnificence of memorials, not in an environment that is immoral, but in a difficult environment. We'll get the country out of the crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Papachristopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr President. I do not have much to say for the financial year 2015 and for the balance sheet of the year from 1-1-2015 to 31-12-2015. I think that they were analysed in the most detailed way and too much was heard. However, because over-excession in this Chamber and distortion sometimes touches the limits of absolute levelling, I think it is worth talking only with evidence. The appreciation of mine or of people who like this government I put her aside. I want to start with a report by Wolfgang Symble, no matter how surprised. Our man saw us as a guinea pig fighting to throw us out of the Eurozone. But he had the courage of this old German politician to say this - with evidence - in an interview with Alexis Papachela in Kathimerini: "I want to praise Alexis Tsipras for having had the courage, when he saw that he didn't get out of the program, to go to elections." Clearly it says it here. In fact, the position of the German politician is stirring up the theory that the present policy of the Chipra is in conflict with its pre-election rhetoric. It depends, of course, on what elections we are talking about. Because the September elections are invisible. The whole argument starts months ago. I would like to point out this and move on to something else. Some people have sat down very persistently and have looked at the balance sheets - I want to believe - some companies that are strong in the Greek economy. So let's see if the Greek economy really falls apart or I can hear these excesses. I have eighteen big companies in front of me. One of them is "METRO S.A.". I have the 2016 balance sheets. We'll have them in a few minutes. He makes a comparison of 2015 with 2016. “METRO S.A.”, which is active in the retail trade for those you don't know about it, had 1,1 billion euros in 2016, while for 2015 it had 736 million euros, an increase of around 27% to 28%. Something similar to 'WIND', 'VODAFONE', 'DEPA', 'AEGEAN AIRLINES', 'GEN TERNA'. I have them in front of me. I've got numbers and no one can question them. With the "ELLENIC EVENTS", with the "MOTOR OAL", with the "PAP", with the "OTE", with the "VASILOPOULOS", with the "ELLATOR", with the "SKLAVENIT", with the "FOLIE FOLIE", with the "INTRALT". The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation is All these people, I want to believe they're not our friends. But they are provoking that something positive is going on and something is changing. I also think it is advisable to mention that there have been signs that we have forgotten: 'PHX', 'ALFA', 'KATSELIS', 'IZOLA', 'EXKIMO'. All these people are prone that something good is going to happen. I still want, to communicate with evidence, to remind you that a key move has taken place recently. Government decision to restructure bonds totalling 29.7 billion. About 30 billion. The aim is to normalise the interest rate curve which is a precondition for the country's return to markets. Thirty billion. It's an indirect way for liquidity. I still want to remind you that the ten-year bond is at the lowest possible rate, as was 2009: 5.1% for the accuracy of 5.6%. And he's coming down. I believe that very soon the historical 5% will be overtaken. I would also like to remind you that in the context of the implementation of the short-term measures to alleviate Greek debt, domestic banking institutions each month are moving the EFSF bonds out of the ELPOs interbank market towards the European Stability Mechanism in exchange for cash. This exchange began in February and the banks have saved around 25 billion. I could now mention more and more. About 100 billion right now, one third of the debt only with what had happened before... [[At this point, the closing bell of the honourable Member's speech hits a warning bell.]] Do I have some more time, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u68	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u69	And when? Before we even enter quantum relaxation. The interest rates will be around 1.6% with 1.8%. I have no other way of responding to the dangers, excesses and catastrophes. Just evidence. I'm still going to say that Shoeble is deported to the German Parliament. Honestly, but simply honorable. Gerun Diaselblum is leaving in a while. "Grown strong" won't be forgotten by anyone. I still want to remind you that the same people, but this government, are there. We don't talk long. We are not triumphant about that. He's there. Do you want the madness of Trump, do you want Erdogan's uncontrolled policy, do you want the nonsense, the absolute intransigence that 'Europe is German, perfect and dash', which forced Great Britain to leave? They realized that there is no new outbreak of tension and insecurity. I'd like to accept that, too. And they've all fallen up, literally, to help this government. I think he's made a lousy sport. Those who later record the story after ten or twenty years, you'll see that this thing will be called it. I'm done saying that. I've heard dangers again. And yesterday. "Go, go, make." What for? Why? Since you see that hysterical reaction doesn't come out of you, this exaggeration, this catastrophe. It's not coming out of you. It is high time, then, that we saw seriously how this government worked, how it reached these results and how it would get to others. We all know that the success of the third evaluation has almost been achieved. Not easy. There's been a great effort. We all know that at the end of August we will have come out of the memos. Supervision will continue to exist, as it exists in all countries and the country is changing, although the most adverse conditions have happened. More adversity can't be done, because what happened five days ago in Mandra happens every 100 years, and if there's a history precedent, let someone tell me. And to their credit the people who paid very expensively - it was a great price - this disaster, they have clarity. They didn't say things that don't get stuck, and they don't have a hand. They know very well who's to blame. I also make a provision: Mandra and Nea Peramos will remain in history as two communities, cities, where timely - beware, to understand - you will see that it will have the completely opposite effect to what others thought. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty-one students and students and three educational attendants from the 4th School of Argostoli Kefalonia. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] My colleague, Mr Cavalella, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u71	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me, as a Member of the Attica Law, to address for a minute the incalculable consequences of the disaster in the regions of the wrongful Western Attica and make a few comments. I have heard a series of support measures and a full record of the damage. What is worrying is that in the thousands of two hundred houses recorded and checked, thousands are seriously damaged. In particular, as you said, there will be a EUR 1 000 square for housing reconstruction, 500 for business rebuilding, etc. However, ladies and gentlemen, what has finally been said is that 60% of this financial aid, aid, will be free state aid and 40% of an interest-free loan, which will of course be managed by loans, with a thousand two problems all Greeks have today, debts, arrangements, public utility services, cards. Now we're giving them another loan. And because it is the responsibility of state, what has happened - and it is not just SYRIZA, but it is also the previous governments, we cannot deliver it all at the expense of SYRIZA - ANEL, it is chronic diseases - resources can be found and move to state grant 100%. In other words, resources can be demanded through the European Union by energising the Solidarity Fund and the Civil Protection Mechanism. And now I am going to go to the main theme: the numbers are prospering, but the citizens are suffering and every day they find less money in their pocket. The balance sheet of the State budget of 2015 is therefore based solely on overtaxation. You're even taxing the air. The results of overtaxation are unfortunately poor, as, as we have already stressed on several occasions, without growth, through investments, we eat our flesh. Therefore, in view of the data presented in 2015, the low collection of direct and indirect taxes, fines and significant penalties in previous years has led to an increase in the receivable balance. Attributes indicate, based on balance sheet figures for 2015, that fines amounting to EUR 29 billion have been met. Of the 29 billion, however, some 110 million were deleted, while only 50 million euros were collected. This analysis is therefore a key element in the analysis that out of 29 billion only of the 4 billion are requirements for the period 1976-2005, whereas the remaining 25 billion concern the period 2006-2015, i.e. the previous years of the memorandum. In particular, the data on the government’s dues to private individuals were also alarming, as a peculiar attitude of payments prevailed in all public liabilities that were around EUR 3.8 billion at the end of 2014 and reached EUR 6 million at the end of 2015. It is characteristic of the government's sympathy for indirect taxation, a tax which by the way and in theory has no left mark, as this tax is paid equally horizontally, is paid by all citizens regardless of income. Of course, the Left who submits to the government's ideology does not want the special initiative and is enough to share the misery, takes it from one pocket, put it on the other, so we move forward. How long? I'll get you a few simple examples so people are watching. Whoever has a pool in his garden, we have to get him to make another one on the roof instead of telling him to bail it. Why? Because there are five people employed: the one who cleans it, the one who cares for the burner, the filters, etc. Whoever had a triple boat, you put evidence and taxes and abandoned it. We had to get him the one who had the trimeter boat to get a dime, go up to Aegina, take his company and go to a tavern, start moving the economy. Why is the economy moving from? Investments are not going to be made. From us, from our little initiatives, what happens. Anyway, you put taxes on cars, luxurious living the four wheels. The safety of the world is seen as a luxurious living, because when you obligate someone to move it into a second-rate, third-class car, it will be extinct in an accident. You do not take that into account. In any case tomorrow, the arrangements for tourist boats are coming. That's where you hit the tourist boats. And here's the funny story. A second departure shall be prohibited on the same day. That is, bringing you money, VAT, citizens cannot twice the same day, what you do with the first ball. I don't understand your logic. I'll close, because time passes, and I want to respect time, and it's a sample and a political man I'd say. In the light of the above, then, we have some concerns and even more because we see the derailment of the economy, as it continued with accelerating in 2015 from the SYRIZA conflict, which you had taken the power lying unfortunately that you will close the vicious circle of the memorials, that you would smash the memorials in one day and take the country out of this stagnation, HICPIA, an unfair tax, would throw him in the trash with one. In any case, you have taken the power, at least, to be responsible for the institution of power and to see how we can get out of the growth, investment, to get out of the stagnation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate will be closed by the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u73	We've got secondarys. We want to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u74	What can you talk about? It does not provide for the rules of procedure. He doesn't think so. You should consult with the Bureau to give you the opportunity to understand it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u75	The previous President said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u76	However, the Rules of Procedure do not provide for secondary periods in today's procedure. It's not a formal matter. I'm just telling you to know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u77	Can we talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u78	You can speak, Mr Colleague, because there is tolerance from the Bureau, but you are not entitled. How much time do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u79	Ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u80	Mr. Dimitrios Mardas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u81	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to add something to the balance sheet and balance sheet. It is not a strategy instrument or a strategy illustrating the balance sheet. It's a dubious management size that's been budgeted. What is the issue of the balance sheet and the balance sheet? It's a simple question. Does the evidence coincide with the budgets, whether we disagree or agree? If they coincide, it's fine. We have to say here that I accept the balance sheet and the balance sheet. If they do not coincide and there are terrible discrepancies that derail the economy, debt, loan or anything else, then someone, even if he agrees with the budget, should normally say "I disagree with the accounting data". Here we have no derailment of the economy with the evidence. There are some discrepancies. Clearly, there is, but debt has not increased, expenditure has not increased, the country's lending has not increased to such an extent as to divert the economy. Therefore, it is not justified to vote against the balance sheet and the balance sheet at the moment - I repeat - that there is no diversion of those figures which led to the formation of a budget, whether we agree or disagree. I come to my dear colleagues and to their presentation. First of all, 70% of presentations, as you know, were out of the question. They have heard little about the balance sheet and the balance sheet, which is a technical debate, the balance sheet and the balance sheet. Mr Fortsakis spoke nine minutes about the 2018 budget, for 2017, for the catastrophic years and everything else and dedicated a few minutes to the balance sheet. The same has been done with the dear other colleagues. Others remembered the defense, others remembered various other elements. Mr Koutsouko, in 2015 we had no GDP reduction of 3%. We had a fall in GDP of 0.2%. There's been a lot of talk. Of course, coming to the catastrophic year, in 2015, I will simply make some reports from the European Court of Auditors, according to the report it has presented and related to the period 2010-2014 and by the way 2015. And I'm talking about some elements to see what was and what wasn't catastrophic. Page 7 of the report that you all have in your hands for Greece: The objectives have been achieved - it refers to the two programmes - but to a limited extent. Page 8: Measures for 2010 and the restructuring of the debt 2012 have proved inadequate. Page 10: Previous programmes have not been able to restore the country's ability to finance its market needs due to weaknesses in implementation. They are referred to in the two previous programmes. I continue: Exports, deprivation of a clear strategy, lack of a strategy for fiscal consolidation for development. If you read Annex 6, you will find the discrepancies that existed in 2014, 2013, 2012, which were unlikely to lead to the 2018 forecasts.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u82	It shall apply from 1
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u83	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day Because in 2014, according to the medium-term, it was the first year - your observation - forecasts for 2018. When the first year of forecasts is derailed, it is reasonable that the last year of forecasts cannot be confirmed. What is the conclusion of the report? The report clearly says that the committee did not do the work it had to do and clearly the report says that the policies pursued between 2010 and 2014 were not appropriate policies. Also, the report notes that we expected recovery in 2012. And she didn't come. Because - I repeat - the policies were not appropriate. That's not our conclusion. It is a conclusion of the European Court of Auditors. So what's the next thought after that conclusion? It had to change this mixture of politics in every way. That was understood by the institutions last year. From a large number of scientists - I leave SYRIZA - it became noticeable, not only in 2015, but much earlier. So the effort to change this policy mix, as manifested in 2015 as a strategic objective, was an effort that had to be made, either from us or from any other government that was in power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u85	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u86	Mr. Kutsuko, do you want the floor? I would like to ask, in general terms, who would like to talk, despite the fact that the procedure was not foreseen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u87	I respect the Rules of Procedure, but because my colleague has second-handed, I would like to make a comment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u88	You have the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u89	The first point is that if we believe what the honourable Member has said in his denunciation, we must all vote against the report. Because what did the colleague say? He said 'if the implementation is not faithful according to the budget, then we must vote against'. I read from the 2016 SYRIZA report that the forecast of the budget, resulting from the sum of the revenues minus expenditure and so on. We know how it turns out - it was that we had to have a primary result of the General Government of 5.5 billion and had -348 million. So there is no compliance with the implementation of the budget. I do not want to mention all the figures, because that is what is understood. So, Mr. Colleague, why are you voting? I would also like to say, in reply to Mr Manda, that we did not question the reliability of the accounts in terms of execution. We questioned the management that led to the next problems, which I have said, Mr President. And since you have made an appeal to us to reach agreement, in which we as prudent opposition, without imitating your own history as opposition, wishing to agree, in the committee we discussed the report, I welcomed Mr Juliarakis's statement and I wished that this would become a government's policy, that we could consider the development of economic growth from the time we entered EMU so far. This means accepting our proposal for a committee of inquiry, which you have rejected, as you protect the government's secret partner. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u91	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I too will start off-the-spot, on the occasion of the placing of a special speaker on the issue of child poverty, again on the occasion of Eurostat's publication today. I, too, read carefully and with interest the results of the report, and I would like to dwell on four points which I am impressed with. The first point is that the percentage of children in our country who were at risk of poverty or who had severe material deprivation in 2010, the year the adventure of the Greek economy began, was already too great, was already 28% of the child population. Secondly, I would like to say that I am very pleased The change in the percentage from 2010 to 2016, an additional 8%, from 28% to 36%, is the largest in the European Monetary Union and brings the country first to a percentage of children exposed to the risk of poverty or experience serious material deprivation. We were first in the Eurozone and third parties in the European Union. Thirdly, I have noticed and am surprised that this is not the fate of the countries that have experienced budgetary adjustment. The truth is that our case is a special one, because the size of the adjustment has no precedent, it cannot be compared with similar episodes in the past or with the experience of Portugal, Cyprus and Ireland. However, I have noticed that at the same time in Ireland the proportion of children exposed to the risk of poverty has fallen, and Ireland has passed a memorandum. It remained stable in Portugal. Therefore, the increase in child poverty is not an inalienable fate. Fourthly, which the report does not say, but I have been following it for the past one and a half years in the work done by the Council of Economic Experts, and which is very important, there is a deterioration in the relative position of this age category of children, in other words, compared to all other age groups. To say this simply, if some were beaten more than a long-term recession, the political crisis in recent years, they were children. And I say it for two reasons. The first reason is that all the effort that the government is making, even what we voted yesterday, the social dividend, is first, from now on, from 2017 onwards, to deal with the consequences especially of child poverty. What we did yesterday reduces poverty in 2017, compared to 2016, by 1.4%. And I am talking to the first pluralist, because almost all of the House supported the distribution of the social dividend. The second reason is that the effort we have made - and it was not easy, but it was successful - to reallocate primary public operating expenditure by actions that do not have a high social efficiency - I would say have almost zero - to other actions with high social efficiency, is again aimed at dealing with child poverty. I am referring to three actions: firstly, the strengthening of family allowances in the budget, which I have now tabled, by EUR 160 million, and in particular the strengthening of the family allowance for the first and second children; secondly, the strengthening of school meals by EUR 50 million; and thirdly, the extension of the institution of nurseries by an additional EUR 30 million. Because we know that child poverty does not only deprive the child, it also deprives society of its productive potential in the long term by reducing human capital. To complement, too, that much of the actions that we have already legislated for 2019 in the wonderful countermeasures are aimed at child poverty again. It is the country's number one problem, along with unemployment, obviously. They are linked, however, because child poverty is mainly seen in families who have no single worker. I'll go to second place now. The second point is this: we are all aware of the problem. It was first recognised in plenary today by the special speaker of the river. There are no easy solutions. There are no free solutions. If we want to strengthen programmes to combat child poverty, resources must be found somewhere. In fact, in an extremely unfavourable financial environment - which I think we all recognise - finding other resources is difficult, it has an extremely difficult political economy. So I cannot understand the insistence of counter-population on insisting, without seeing the problem as a whole, either on tax exemptions, without explaining how to finance if we reduce taxes of this kind, or on the other hand insisting horizontally on cutting social costs. It is a debate that needs to be done with maturity. Obviously there are considerable political differences between Parliament's wings. But there are no free solutions. If we want to combat child poverty, we must find the resources from somewhere. Let me now turn to the subject of the agenda, which is the balance sheet, balance sheet and implementation of the 2015 budget. Let me say that the year 2015 has at least one particular feature. The budget submitted today in November 2014 was submitted by a part of the Greek Parliament, by the Government of New Democracy and PASOK. Immediately, after the January 2015 elections, however, it was the left-wing government that had been called upon to manage the country's public finances. I want to focus a little on the 2015 budget. The 2015 budget therefore provided a financial result for 2014 - the current financial result for the current year, in 2017, is a surplus of 2.44% - of the amount of EUR 686,000 - if I read well - or 0.3% of the Gross Domestic Product. At the same time, it anticipated a result for 2015, i.e. the closure of the budget of EUR 5 617 000. The difference between the closure of the 2014 budget and that of 2015 is of the order of 4.9 billion or 2.7% of GDP. I accept the case - I accept it as a working hypothesis - which the 2015 budget did that the growth rate in that year would be 2.9%. And I accept as a case of working that the implementation of budget expenditure would be in the context of that budget. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] Give me two minutes, Mr. President. So, assuming that it is the growth rate that it predicted, the spontaneous increase in tax revenue in 2015 - what economists say 'financial overrun' - would be about 1% of GDP, about 1.8 billion euros. The gap with which the 2015 budget should be closed is EUR 4,9 billion and EUR 1.8 billion is above the revenue spontaneously generated by economic growth. The gap of EUR 3.1 billion in 2015 means two things. It means rather that the government - if the government were the government of the New Democracy and PASOK - would be against a dilemma: Or not to stick to the 2015 budget, resulting in the target, the financial result falling below the budgetary target - just what it did in 2014 and 2014 lost the target, the target was 1,5 and the result 0,04 - or to do the same, not to respect the budget consistently with the country's credibility or to take further measures of 3.1 billion by reconstituting the same cycle of procyclical fiscal policy. These are for the 2015 budget forecasts and my own assessment of how it would have been implemented by the previous government. But the government has changed. And it changed in the summer of 2015 and a given one: the target of the budget has changed. One of the big, I would say, successes of the summer's negotiations was the reduction of the budgetary targets for 2015 as well. The objective, therefore, has been reduced to realistic levels, the budget has been cut by 0.75% and the country has avoided another budget of pre-cyclical budgetary policy. We are now going to the wider, if you want, the 2015 macroeconomic environment, to repeat what I said in the committee as well. I have no doubt - no one has any doubt - that 2015 was indeed a year of high uncertainty and was characterised by what economists say a typical cycle of uncertainty - liquidity. He started in October - November 2014 and ended with the agreement of August 2015. I would like to be honest and to express my own personal opinion. I think that a quiet, honest and well-documented debate for both the first half of 2015, for the cycle that I have just described uncertainty - liquidity and for the failures and errors in implementing the two previous programmes, which failed to get the country out of the crisis, and for how we arrived in 2010, is necessary to heal the wounds in collective memory, to restore calm and, I would say, to a sense of optimism in the future and, of course, to draw useful lessons for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the draft laws of the Ministry of Finance is adjourned: a. Clear the State's State's Report, financial year 2015; b. Clear the State's Balance Sheet, financial year 2015. Asked by this House: Can the draft law of the Ministry of Finance be accepted: Clearing the State's State's State's Report, financial year 2015? The accepting of the draft law, please rise. [[Accepting the draft law]] Apparently, most of them were raised. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Principle of State Report, financial year 2015’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u93	Asked by this House: Can the draft law of the Ministry of Finance be accepted: ‘Statement of State Balance Sheet 2015’? The accepting of the draft law, please rise. Apparently, most of them were raised. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘State Balance sheet of the State, financial year 2015’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u94	I would ask the House to empower the Bureau to confirm the minutes of today's sitting, including the debate and vote on the State's financial year 2015 statement and balance sheet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u95	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-21-S1-commons.u96	With the consent of the House at 21.05 the sitting on Thursday 23 November 2017 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's work: (a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent debate and then debate No 9/8-11-2017 on the topical and urgent question; and (b) legislative work, in accordance with the supplementary agenda distributed.
