ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question report on Thursday 21 December 2017. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 615/11-12-2017, by MP Trikala of the Radical Left Coalition, Christos Simorellis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Revision of the criteria for selecting the exploitation for action 10.01.04, Reduction of water pollution from agricultural activity". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Mr Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgiotas, Member of Parliament, with number 698/19-12-2017, on the subject: "Incomplete and fragmented results of the Government on Digital Organisations". 3. PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "Financial aid for the restoration of housing losses and the replacement of construction for those affected by the fatal flood in Western Attica". 4. The question by No. 696/19-12/2017 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Christos Katsotis, Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: “To stop terrorism and persecution of workers in the supermarkets “KARYPIDIS”, ensure their right to work and pay their wages.” B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question by MP Carditsa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Panagiotas Vranzas to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the subject: "The vertical drop in the price of sheep's milk and the real risk to feta". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Vassilios Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on "120 instalments for late payments of insurance contributions". 3. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: “Savoidakis S.A.”. 4. The Question No 643/18-12/2017 by MP Drama of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Christos Karagiannides to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the free concession of the use of two properties in the Municipality of Drama. 5. Question No 622/12-12/2017 by MP Larissa of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas to the Minister for Administrative Reconstruction, on "When will the digital signature be applied?" 6. The question by No 693/18-12/2017 of the Greek Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdus to the Foreign Minister on the subject: "The position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the so-called transnational agreement with Saudi Arabia". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. Under No 571/5-12-2017, a topical question by MP Athens, New Democracy, Gerasios Giakoumatos, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Procedure to address the recent natural disasters". 8. The Question No 537/4-12-2017 by Z' Vice-President of the Parliament and MP of the party Potami Spyridon Lykoudi to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: 'Social and psychological support for those affected by natural disasters'. 9. The party's No 536/4-12-2017 topical question from the party's MP Attica Potami Georgiou Mavrotas to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, entitled "An Attica Anti-military Protection Work". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction: ‘Following the Memorandum of Cooperation on the National Folklore Initiative (2015-2018), under the programme “The French language in international relations”. The draft was adopted by a majority in the Standing Committee. It is introduced to the House in accordance with the procedure laid down in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, namely those who object to the ratification of this agreement. On the basis of the practice that I saw, two parties, the Golden Dawn and the Communist Party of Greece, they voted'residents'. So their representatives will take the floor for five minutes. The Minister will answer for five minutes and we will enter the vote. An amendment from the river has also been tabled. I see Mr. Pssarian here, who probably wants to defend her, so I'll give him the floor. The Minister will answer whether or not she is accepted. Then we'll vote and go to the next bill. Mr. Eliopoulos, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, I would like to speak on the procedure you have referred to.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u3	Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u4	Since the bill is not only ratification, it has a second, third and fourth article effectively, which are not included in the text of the Convention, I would like to speak on these articles for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u5	It is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u6	Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. It's not a penalty. The second, third and fourth articles are domestic law.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u7	No, Mr. Carras, it's in accordance with Article 108. In any case, the world has not been broken for three minutes, but it is by way of derogation. Typically on the basis of Article 108...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u8	Let me take the opposite view of the following articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u9	Okay, I understand what you said. You are right on the substance. However, I cannot give you the floor under the Rules of Procedure. But we won't ruin our hearts for three minutes. I will give you the floor after Mr. Ilioopoulos and Mr. Tassos from the Communist Party of Greece. Mr. Eliopoulos, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, we know nothing about the amendment tabled by the river. Today he was filed?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u11	No, yesterday. See date 19-12-2017.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u12	Does he want to support the amendment, to listen to it, and then answer it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u13	I'm telling you again what it says: It's the excellent knowledge of a foreign language as an essential standard for the introduction to the Department of Economic and Commercial Affairs of the National School of Public Administration.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u14	So what level? Is the level specified?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u15	Now I don't have it in front of me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u16	All right, all right. We shall vote on it 'at present'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u17	Go on, Mr. Heliopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u18	This sanction concerns the implementation of the programme of Franco-visual with a view to increasing the number of public administration staff working with international organisations in order to better handle the French language, improve the level of knowledge of the French language of public administration officials and promote French programmes in relation to the National School of Public Administration and the Diplomatic Academy. The first thing we have to notice is excessive delay between the time when the memorandum of cooperation was signed and the time when it was tabled in Parliament. That was also said in committee. While it has been signed since October 2015, why do you bring it just now, when the end of the programme will take place in 2018? Why is such an agreement to be ratified, and we are, in fact, a stage before it ends? We must not forget, however, that the provisional application of the Treaty since it was signed and as referred to in Article 5 has been definitively completed. So we see agreements in force in our country without having joined the Greek legislation. We condemn this political choice because it creates poor texts and wrong practices. As far as ratification is concerned, the International Organisation of Gallomony includes all the measures to promote the French language and the values it has put forward to the countries which have acceded to the Charter. This includes fifty-six states and governments and fourteen observer states. Our country joined this international organisation in 2004. The French language's characteristic is the deep awareness of the value of the French language, which is also included in the main language of communication on the planet and is present on all continents. Although French are a common denominator, the programme promotes and develops a dialogue between different cultures and identities. This makes it clear that there is a need for support, support and promotion not only of French but also of Greek, and that it is also an obstacle to the attempted globalisation. The reference to Article 1 on submission of the programme in an annual evaluation is not missing. Since the programme has been implemented since 2015, we would like the Minister responsible to present the evaluations so far. Finally, as regards the Steering Committee and its staff in Article 3, it stipulates that its members are appointed by a decision of the Minister for Administrative Reconstruction. Of course, it is clear that they are your own people who have joined the respective departments of the Ministry following your own recommendation and approval. Until now when implementation of the Memorandum of Cooperation was temporary, how did these members define? With regard to educational actions, how many and what will these be from 2015 until today and what programming until the end of 2018? Continuing training of public sector officials is considered positive and should be carried out on a regular basis in order to make better use of human resources and to adapt to the needs and requirements of the time. At the same time, however, we must not forget the linguistic wealth of Greek and Greek culture. We are not opposed to the National Gallogue Program. After all, according to the figures of the French Ministry of Education, the French contain 64% Greek-rooted words. The impact of Greek culture on lifestyle, social and political organization of France is also known. Nevertheless, we should learn something from the official actions of the states, such as France, so that we can organise ourselves, promote and take advantage of the influence of Greek culture. At this point we cannot denounce the abuse of the Greek language in our time. It is inconceivable that the young Greeks cannot speak their native language and do not know the roots of it, while in schools abroad the ancient Greek is taught, as it appears that the greatness of Greek culture and philosophy is recognized there. We shall vote 'at present' because it is a formal ratification. We just have our objections because such sanctions usually come one or two years after they are signed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u19	Good, Mr. Heliopoulou. The representative of the Communist Party of Greece has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u20	It is clear that we want our people and, in particular, public administration officials to learn letters, many letters. Of course, it is also the learning of foreign languages. Because this brings the Greek people together with other peoples, with their customs, traditions and traditions. So it's a very legitimate thing. Our objection is that this process must be carried out by the state, by the public, and it must not be left to learn foreign languages either to private bodies or to institutions such as this International Organisation of Gallophony which, in addition to their training, also pursues a policy. That is why we cannot vote positively and we are voting 'at present'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u21	Thank you. I now give the floor, as we have said, for three minutes to Mr Carras. I shall then give the floor to Mr Psariano to present the amendment to the Potamiou, for another three minutes, and to the Minister, instead of five, seven minutes, to answer and close. Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u22	Mr President, thank you. I would like to reintroduce a technical remark I have made in committee. Reading the Memorandum in Article 4, he looks forward to a national coordinator for the implementation of the Memorandum and, at the same time, paragraph 3 of Article 4 - I am talking about the text of the Convention - he predicts that national coordinators will be able to rely on a national navigation committee bringing together representatives of the Ministries. In this sense, therefore, I have looked for the true concept of finding in Article 3 which are the members of the National Commission for Navigation. I note, therefore, that this committee provides for the participation as a fifth member of the following educational cooperation of the French Institute and as a sixth member of the Director of the Athens Institute of Education and Education. The French Government's diplomatic service. I have my objections here, because we are talking about a National Navigation Committee. Educational institutions are deemed to have to be involved. The French Institute is an educational institution, but it is under contract between Greece and France within the framework of another diplomacy. I would therefore insist, Minister, if you insist that representatives of the French Government who have the status of diplomat and diplomacy, if you wish, in Greece, are included, then that representatives of the two French schools of the Greek universities, should be included. We can't ignore them. We have two French studies courses of fifty and thirty years, respectively, of the University of Athens and thirty years of the University of Thessaloniki, which are the ones who have promoted the education of French-language in Greece. They may be the advisor to both the government and the Ministry for the development of French knowledge in Greek administration. I think that if they are not included, it will be another form of degradation of Greek education. I will be persistent on this, Minister, because I think we are going to go beyond the contract, when we now include representatives of a foreign government - I have nothing with the French, I have good relations, I say it - on a national committee. The National Navigation Committee has the role of directing the national coordinator to the implementation of the Convention. I therefore think that we should remain purely Greek and do not continue to reduce these two schools they offer. If it weren't for a university and a high level, I wouldn't mention it at all. I wouldn't object. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u23	Thank you. Mr Psariano, you have the floor for three minutes to present your amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u24	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is an amendment concerning, except for French and German as a second language, Spanish or Italian can also be counted. It is this type of amendment. I don't want to read it all now. As far as I'm concerned, this is already under way. That's what the Minister told us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u25	The Minister will answer and you will say whether or not you are covered.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u26	Yes, we want to include two more well-known European languages, and indeed the Spanish which are spoken in a huge piece of the Earth. Apart from French or German that enter as a second language, they also enter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u27	Thank you. Madam Minister, you have the floor for five minutes, with tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u28	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u29	I'm sorry, you don't have the floor. Only the objectors take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u30	A clarification of the amendment, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u31	You are not taking the floor on this either, but in any case. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u32	If I remember correctly - and I have already asked my partner to investigate it, then we will soon have the number of the law and the article - something like that, something like that has been passed on to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' bill. Of course, it is particularly a matter of accepting the diplomatic body. If, with the amendment, we want it to be extended to the other services, then it is a similar matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u33	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you can answer first of all for the ratification, for the comments which have been made and, of course, for the amendments for five minutes with tolerance. Mrs. Gerovali, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u34	Thank you very much. I would first like to refer to the amendment. Mr Psariano, in the logic of the amendment, we obviously have no reason to disagree. I, too, think it's a solved issue, but unfortunately, I haven't had time to see it. If you want, and if they can't get us the information, we'd be happy to see it in a next moment. As far as ratification is concerned, an integrated debate has been held in committee and interesting things have been heard. What I am thinking above all is the debate that has taken place on what the Greek state should do in order to structure a mechanism for the dissemination of the Greek language. I think this has been a very interesting debate in the rest of the debate. Otherwise, I do not think we had any disagreements on the issue of cooperation with the Agency in order to train officials and diplomatic officials. The programme - and I think it is also the subject of Mr Carras' remarks - is addressed to civil servants, but also to the diplomatic body, hence the participation of both sides. But I would like to say a few things about the remark on the delayed ratification vote. You know that this programme, as we have said in the debate in the committee, has really begun since 2006. It took a more formal form later and we came to be a sanction, where by 2016 a hundred ninety-six people were trained, who attended this program. In 2017, for technical reasons, in particular, the programme was not implemented. That is why there was this delay in the ratification vote. In recent years, however, we have activated the debate. In fact, there is also a debate about what will happen with the programme in 2018, but also about further extension beyond 2018, which is why we consider it useful to vote on the ratification. As you know, this is a programme, which is not about the whole, that is to say it does not solve all the issues of education in French, which is why it obviously also has some specific features. The effort on the part of the Ministry is to relocate civil servants, because, apart from the fact that the Greek public needs young people with other skills, we can only press on the existing human resources, which we will see to it through skills, just like the foreign language. In this context, therefore, we have already started in addition to this cooperation, cooperation with the French National School of Public Administration, HSY. It's started a close partnership. The first civil servants have already been to school and have attended the program and Genaris is coming in the second cycle. So we both started working with the Open University, with the EMCDDA and the French HSB and with the OECD, and with them all and with the International Organisation of Gallophony. Therefore, Mr Carras, there are particularities. It's not everything to learn French. No university is underestimated, of course. It's an organization that works in some ways. That is what I have to say with regard to the remarks that have been made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u35	The debate on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction is closed: 'Following the Memorandum of Cooperation on the National French Initiative (2015-2018), under the programme 'The French language in international relations'. Asked by this House: Can the bill be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u36	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u37	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u38	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u39	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u40	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u41	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u42	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u43	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u44	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction: ‘Structuring the Memorandum of Cooperation on the National French-language Initiative (2015-2018), under the programme “The French language in international relations”, was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of articles and all of them and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u46	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, the Member, Mr Theodoros Fortsakis, is seeking permission from a short-day absence abroad from 17 January to 19 January 2018. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u47	The House therefore approved the requested permission. We continue with legislative work. The Minister is here, Mr. Pappas, so we will enter the next bill immediately. Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information: "Authorisation of Space Activities - Registration in the National Register of Space Objects - Establishment of the Greek Space Organisation and other provisions". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 14 December 2017 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting in principle, articles and amendments. This is where I want to make a report. There is also the Minister here, who is not directly responsible, who is indirectly responsible. When we made this decision at the Conference of Presidents, no one knew that we would be here today before a desert storm when it comes to ministerial amendments. Two amendments have been tabled. Twenty ministerial amendments have therefore been tabled. The two have already been incorporated into the bill because they were discussed in the committee and eighteen left. That means that we must change, I think we cannot go by the decision of the Conference of Presidents. It is impossible to do so, because within the time that the rapporteur and, in particular, the Member, who has to speak for seven minutes, cannot deal with all the issues at the outset, the articles and the amendments. So the proposal which I am proposing to you and which, if you approve it, will be overturned by the decision of the Conference of Presidents, is this: we are starting with the bill. We will see how many colleagues will be registered. Since there is no electronic record, some of the ladies - civil servants in Parliament will pass and ask and whoever wants to name it, to see how many people will ultimately speak about the bill and the amendments, of course, if you so wish. To finish the debate on the bill first. The Parliamentary Representatives and the rapporteurs of the parties have a full second language to put it, if they so wish, on the amendments. And since this list has been sent to me, starting at 11.30 p.m., I have to tell you that I did not accept that. I have of course also reached agreement with the President of Parliament, who has agreed. Because he will come at 11.30 a.m., Mr. Vitsas will say about his amendment, and Mr. Loverdos will rightly complain that he wants to ask him something or say something about the Minister's amendment and the Minister will not be present. The ministers will therefore not come as they please, but after we have taken a possible time to close the debate on the bill, on the principle and on the articles, the Secretary of Government and the Ministers who will have to support their amendments will all come and will all be present during the debate on the amendments. We are finishing, for example, - I say an indicative time, because we still don't know how many you're going to sign - at noon. At 14.00 p.m. until 15.30 p.m. the Ministers will be here and in order to support the amendments, but also when Parliamentary representatives and rapporteurs are placed, if they wish, in full time - I repeat - to be present. This is the proposal I make as the Bureau to ease this story, which with me was surprised when I got the file last night to know what I'm going to have in front of me this morning. As I see that hands are up, I will start from Mr Dendia, on the basis of the parliamentary order, to all the parliamentary representatives or the rapporteurs, if it is not a parliamentary representative present here, and Mrs Vaki will close. Of course, if he wants to say something, and the Minister will say so last. Mr. Dendia, you have the floor for three minutes. I assume you want to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u48	Mr President, I shall obviously speak on a point of order. I must say that your position has been correct with regard to the duties of the Bureau and the President, but in no way can we be content with that. Minister, first I keep your position, which I must tell you has been transferred to me, I did not read in the Minutes. But I am told that it has been said and I imagine you will not deny it. In particular, I was told that you yourself said that during the debate on this bill no amendments would be made. The second is the universal inadmissibility, Mr President, of showing all kinds of amendments before us. Twenty-one was, three have been incorporated into the text of the legislation, but of course we are at the beginning of the sitting. I imagine that some ministers will feel the temptation to bring some more, as I hear, or perhaps leave them for tomorrow because of our outcry. We are here before the storm of amendments, which relate to any issue, not only of the "land", as you said, but also of the oceans and of the sea and of the air, and of the PPC and of the Defence Systems, of the migration systems and of the benefits and of the "friendliness" and anything else you can imagine. There is the ultimate ridicule of any parliamentary procedure, Mr President, and we are also making the humiliation of this horrors. Mr Minister, first of all without you being responsible, because this is what you are being charged with, you have a cost by representing the government. I understand it's none of your business, but it's about the government and you're here. These things are inconceivable. The President made a proposal. Good. We must accept the proposal, Mr President. When will these amendments be read? Who's going to analyze them? Who will make it possible, on Christmas Eve, to see all the issues that the government chooses, in its own crisis, to put to the national Parliament forty-eight hours before Christmas holidays? What are these things? Would the essential seriousness not force all of this to have been discussed, to have been prepared? Otherwise, it seems to us that this is precisely so as not to be the suffering of the House, precisely so that the parties can not be allowed to do so. And I do not exclude the Members of the Couple, because ridicule is about them too. Because the degradation is of concern to them too. Because contempt concerns them too. It is inconceivable, ladies and gentlemen, that what is being done here, that we should be called upon this morning to respond to twenty different issues, which are quite specific, for which we need special advice and special knowledge. It's a shame! That's all I have to say. It is a shame, Mr President! To listen to the rest of the House and from there on, to see how we can save what we can save from Parliament's authority.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u49	Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u50	Mr President, should Mr Pappas and Mr Pappas be allowed to sit down in this House? So he's looking for it? Is he, like, in man's nature? He had brought a draft law in which, from what I saw in committee, there were some disagreements, but in general, we cannot tell him that we are throwing it out the window. We are discussing this and perhaps voting on something. The climate is that. And Mr. Dendias is wrong. The Minister responsible, Mr Colleague, as you well know, is co-signing to come an amendment here. He also accepts the political responsibility for this whole situation. Will you now tell me, do we discover these ministerial amendments, with SYRIZA - ANEL? Obviously not. It is a practice, not always right, in which the revisions of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure had tried to put an end to these obstacles and ultimately exceed those of governments. But this situation of twenty-one cases of intervention by the Ministers with amendments, I think it is out of Parliament's spirit and out of a bad practice. She's over her, that's more than her. The Conference of Presidents is therefore being ridiculed. Ladies and gentlemen, the Conference of Presidents, as you said, Mr President, sets out a procedure. And then we come this process to make her a rag. The Conference of Presidents shall be annulled in this way. And that's why you have to do something. Finally, there are rumours, Mr President, but, after the latest developments, no one can say 'I am not talking about' - that an amendment will come today or tomorrow, which will involve asylum issues. Will this be the interior department that'll bring her? Is this the Justice Department that's bringing her? Will it be the Ministry of Immigration that will bring them? I don't know. In this mess of amendments, however, I listen very carefully to that reputation which says that an amendment can be made to link asylum to the issues of extradition, in view of the eight Turks, for which Greek justice, the Marios Ice, has decided not to be issued. With the amendments, no one can understand exactly what detail is hidden behind a phrase that is incomprehensible, incomprehensible in a journalistic mind, in a political mind, in a mind of a Member of Parliament, who cannot know behind the wording ‘the case of Article 14(2) of the law changes’ what may exist. So because there is this risk, please, Mr President, that we can show as strict a degree of rigour as we can for other amendments. At least these, apart from one thing I think, we've known them since last afternoon and we've been able to see something. For what it is necessary to come from now on, however, the whole House, the majority, to say 'no', to give us the opportunity to understand whether there is such a suspicious amendment, what it is and to uncover it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u51	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u52	What process? The process will end as we have said, with Mrs Vaki. And then if you want to take the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u53	It is a question which is now under discussion, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u54	Yeah, you don't have the floor. There is the representative of your party. So Mrs. Vaki will speak. I said it all along. He'll close the speaker circle as usual. The representative of the ruling party has been speaking lately to answer. Mr. Panayotarus has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr President. Amid a storm - as you said with some other phrase - there are twenty amendments coming. Mr President, if your opinion is passed, every parliamentary representative will be given full time to analyse them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u56	And the rapporteurs too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u57	But from a moment to speak, we will only need twenty minutes for the amendments if we want to be okay with ourselves and with all those who see us. As you can see, Mr President, the problem is practical and operational. It is not only the fact that, while other amendments had been agreed, there have been over twenty amendments and we might also see others, in the ordinary practice of the government. You have to take a position as President who run the sitting and protect the authority of this House, the government, of all the Members of Parliament. It is not possible to discuss more than twenty amendments which are completely irrelevant, of course, with the space secrets bill, which the Minister has brought to Parliament very well. Only you can make a decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u58	Mr. Panayotus, I, by way of exception, made the proposal. Because the President-in-Office of the Council is obliged to bring forward and defend the opinion - unanimously - of the Conference of Presidents. I understand that all colleagues, and the government, have no objection to going to this alternative proposal, as I described it. I did so by way of derogation and said that I can only do so if I have the approval of the House. On the basis of the Rules of Procedure, you are, of course, right - I cannot overturn it. We're moving on. Mr Synthrakis has the floor to place himself on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u59	Evidently, the JRC does not agree with this procedure, with this appalling amendment which has probably broken and the barrier has broken the limit. I don't know exactly what the limit is. Is it nineteen? Is it 20? And it is a bill that does not justify such a large number of amendments. Some of the amendments are much more important than the bill itself. For example, the last one to come, Amendment No 1409, which abolishes PPC's night invoice, is much more important.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u60	Uh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u61	Let me say my opinion and do not correct me. So it's a common practice he took from previous governments. We denounce this procedure. And we agree to give a real time to the seconds so that we can put ourselves essentially on the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u62	Mr. Lazarides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr President. If we hear the number of amendments so vaguely and generally it may be affected. But I would like to point out this. I've mentioned it in the past. First of all, I read all the ministerial amendments. They confirm what I want to tell you. They correct shortcomings, omissions, ambiguities and mistakes of the past. For example, I had brought an amendment here a few months ago, where I corrected and saved - if you like - land which was allocated by previous governments to the municipalities to do schools. They were given this narrow margin to implement the construction and operation of schools in five years. If possible in five years, receiving the municipalities a plot to shape the space, to find funds, to do studies, to build the school, to equip it and to have students! This has led to the threat of the GOI to take the plots and to lose this programme for schools. And I had tabled an amendment which we had lengthened the time and the five years we had done so. Is that bad? Wasn't it for the benefit of society? On another amendment I will also mention that they had brought the investment projects and had not foreseen in the bills - I am speaking again of the PASOK and New Democracy governments - what would happen if an entrepreneur for reasons of force majeure wanted to return the advance that he had received to make an investment programme. I am referring to cases of force majeure and we have had such phenomena in particular in the region of Epirus, Itoloakarnania, etc. We're talking about weather phenomena, about the deaths of businessmen. There was no provision for people to return the money and we brought an amendment with which we anticipated it. Was it bad? No, for God's sake! If anyone disagrees with some of these amendments, they should be put here, judge them and so on. We cannot generally and vaguely say 'you know, these are the amendments'. That's all I wanted to say. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u64	Mr. Saridis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u65	Mr President, thank you very much. Your comment, Mr President, on the'storm of desert'. After the'storm of the desert' we have the'storm' of amendments by SYRIZA - ANEL. Loss of people, loss of souls in the first case, loss of democracy in the second case. And how can we not have a loss of democracy when, in the way in which the government legislates, deprives the right to substantive dialogue within the temple of democracy? The way we legislated, this way that began two years ago, continues even today, despite the assurances we had from the government a year ago that this would change. Twenty - six articles will enter the chapter of other provisions when the bill itself has fewer articles. He is also co-responsible for the Minister, who has indeed given the assurance to the committees that no amendments will be made or, at least, he will be responsible. Its responsibility is at the moment signed in at least twenty amendments. No respect for the opposition parties, no respect for the representatives of the Greek people! So in an effort to ensure that parliamentary procedures are no longer ridiculed, your proposal finds the Centro Association in agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u66	Mr. Psarianos has the floor, because Mr. Danellis is not here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u67	Mr President, we have said many times, and I will say again, that when we have a bill or ratification of an agreement between Greece and Ukraine, for example, or with Saudi Arabia on certain matters, we have to ratify the agreement from behind a 'urban' of two hundred sixty-seven amendments on all matters, on whatever issue. For any set-up we have to do, for extensions of time, for recruitment, etc., for any set-up, a package of amendments, which is now a common practice. In the past we have always had this. As opposition SYRIZA was tearing up his clothes and we were all yelling together to stop this "fabrika" and now this is not just a "fabrika", but the usual parliamentary procedure has been done. This has got to stop last night! We have said that even when we agree with a differentiation, a modification of a provision, with one amendment, when they come as a package in unrelated bills we will be opposed. This has to be over, period and period.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u68	We are closing the series of representatives of the parties with Mrs Vaki. Mrs Vaki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u69	Thank you very much, Mr President. I don't think anyone will argue with your proposal. I will agree that this is how the process should be followed, but with regard to comments on a desert storm, you will also not disagree that we need a smooth legislature and that we should avoid a large number of amendments and, above all, last minute amendments. Of course, look, ladies and gentlemen, with no intention of making an easy opposition now: Those of you who break up your clothes for the large number of amendments, let us not forget some post-night legislative interventions and amendments of the last few years. I don't want to get into this conversation. I only want to say, and not defending the large number, that is the following: Deals are indeed many. It is because of the end of the year that there are some irreversible legislative loose ends and needs, which must be closed before the new year. There's also a pressure, if you like, social problems. It is also the urgency of society that forces us to table the last-minute amendments. Give an example. There's an amendment...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u70	It's for the best...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u71	Excuse me, yes, it's for the best, Mr. Loverdo. For example, the grant...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u72	Did I have to?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u73	Say the opinion without answering it. Please, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u74	Mr. Loverdo, not according to the beam and not selective. There is also the amendment to grant the reconnection of electricity to our poor fellow citizens. Is it good or bad?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u75	Now did you remember?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u76	Then the social invoice. We're settling loose ends.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u77	He's licking.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u78	You'll have time to tell them. Let's close the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u79	Wait a minute, ladies and gentlemen. There are deadlines for development law etc. In any case, I shall return to my speech. To close, I agree with the procedure that you propose and I have nothing to add.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u80	I'll give the Minister the floor for three minutes, although I don't see his hand, but I'm sure he wants to take the floor. Minister, you have the floor. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Which colleague wants the floor? Mr. Panagiotopoulos thought I wouldn't give the floor to someone from SYRIZA. Covered by Mrs. Vaki. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u81	I will agree that it will be good to try as little as possible to make amendments. That's obvious. However, here we do not need to create impressions and create a climate of extreme parliamentary practices. This isn't about it. Here we have an intervention, which in most of the amendments we have some extensions, which are by the end of the year. The second one, which - I think - we all have to recognise as a positive one is that this has also been the force which is very strongly opposed to the government in order to say half a good word about the bill. So let us discuss - I think - with the President's very functional proposal separately the amendments and the presence of the relevant ministers and move on. It would be very happy at some point if we could manage this thing not to happen. But not to shape a climate here too, that we have an anti-democratic diversion, a storm of space, and I don't know what else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u82	The House unanimously approves the amendment of the decision of the Conference of Presidents. Because I won't be until the end of the day, to write it down in the Minutes, I'll deliver it. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary representatives typically have six minutes and in the seconds there will be a tolerance of at least two minutes, and the same applies to the rapporteurs, who, seven and a half minutes ago, can go to ten minutes for the amendments. By way of derogation, I think you all agree on this, and perhaps we can find some way out, because extensions, but some extensions, such as the one on immigration, are not as simple an extension as that. Mr Katsi, you have the floor for 15 minutes, bearing in mind that you will have about ten more for the amendments. Do not waste time on the amendments now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u83	So, Mr President, we'll go at 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u84	Just as soon as, Mr. Loverdos, I see how many will be registered, I'll tell you the possible expiry time. Perhaps earlier, because four colleagues spoke in committee. It usually speaks twice the number of those who have spoken in committee. So we will know when Mrs Asmakopoulou ends when the first stage ends, as we have determined. Here, Mr. Katsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u85	As rapporteur, Mr President, I shall be placed on my amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u86	If you want, you can, but you will have ten minutes of denial, as we have said about the amendments. So, my opinion is that you should place yourself in your prototype on the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr President, you are very constructive and productive. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate at the National Delegation for the Resolution of the Ministry of Digital Policy is not taking place in a vacant manner. On the contrary, it is taking place at a particularly favourable juncture. A juncture that emerged from the methodical and effective work of the newly created Ministry of Digital Policy for National Space Policy, really for the first time in our country, and that is what we should recognise. The vote of today's bill will be the fourth act that will seal the preconditions for changing the country's page of technology and production. Recently we have had three major actions in the area of the exploitation of space technologies that mark the country's entry into a field that has so far been left, in my view, in its fate by the previous governments. And I'm explaining: First action. The Greek State's contract with Hellas SAT was ratified by the Parliament, which guaranteed Greek rights in Space in the geostatic position on the 39th east of Greenwich, while increasing the benefits for the public. This will create the first satellite station that will meet public needs for reliable and secure communications, particularly in cases of disasters, crises, access to remote geographical areas, etc. Second action. With the recent visit of the head of the European Space Agency of Mr.Verner, a memorandum of cooperation was signed with the Minister of Digital Policy Mr. Nikos Pappas for the creation of a centre for the development of newcomers, the so-called 'ESA - BIC BUSSINESS INCUMBATION CENTER'. The creation of the 'ESA-BIC' such as the initials of the centres which already operate successfully in ten European countries will help create standards business, and as you can see, it creates many jobs for young highly skilled scientists and helps produce high-value products. Third action. In a memorandum of cooperation with the Greek side, the German company 'OHB' also proceeded. The purpose of the agreement is to establish a joint company, which will be active in the construction of satellite and other space systems, involving Greek companies within the framework of national, European and international programmes. The "OHB" is one of three leading European companies in the space sector, having as main object the construction of low-speed satellites and geostatic satellites. So we are talking about attracting investment and, indeed, in the high-tech sector. We are now coming to the fourth action, which is the subject of this bill. As a result of this, the establishment of the Hellenic Space Agency and the framework for the licensing of Space Applications will substantially help our efforts to enter the global space industry market, whose annual turnover reaches $200 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, every serious country, which is planning and implementing a long-term strategy aimed at a strong position tomorrow, as shaped by technological developments, must be integrated into its design and space. When we talk about productive reconstruction, we need to think outside the dubbed and take advantage of the comparative advantages, such as our human potential. Our country is one of the few European Union countries which had neither a space organisation nor any specific legislation on the licensing of space activities, even when it is financially involved in the European Space Agency, but which does not receive the amount allocated to it from the relevant geo-return funds. The result of this non-existence is, on the one hand, the total lack of any form of coordination of actions, by which the country could exploit its rights in the field of Space and, on the other hand, the substantial, zero, commercial, scientific and research use, not by exploiting the number of applications and resources available from the European Space Agency. And it is a real pity that we consider the scientific potential available to our country, which is capable of supporting such projects, and that is evidenced by the fact that much of this potential pervades and operates abroad. We need the people watching us understand that when we talk about space applications, it's not as far away as it sounds. We are talking about things that we see in our daily lives, such as telecommunications systems, radio navigation, national security and civil protection applications, such as fire prevention and natural disaster prevention and so on. So we understand that any data from satellites is extremely important to get into a national strategy and to be properly exploited. There are companies in Greece today that operate multifacetedly in space. With the introduction of uniform rules and the establishment of the Hellenic Space Agency, we seek to give them a stable environment so that they can grow and offer structured economy and society. In particular, this draft law consists of three sections: firstly, a framework of rules on the licensing and control of space activities. Secondly, the procedure for the registration of space objects is laid down in a special register, based on the principles of international law. Thirdly, the Greek Space Agency, which as a public limited company of flexible form, is founded, under the supervision of the State, will assume the coordination of actions and the exploitation of the rights and resources of the Greek State in Space. I should like to stress at this point that a study and use of relevant practices and know-how, arising from the participation of the Greek state, both in international and, above all, in European bodies such as ESA, have been carried out. In the first section we have the preparation of national legislation on the exercise and supervision of space activities. This is for the first time and is aimed at establishing and strengthening our country's presence at international level, among the'space nations'. Greece is now complying with the international rules and principles governing the use of the Exomospheric Space, even if it is using space resources such as radio spectrum, used by telecommunications satellites, and the geostatic orbit, which each state can exploit for all kinds of military or commercial applications. It follows that, for reasons of legality, the authorisation and control of space activities must be granted. In the second section, we have the harmonisation of our country with the official institutionalised rules resulting from International Space Law, made up of European treaties, agreements and conventions by the United Nations. These agreements each state must respect them and ratify them in accordance with its national law. According to the above, it is established that Greece as a launching state has a responsibility for any damage caused by space objects launched in the Exotic Space. The provisions of the draft law provide for a national register where space objects launched in the Outermost Space are registered, which will henceforth be held in the Ministry of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, in accordance with predefined principles and procedures. In the third section of this draft law, the name ‘Greek Space Agency A.E.’ is hereby established under the supervision of the Ministry of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information. This is a flexible legal person who will be owned and supervised by the Greek State, which can take over, coordinate and carry out all the space activities. I have already said that our country is one of the few countries of the European Union which has not had an equivalent agency to date, and all the bodies called on the committees and have been placed with positive comments. The bill, also in the third section, defines the resources of the Hellenic Space Agency and the procedures for its staffing. The resources of the Agency shall be derived from the exploitation of rights and contracts, from sponsorships, revenues and financing from public undertakings, bodies of all kinds, funds of the European Union and other international organisations. Part of the positive result - this is important - the financial management of each use of the Agency is attributed to the State budget as a public revenue. Article 21 regulates issues of regular and urgent staffing of the Agency by appropriately qualified scientific staff, either by fixed-term contracts with an indefinite or secondment by executives of ministries, as well as by legal persons in the wider public sector. The staff of qualified high-level personnel from the global scientific and technological assets are required, since the Agency will have the necessary satellite and space know-how in central administration, will be very sensitive to national defence and security issues and systems as well as high-tech technologies as far as equipment is concerned. These peculiarities are exist and - if you like - they respond in the best way to the criticism of the New Democracy and the Antipolitics, that with the Greek Space Organisation the government seeks to create a "days". The Greek Space Agency aims to attract international experts working inside and outside the country. So he must be able to provide employment benefits and a working environment. So, in order to come to an agreement, the Civic Opposition and, more generally, the Opposition that reacts to the bill, what does it propose? To serve the organization by putting people of known prestige and international domination in the suffering of the AACC? I think we all get beyond it if the answer is affirmative. The New Democracy, in my opinion, considers the odds itself. What he did as a government, with the client state he created, is imaginative today. But since we caught the political criticism, I feel that elsewhere it is because of the embarrassment of the New Democracy and it invents pretexts so that it does not pass the bill. Mr Denkias has revealed this, which we have the honour of being here today, as the rapporteur of the New Democracy in the budget. When you asked our rapporteur in plenary, where would the New Democracy reduce expenditure if it were government - not to be done - you gave a list of agencies, including the Greek Space Agency, before it was established? Listen, listen! We haven't even finished voting for the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u88	You falsified it a little.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u89	I didn't humiliate it. It's just in the sixteenth minute of your position. In other words, the "excellent" of Harvard's counterpopulation and colleges write the scientific and business community in the oldest of their shoes, as well as the world-famous professor and honest Director of Space Programs at John Hopkins University, Mr. Stamatis Krimizis, or Mr. Jorge Sanchez, a representative of the Greek Cooperative Formation of Space Technologies and Applications, who supported the project from the outset, congratulating the Greek Government. We ask directly: is the New Democracy intending to deliver this sensitive area for the country's defence and security to private interests too? Or will he continue to condemn the country in digital regression, as he did as a government? We need to know, too, and the world who listens to us, what the positions of everyone are. Ladies and gentlemen, by closing down, the establishment of the Greek Space Agency and related space legislation is a national necessity and is not offered for micro-political purposes. With the signing of the two memorandums of cooperation for the creation of ESA BIC and the activation of the OHB in Greece, one of the most important manufacturers, the country recovers productively and improves its competitiveness. In fact, we are talking about high-skilled investment, newly-ingenious entrepreneurship and resuscitation of Brain drive, to contribute to changing the productive model to extroversion and high-tech technology. Our scientific community is given the opportunity to participate in projects that are really high, global and to develop peak products. At the same time, Greece's participation in ESA will also be upgraded to the European Space Agency, now having the possibility of a direct partnership with one of the leading companies in the space sector. As a culmination of all this, the Greek Space Agency will be the national body for the development and coordination of space policy and will be a useful partner of the state to undertake new initiatives. Modern Greece requires a strong and reliable Space Service, supervised by the state and operating for the benefit of public services, society and citizens. That is why I call on all of Parliament's wings with a view to the future, but above all to the new generation, to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u90	The new Republic's rapporteur, Mrs Anna - Michel Asmakopoulou, is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill of the Ministry of Digital Policy, today, deals with three things: the licensing of space activities, the establishment of the Greek Space Agency and the provisions on electronic communications. You know, Minister, in the field of space, one would say that we could find a field of understanding, agree on something, anyway. Because we are dealing with matters seriously and responsibly, despite the fact that I would like to remind you of this step forward that you have taken the efforts made by the Samara Government in relation to space policy. At the audience hearing, gentlemen from Kalamata came talking about the establishment of a space station there. You have made fun of this when you were opposition, as you have been mocking other things that are relevant to your current ministry - you seem to have not known then that you will have it - for example the free Wi-Fi, which Mr Samaras had announced at the time. As the philosopher people say, however, whatever you mock in life will sometime be called to serve it. So now you come and ask us in your way that we do not tremble the fact that in the present state of the country you are dealing with the establishment of a Greek Space Service. First of all, I would like to make it clear that I have no chance of ruining sixty minutes to pay every troll to scare the Space Service or any other project of yours, as it seems you have been doing lately. I also assure you that we are dealing with today's bill with great seriousness and responsibility. But I will make a comment, listening to your speech yesterday during the debate on the budget in Parliament. You tell us not to scare you about space. You'd better deal with Space, Minister, because it's obvious you've completely lost your contact with what's been said here on Earth. Here, on Earth, in Greece, we live in the country of capital control. Here, in Greece, the generation you have created, the EUR 360, the generation of part-time work, in an economy which does not grow at the same rate as it should have been, in an economy characterised by deinvestment, in an economy that is made every day by thousands of seizures, which have begun the auctions and which you have made our country a champion in increasing taxes. That's what's happening here on Earth. However, today we will discuss the bill on the establishment and establishment of the Greek Space Agency as due. A more general comment I would like to make. As always, Minister, your policy has the following characteristics: it is based on a lie and is characterised by ideology or incompetence or both. There is no difference in your current legislative intervention. I am also pleased that your legislative interventions are also characterised by unconstitutionalism. Let's go to today's legislative intervention. What is the lie on which the legacy of the Greek Space Service is based today? It is the lie, which you have said many times and which was shot down during the sitting we had, where the ESA spokesman, Mr Verner, came in, and confirmed what we asked him. The lie is we didn't have space policy in Greece. It was a failure of space policy in Greece. We haven't done anything all these years. Fortunately, you have come to deal with this with the establishment of the Greek Space Service. So let's go very briefly to see that lie. I will repeat them despite the fact that you have heard and confirmed them by Mr. Werner from the ESA at the last meeting. At the end of 2014, Minister, the ESA Committee on Industrial Policy confirmed and welcomed the policy of Greece and the successful cooperation of Greece - ESA on a successful geo-return policy. In particular, Greece appears to have an exceptional improvement in the provision of contracts under ESA's programmes, which contributed to the unprecedented achievement of higher than the one-off geographical return price for Greece, 1.06%. In other words, in order to come to an agreement, we have received more than we have given as a contribution to funding, also in order to come to an understanding, this translates around EUR 2.5 million. This was therefore published as a press release of the General Secretariat of Research and Technology which was responsible for this, and I am tabling it in the Minutes. [[At this point the Member, Mrs Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] It was also confirmed by the ESA report on 11 March 2015, which states that Greece is the best example of coordinated active management, where competitive champions have been dealt with and technological activities are carried out for the future. I am tabling the report of 11 March by the ESA. [[At this point the Member, Mrs Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned report, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] For 2015 now - we go to the next year - the achievements continue from the previous year. The price of the geographical return is now 1.31.31% more returns for research and development in the field of satellite and space applications. I am also tabling this report on the Minutes. [[At this point the Member, Mrs Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned report, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So for the lie that there was no successful space policy in Greece and you came to bring us with today's bill. What's the truth, Minister? The truth is, this bill doesn't bring it because you're interested in space policy in the country. The truth is that there are too many benefits from space policy, which we understand - Mr Verner said so - in air transport, in maritime transport, in railways, in tachographs, in the fight against smuggling, in exploiting geographical data from the 'COPERNICUS' system. We understand all this. We understood it before, and now we understand it. We also understand the importance of relying on the newly entrepreneurial entrepreneurship that is active in the field of space. At the same time, we want to return children and distinguished scientists from abroad. We all want that. Our objection is not in this respect. It is about how you legislate to achieve these objectives, which are ineffective and - I repeat - it is characterised by ideology and inability to apply them. And I am getting more specific, reverting to some of the issues you have partially answered, so I move further on to our debate on this. You continue, Minister, to be obsessed with your insistence to control everything you're making. Also, you have chosen a specific legal form - AEKO with characteristics of an anonymous company - while you have so many ambiguities within the bill, that it becomes virtually impossible for a newly created company to function, to get licensed in this environment. But it is also forbidden for those who operate. And it is much harder to operate in the environment that you legislate. As far as the Space Agency is concerned, we have told you why we have these specific objections to legal form and that there are issues of distortion of competition. I would once again draw your attention to an issue that we raised during the committee debate. In international organisations and international forms, we do not need to invent the wheel every time. We can be inspired by good examples internationally. You have created a confusion with the bill, first of all about who will represent the country in ESA. I am referring in particular to Article 28(4), as also to Article 18 of the bill, which creates a confusion between your role, the development on the one hand of the national space strategy and, on the other hand, the exploitation of the Community and other ESA funds - and not just - which exist to implement this strategy. Just to say, the legal form you have chosen, which has these elements of the public limited liability company, is an ECJ. Fifty times in the bill, everything the Minister does, everything that the Minister controls, even the verification of supporting documents. I sum up, saying what this bill is: it is a bill in a legal form which aims to facilitate the recruitment of 'days'. Its aim is to steal and exploit, as appropriate, the funds available under the logic "Yiannis buys, Yiannis drinks". You'll take off the strategy, you'll get the money. And what are you going to do with it, Minister? You will be recruiting them as a day. That's the bill. And that results from your idealism and your inability or both. I don't know. And you want to do that, and if you have good intentions in promoting the space strategy, maybe you don't just know how to achieve this. In any case, as Mr Mitsotakis said in his speech yesterday, the result is the same and it is a failure. I go further, Minister, to the rest of the bill. In order to extend the use of the ERT reserve, I hope that, at last, after three months, on Friday we have asked, you will come to Parliament to discuss - under parliamentary control - because you have made this option, not the choice to cover, as you should, the 'white' areas on the ground for people to watch television. We have - I would remind you - one of the highest coverage rates across Europe. But that does not mean we have to be satisfied. Everywhere they have to watch TV. And that's what we've taken care of. And now you are coming and, instead of doing so with Community funds, you are choosing to do so with the ERT reserve. And you bring a provision today, which extends your ability in general to exploit the ERT reserve. I would therefore ask that we leave this debate on Friday. Although we know what your initial position will contain, we say at some point you change your mind and recognize some things. So I'm going to the next topic, which is your favorite ERT, Minister, in which with this bill you make one more gift. I am referring to Article 28(1) of the draft law, which provides that the allocation of satellite capacity to the ERT for the broad broadcasting of commercial programmes in a reasonable way. I asked you in committee what'reasonable consideration' means, but I did not get an answer. How can the state sell to the ERT satellite spectrum without a competition? And I would like to clarify that I am not referring to the non-commercial exploitation that ERT is allowed to do as public television. I'm talking about commercial exploitation. Also, I did not get an answer from you - maybe something has changed since last time - for this amazing and spectacular decision I found in "DENMARKING" - which says that ERT has stopped counting its viewing because - as this document says - it does not have the necessary money to pay for this job, while you announce that it has a surplus. This surplus, of course, Minister, to come to an agreement, where does it come from? It comes from the fact that we pay our bills to keep the ERT. From this, then, you find the surplus money to make two hundred new six new recruits, while there is still no operational plan for ERT - I have asked for it a hundred times and there is no one, who gives it to me, because there is no - but you do not measure the viewing because you do not have enough money. In any case, Minister, this is all part of your well-known mission. Your mission was, is, and I think it will be, this type of media control effort that began with the well-known unconstitutional "Pappa Law". [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, because in my dentext I will speak very little, I would like to use a little bit of my time of dentistry now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u92	Keep going, Mrs. Asmakopoulou. Leave your dentistry time at the earliest. You'll have a little tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u93	Thank you. In this, then, the statusal effort resisted the S.H.E.L.D. The S.T.E. It is now what Mr Paulakis, if I am not deceived - yesterday I saw a tweet - says it means "Elit's Allied". I don't know, did I see it well? Would you like to make a comment on that, Minister? It's the Minister. It could have done it 'cut off' from somewhere - I don't know - and made it 'cut off' wrong. In any case, this attempt of your media control status continues. And it goes on with your legislation, which - we have invoked you and renounce you and we will see what is now going to happen in the competition - does not adequately cover the elimination of phenomena, such as the one we saw in the previous competition, that is to say, bringing the grassland of Ithaca to “from where you come”. You don't want to legislate on this. Last night, the Prime Minister asked us if we were really interested in 'outside'. The truth, however, is that you are only interested in the "subjects" of your political opponents. You are not interested in the "avoids" of your friends, who may be aspiring canalarchs and come to the competition and put pastures. And because, Minister, yesterday I read that seven companies were interested in the competition - and I think who might come down - and because we do not want to blame you, but we also want absolute transparency and we want to know relations, I tell you today that we have tabled a question and a request for documents - they are to you and Mr Euklidis Tsakaloto - on the control of the origin and legitimacy of the company's capital published by the paper 'DOCUMENTO'. As far as I can see, this newspaper was founded by Mr. Ioannis - Vladimir Kalogritsa, with whom - I say to you that I have a reservation and I speak in public - they tell me that you have a personal relationship. That's what they tell me. I would like - here is the opportunity - to clarify it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u94	The bill, Mrs. Asmakopoulou, is that what you're saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u95	I'm talking about the bill. Does the Minister need a defense? If the Minister needs a cheek, he'll yell. You don't have to. The Minister's listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u96	Mrs. Asmakopoulou, don't answer. I'm interfering with this. But hang up with this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u97	I'm going on, Mr. President. I asked a question about the Minister's relationship with Mr. Kalogerica. If he wants to answer, if he doesn't want to, he won't answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u98	Good. When it is time for the Minister to speak, he will judge whether or not he will answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u99	So, in the context of the question, we ask Mr Tsakalotos how a one-faced IKE is, in the end, with a chapter of EUR 20 000 - here I have the registration of GEH - to issue one - I will not talk about the quality of the paper 'DOCUMENTO', but I shall say that you are also calling it a luxurious version - a regular newspaper like that? How is that possible? You, Mr. Pappa, we ask you to tell us...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u100	If he's a friend of mine, gorgeous!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u101	Not only if you're a friend of yours or a best friend of yours, or I don't know what. We're asking you to tell us how much money you give him to advertising. That's what we're asking.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u102	Complete, Mrs. Asmakopoulou. I can't show any more tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u103	I shall conclude, Mr President. Mr Papa, we are voting against the bill, because it is a bill in the legal form of hay, a space vehicle of 'days', a fund-raising vehicle with the logic 'Yannis is buying, Yannis drinks'. And I close with a comment on your speech yesterday in plenary, where your understanding of the Ministry appears. You talked twelve minutes about anything else and three minutes about the Ministry, because of course you have nothing to say. Your work is completely nonexistent. There are no new works. They keep moving. We've been through this. You rent new private buildings and you renovate them. This is your Ministry's budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u104	Mrs. Ammakopoulou, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u105	Your motto, Minister - if I have listened well - is 'we bring tomorrow for everyone'? Is that your motto? The reality, however, is that all you care about is not fair digital development, it is not to bring tomorrow to everyone today. What you are interested in is to check today, so tomorrow is a day that will find you sitting in your chairs and nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u106	Mr. Maniotis told us he was at a meeting with Mrs. Gennimata. I'm not erasing him, because he'll be here later. Mr Panagiotis Iliopoulos has the floor on behalf of the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u107	Mr President, I have to be gone for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u108	Yes, Minister. Mr. Eliopoule, for reasons of high urgency, the Minister will be absent. He'll be back in a few minutes. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr President. The concept of the project on the establishment of a Greek Space Agency undeniably reflects the needs of a state that seeks to secure international prestige, but also a strong foreign policy and a strong economy. The establishment of a Greek Space Agency provides Greece with a long-term planning that will enhance the development of Greek activity in Space. Greece, standing in the light of a nationalist state regime, which requires a purely nationalist economy aimed directly at independence, self-sufficiency and self-sufficiency, must seize the opportunity to attach itself to the chariot of the space industry. Sectors such as shipping, rural and generally the primary sector are certainly the strong cards of a worthwhile and respected national economy. However, this is already growing in the space sector, which offers a wide range of applications and innovations to the structures of the abovementioned sectors and constitutes a strong arm in the field of National Defence. In this respect, with tourism, the consequences are exceptionally beneficial if the benefits provided are properly assessed. With the creation of a lively field of entrepreneurship geared to space, an area of entrepreneurship benefit and private initiative is automatically marked, which, of course, will contribute to the social needs of the national community as a whole. The Golden Dawn, therefore, empowers a strong national economy and expressly supports research, entrepreneurship and science. Clearly space applications can contribute to social life and commercial development. On the other hand, there is a need to repatriate all the worthwhile scientists who are working abroad. And such an undertaking would be positive in that direction. Our refusal, therefore, is not about the need to set up such a space organisation, but about the current economic climate, social circumstances, but also about the overriding pursuits of the uneven Syrian structure. The strict economic austerity, the obscene Memorandum Policy and, in general, the current situation of the deceived economy make such an undertaking impossible, due to the high economic risk. Rescheduling the national economy, as a pillar of national independence, is only achieved through the theory of concentric circles. In other words, priorities are being set from within outwards and a strong state is thus built, economicly, administratively, militaryly and geopolitically. First, social fabric is reconstructed by the forced savage memorial loot, then national and social policies are drawn up, economic consolidation is carried out through rationalisation of the insurance and tax system, followed by a rise in key pillars and the reconstruction of the productive structures that support the national economy, and finally, the policies that will define and extend this force are defined. Taking into account the disastrous memorial policy of the SYRIZA - ANEL, it is not surprising that such a huge dimension and specifications, a great project and a high technological risk, are in the midst of a savage social and political instability and uncertainty. The government, which is taking the lead in a range of national failures and revolvers, the government that has become identical to fraudulent political deception, unreliability and cubism and which expresses an unprecedented endlessness in a series of major national issues, is now coming to convince us of the need for a Greek Space Agency. So we say yes to the establishment of such an agency, but not from you, so we will vote against this bill. We have also said so in committee: you do not inspire us any confidence that you can build such an agency that really serves national interests. Because such an organisation, such a high-tech, should primarily help the national defence, the economy. With another government, it could achieve all this, that is to say, helping both the national economy and the national defence, tourism. We talked about it in our report. However, since you have shown us an incredible intimacy on all these issues, we have no confidence in you for this reason alone - to be clear - while we believe that Greece should have such a body - I repeat, to be recorded in the Minutes, for this reason alone - we will vote against the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u110	Thank you very much, Mr Iliopoulou, and for the brief time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u111	We shall come back to the amendments, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u112	Okay, and in that respect, you'll have tolerance, because you've only talked for five minutes. Mr. Synthrakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Space is an unexplored space, mysterious, emits the interest of people, countries and states. The big question is not only whether Greece has the right or the ability to exploit the technological applications to exploit the Space and, of course, to have its own space organisation - who would, after all, disagree on it? - but, in conjunction with this, if any use of technology and by extension of space - with its own satellites, its own orbital position, etc. - is subject to the fulfilment of social needs, to the further development of science, research, telecommunications, environmental and human protection from flooding and seismic phenomena, health, shipping, development and protection of agricultural production, the country's national security. Taking into account the debate in committees so far, the positions of the Government, the parties, the bodies invited to express an opinion and the information from the Director-General of the European Space Agency the other day, confirm what the JRC told you, that both the establishment of the Hellenic Space Agency, as an anonymous company, the establishment of a legal framework for the licensing of space activities and the delivery of the country's tracking position to the private "HELLAS SAT" group contribute to the further privatisation, commercialisation of the Space, the submission of the technological space applications of science and research, the competitiveness of monopolistic groups and their profitability, the militarisation of the Space on behalf of imperialist quests and the strengthening of the repression against the working people. No relation to all of this with popular prosperity, the so-called peaceful aims - which the ESA Director-General told us the other day, as if he were addressing indigenous people - with social development and progress, with the fulfilment of people's needs. These are, ladies and gentlemen, the European Union's space strategy - in the context of the aims of the European monopolistic groups - to be dynamically involved in global competition for space, to be involved in the smooth use of space, which, as is said, is EUR 200 billion per annum by means of space technology to control energy, telecommunications, transport, shipping and logistics. After all, the above raw and cynically said by the ESA Director-General himself that the European Union must have its own competitive space sector vis-à-vis Russia, the US, China and other imperialist forces, regardless of whether they at some point bridge any contradictions in the interests of the competitiveness and profitability of monopolistic groups or for the same uninterrupted operation of the capitalist system. Also, most of the operators - representatives of business groups directly confessed that the draft law, which we are discussing, is the great opportunity to develop business action in the Space and, indeed, that the domestic industrial capital in the space technology sector was, until now, the 'poor relative' in the European Union, now claims to get a large part of the profits from the international and European commercial space market. That is why the appeal to the European Parliament's recent plenary, which the JRC also voted against, calls for an increase in the European Union's spending on its space policy and for funds from its regional funds to be directed at the capital for the development of relevant technology in the space-based university research service of business groups. The arrangements that the draft law wants to pass are fully in line with the European Union's guidelines on the space strategy. In the context of the most acute competition, they pave the way for domestic business groups, through the introduction of the legal framework for the licensing of space activities, to get into the game for space business, and even a part of the pie from the global space market is fruited. After all, these business business business has already started with the public-private partnership method, with the State and the Government at first glance at the satellite building plant in Greece and the establishment of a new, small and medium-sized enterprises in the first phase, in cooperation with the European Space Agency's respective temporary incentives, such as free internet, cheap rents, other subsidies, which will first lay the foundations to be absorbed by monopolies or used as business satellites for using their patents and know-how. In fact, they invest, and the government invests in its arguments to be more convincing, in the account of the alleged use of new scientists, in their return from abroad. Even so, you are calling on them to use - as was said during the debate and indeed by the representatives of business groups who were here and were interested - to promote business plans with broken rights, with hunger wages and fixed-term contracts, with a block and other inventions of flexible labour relations and with employers' terrorism to "beat bones". In order to "solve the pill" of the reactionary arrangements of the draft law on a topic admittedly impressive and unprecedented, such as that of the Space, and not to easily understand its intentions, the Government raises the so-called benefits of very cheap consideration, equal to entertaining impressions. The establishment of the Hellenic Space Agency, as a legal person governed by private law, in practice abolishes the role of the General Secretariat of Research and Technology and an anonymous company plays a role as coordinator of public bodies and ministries in order to work more quickly in the system of the commercial use of data by European programmes and the sale of the country's space rights. These features, however, are that facilitate trade, privatization of the country's space activities. Ladies and gentlemen, experience so far shows that the use of Space is necessary for the effectiveness of imperialist interventions. To claim that the use of Space for military purposes is something that has not been attempted or done, would be funny, at the least naive, for unrelated. The use of Space is increasingly the symbol of military superiority. After all, wars in the conditions of the new order show this, from Iraq to Kosovo and Afghanistan, Syria, Libya and elsewhere. It was the satellite data and the air superiority that was exploited in these imperialist coron interventions. It seems to me that the European Union is increasingly counting on this reality. The European Union seeks, as the Director-General of the ESA yesterday told us, autonomy in accessing and using the Space, in relation to the other Imperialist centres from the West or from the East, as he said, by means of the United States of America and Russia. This is precisely this role that they are coming to play, the GALILEO and CoPENICUS programmes, which you call and you are proud of and which largely promote the military use of space by the European Union, whether indirectly with spy satellites, with military communications, with drones such as the United States of America, but also directly, bearing in mind that the Treaty does not prohibit any use of weapons in the Space, such as motor bombardment weapons. That is why the European Union is further strengthening these programmes. The European Union's staff are still seeking to combine the European Union's space policy with the Common Security and Defence Policy, thus making use of the Space in its aggressive imperialist policy. It is indicative that the report of the competent committee of the European Union calls for the use of space instruments to deal with immigration, the maintenance of the European Union's external borders, the fight against terrorism and in general the strengthening of all the repressive mechanisms of the European Union and its Member States. The NSA said so yesterday completely innocent and compassionate about refugees and immigrants. On the one hand, they cause wars, deaths and refugee with the participation of the European Union, the imperialist wars or the challenge of them from it, the European Union, and on the other hand the use of the space, its funding to help refugees. What liars and hypocrites, really. Also, particularly dangerous is the correlation between the draft law and its objectives with Greek foreign policy, the geopolitical and geostrategic pursuits of the country. The draft law itself makes a clear link between space activities and Greek foreign policy, the Minister himself mentioned it when discussing the draft law on committees. Except that the country's geopolitical and geostrategic pursuits have identified them with the interests of big capital, NATO and the European Union, which, among other things, face the Space as an opportunity for profitable investment for monopolies and at the same time as a tool for militarisation of the European Union and the so-called European Union's 'policy security'. A foreign policy, however, involving the country in very dangerous toys and very clearly reflected in the recent agreement, with which the SYRIZA - ANEL Government provides great support for the dangerous plans of the United States, the wider region of the Eastern Mediterranean and the Balkans, claiming upgraded roles. This is not what the Communist Party of Greece says, the American Ambassador confirms them, even saying that the bilateral relationship today is better than it has been for many decades. Indeed, Mr Tsipras' recent visit to the United States of America was incredibly successful. Of course! How was it not, having agreed all that was agreed or, at least, what has been made public to upgrade the Souda base, the other military infrastructure. It turns out for once how barbaric and dangerous the exploitive capitalist system and the imperialist associations that serve it are. The Space, ladies and gentlemen, has irresponsible capabilities, which can actually help to develop a country and a people, provided that they serve him under conditions of working people's power. It could indeed cover a wide range of communication problems in the country, such as the provision of multi-television programmes, the transmission of information and communication, the use of satellite technology. It could make a major contribution to the treatment of natural disasters, to transport, to the rural economy, to all sectors of the economy, by linking technology, to the results of research with socialised production. However, objectively, with capitalism, which means of production are capitalist property and labour force commodity, Space and the use of technical means are being merged, do not allow the development of productive forces and the development of technical and scientific achievements, for the benefit of popular prosperity, wider social progress. For the Communist Party of Greece there is a pluralist way out and therefore also a pluralist utilization of the Space. Many examples and experience of the Soviet Union's conquests for Space, its exploitation, which has liberated important productive forces and enormous technical capabilities. The radically different development path that the JRC defends contrasts with the state and power of monopolies. It recommends and requires socialisation of the specific means of production, scientific centralisation, development of science and research on the basis of socialised production and use of results for the benefit of the people. It requires, of course, above all, the conquest of labour power by exploiting the international alliances and oppositions of the opponent. On the basis of all the above, Mr President, the JRC is voting against this draft law in principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u114	Thank you too, Mr. Synchronous. You were right on time. My colleague has the floor from the Independent Greeks, George Lazarides.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr President. I cannot leave what the Opposition once again said in an endless move of political autism. That explains why she's finally left alone. We have heard the representatives of the institutions here. All of them were placed positively against the bill, except for the Opposition and especially the Civic Opposition. The opposition said here to the Minister: "Your favorite ERT". Oh, for God's sake! ERT is the favorite of all Greeks. In particular, we, who are members of the Committee of Deputies of Hellenism, remember with emotion the placement of the representatives of the Greeks of the earth and what excitement and feelings they speak of ERT. What the democrats are saying here every time, whenever we have them, is that this link between the country and the Democrat Hellenism is kept alive with culture, that is, with the cultural programmes that ERT has, but also with various courses or other programmes that are carried out in relation to the learning of the Greek language, which ERT contributes to the maximum. Of course, the ERT that it doesn't do is to accept and give notes during interviews, etc. In fact, ERT is hard on them. He doesn't do that. Others go and the notes come to the interviews. I'd like to say something else now. I heard the Opposition took care of the TV coverage of all Greece. I do not know where Greece is stopping for the opposition, but Thrace and the Greek critics now, in the last year, have been given the opportunity to contact and inform the Greek channels, with a brave programme of this government, in which people were subsidised for the acquisition of satellites in order to be able to watch Greek channels and radio stations, because as yet they were bombarded by Turkish, Bulgarian and other media. I have heard something else - and I cannot go beyond that - about the situation of this government. But is it possible for someone who has been ruling this place for for forty years to characterize a government that has only completed two and a half years, a statute? For God's sake! They had a statusal perception of those who had secured the seas, and so forth. for their parties, but also for the means by which this well-known interdependence existed. Before I come to comment on the bill, I would like to say one more thing. Yesterday, but also when there was a debate, it was not about the "subject" of any politics. The debate - and whenever the subject has been raised - has taken place on the "subject" spouse of a leading state-state agent - you can see who I am talking about - who is in the party of Officerial Response. Whenever people who own offshore companies have been discovered, according to a strange coincidence they belong to your party, all of them. In fact, the answer he gave to your party, when the revelations were made about your wife, as I said before, the leading state factor belonging to your party, was even more tragic than the revelation. He said he had to have the offshore company, because only in this way could there be cooperation with the various funds he cooperates with. I mean, from bad to worse. What are the funds? It is these groups that operate in secret, buy loans from different countries that are in trouble or from citizens, thus squeeze them out, buy loans at 10% or below that, and then demand them at 100%. In other words, the answer was worse than the fact itself. Anyway, we're moving on. As far as the bill is concerned, I think the opposition, as I said in the committee, was absent from here, because with its position, one concludes with two conclusions: or the opposition was absent from the room in which we listened to the representatives of the institutions or did not come to present their views here. Everyone, but all the bodies, without being excluded, stood from positive to overly positive next to the bill. I would like to stress this very quickly, because it is really impressive how they were put in place. I am starting with the professor, Mr Krimizis, who said: 'A need must have been implemented for thirty years'. Detecting Mr. Krimizis. I am going to go to Mr Potsi, who said: 'It is, at last, something that will help our country to come out of the situation'. It is well known, of course, who brought the country into the situation it is. That government didn't bring it. This government is pulling the country out of this situation in which the two parties put it. Jorge Sanchez said: "Congratulations for the establishment of the body. For the first time, we will have a national strategy. The Space is no longer treated as a fragmented assumption that various Ministries shared pieces.’ Mr. Christodoulos Papadopoulos said: "This is an important bill." Mr. Georgakopoulos, professor, said: “The things that were done by other countries Greece cannot do.” That was the culture of the former governments." I'm putting them in introductorys, because I'm transferring them to you exactly as the professor said. Mr Michalitsis said: 'Finally for ERT'. Of course, all right, the ERT doesn't like it very much, it has said that and it says it every time. An important information institution for all citizens, for opposition, is not. And something else Mr. Michalitsis said really cannot shock us all, because it brings us memories of disasters. Mr Michalissis said that there was no single management body for the crisis and was referring to the fires and the various other disasters. To be clearer, if there were what we are talking about today in the major disasters and fires in the Peloponnese - I am making a reference to the Peloponnese, because there really was a lot of victims - all the services, fire and military could have been able to do much less. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law clearly reflects our country's willingness not to remain technologically back, but to develop and exploit satellite technology and innovative applications in various areas of development. Of course, a framework of rules and conditions had to be laid down in order to achieve this, and this promotes this draft law. In particular, in the first part, Greece is drawing up national legislation on the exercise of space activities, thereby strengthening its role and presence at international level between the space nations. The procedure for the authorisation and registration of space objects in a register - file is required for reasons of effective compliance with the law at international level, as assessed in the explanatory statement. As before the establishment - for the first time in Greece - of a space organisation with coordinating and decisive responsibilities, the necessity is obvious. Greece is one of the few European Union countries that does not have a corresponding body in order to exploit its rights of trade, scientific and research in space, as well as the many research and scientific applications and resources available from European and international organisations. This is why an anonymous company is recommended under the name "Greek Space Agency S.A.", "ELDO S.A." and the company's purpose is specified for the exploitation of the rights of the Greek State in satellite and space items to provide the intended public assistance regarding satellite and space issues, participation in European and international organisations, design of relevant programmes, development of partnerships, exchange of knowledge, etc.. At this point we should mention that national security issues are planned to maintain administrative and operational autonomy of the Ministry of National Defence in relation to the company, as regards the space programmes and applications serving the national defence. Among other things, the company regulates the obvious issues of internal operation, security and staff grading, protection of personal data and confidential information, as well as control of the company and other provisions. We hope that new technologies will bring significant improvement to the daily lives of citizens, as they will consistently cover the particular needs of remote areas with wider network coverage, while in the primary sector the use of digital applications in agriculture will optimise production, so the local and national economy. Space can play an important role in improving everyday life, in economic development, in the functioning of the state and, of course, in the security and defence of the country. Apart from that, this is a flagrant need for our country, which has been highlighted for many years, something that we have also realised from the whole scientific world during the meetings. The country needs the Greek Space Organization. Greece is one of the few European Union countries that does not have a corresponding body in relation to other states in order to exploit its rights of trade, scientific and research in space, as well as the many research and scientific applications and resources available from European and international organisations. We must have a national space strategy, which will invest money in the country, in the part of research and development, in the development of products and organised we will go abroad. The establishment of this organisation will be a reference point for all international and transnational programmes, as well as for the creation of a single policy from the country in both space for telecommunications space and for the various applications in everyday life. We therefore consider this move to be a genuinely structural change from what the country needs, a move that will contribute to the economy and succeed in attracting very significant investment in the country, but also bringing back research projects and, above all, our worthy scientific potential. Ladies and gentlemen, we need coordination, programming and strategic framework for the country's participation in space. The draft law strengthens, organises and ensures our presence in space. We cannot be opposed to this and to the opportunities opened up in a constantly growing range of trade and economic activities. The Independent Greeks support our country's effort not to remain technologically back, but to develop and exploit satellite technology and innovative applications for its benefit. And the Independent Greeks are positive in the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u116	Mr Ioannis Saridis has the floor from the Centroon Union.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u117	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, who truly doubts that we should take the country out of the problems it has encountered? I believe no one. We must legislate in that direction. And that cannot be called into question. It's our responsibility. It's everyone's responsibility. It's a collective responsibility. So many words are poverty. How we can dress up a bill with which we agree or do not agree is poverty. The country's civilian personnel are invited to give solutions. The government is called upon to give solutions. The opposition is proposing its own solutions, which, if possible, can be taken into account by the government, perhaps in better days. Solutions and guidelines clearly, with design, with purity. Anything else does not give solutions, does not lead out, does not lead to tomorrow with certainty. It sometimes makes it more gray. He's in trouble. Everything that's not clear from the outset gives rise to misinterpretations is causing problems. And we see this in front of us in the future. The Central Association, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, will vote 'at present' in this very important bill. I have to say that he is forced to vote 'at present'. The main reason why we are not voting against this bill is the fact that we, too, agree that the time has finally come for our country to acquire a modern and clear framework for space activities and for a body that offers the necessary support to the efforts of more than three thousand Greek scientists who have been against the current and are struggling under adversely confessed conditions, but also to be able to turn back on some other scientists who have left to support this collective effort of our country. The Ministry's proposal is divided into three chapters. In the first chapter and in Articles 1-17 we are legislating a regulatory and regulatory framework for the operation and coordination of space activities. And while we all admit that this framework is extremely necessary, if we naturally want to stop being a piggyback in the compared area, we find it difficult to believe that what is included and provided for in Articles 1-17 is sufficient and that there will be no need for further changes and corrections and very soon. The international liability of the Greek State is therefore laid down in Articles 11 and 13 for any damage which may be caused by objects. So we have to be very careful and know that during adventure, called space exploration and exploitation, every mistake can cost dearly. The process of licensing space activities must be very strict, but it must be equally flexible and not allow opportunities to be lost because of bureaucracy. Whether to strike a balance between exclusion on the one hand and opportunistic and clipboard proposals, on the other, of really innovative and innovative ideas, will show this thing along the way. One cannot predict whether the proposed framework will stand up to the tests which will be exposed to the operation of the markets, nor whether it will be able to protect the start-up companies that will try their luck. That is why it is of particular importance that you have chosen - and rightly in my opinion - as the basis for your legislative initiative the peaceful standards that the UN has ratified in 2013. The provisions of the second chapter are established and managed by the Hellenic Space Agency, which will be entrusted with all the responsibilities arising from the first chapter. So this chapter also identifies most of the objections of the Centro Association, which lead essentially to the vote and the position of the'residence'. In fact, we have also made a joint proposal with my colleague Mr Lazarides, the ANELs, for the participation of a representative of the Ministry of National Defence in the administration of the organization, the fate of which, to date, we are not aware of this step. We would like your position, Minister, on this subject, on why this proposal has not been accepted. What is the thought on which you have not accepted it? Article 18 establishes a TEC under the name ‘Greek Space Organisation S.A.’. You have attempted to support the legal form you have chosen, talking about the criticality of the role of speed in decision-making and implementation. The red tape is a deadly enemy for space activities. We, too, understand this particular need for flexibility in matters relating to the functioning of the Agency. Things are very often judged in seconds and any unnecessary and unnecessarily delay can have too many and difficult, fatal, consequences. We are not convinced, however, that this mixture you are proposing will work well. Are we also able to achieve this degree of functionality, this fight against bureaucracy and ultimately success? Have other ECEIs achieved the purpose for which they have been created? Do we have any TECH experience that operate over time without any problem? On what model are we going to rely on? What good example do we have to imitate? This is Space. With what example are we going? Errors are forbidden. Unfortunately, we all know the answer. [[The President-in-Office of the Council, Mr DIMITRIOS KAMMEINOS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] So these are the reasons that lead the Centroon Union to'represent'. History will judge us all. Our concerns and concerns are recorded here in this Chamber and outside this Chamber. The fact that we should not stay behind is necessary and generally understandable. How and how we go ahead is something that is questioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u118	Mr George Amyras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will begin with some of the amendments, because to a certain extent there is a similarity - I would say - with the draft law, that too many things refer them to ministerial decisions and then we go from an extension to an extension to the application of the law. See, for example, the amendment to the fan card and the capital value of anonymous football companies. I remind you, ladies and gentlemen, in particular of SYRIZA, that in 2015 this law was passed and we voted for it because we said, of course, that the fan card should be applied, for example. Then I told the Minister responsible, as I said in the previous committees to the dear Mr. Pappas: “Why do you not set timetables? Why do you refer all the substantive rules of the law to joint ministerial decisions and decisions?’ So I said then that I'm afraid the law will never be implemented. From 2015 until today, three years have passed, and this is the fourth extension of the measure of the fan card, so that we know in simple terms what fan sits where, so that we begin to deal with this phenomenon of violence on the stadiums. In fact, the last extension was granted in June 2017. It was then my colleague, Mr Mavrotas, who told the Minister responsible, Mr Vassiliou: "I want to make a bet that you will not make it by 31-12-2017. So add the extension until 2021, so that we can celebrate the two hundred years of the Greek Revolution and the fan card." I bet there wouldn't be another extension and that's where Mr Vasiliadis lost it. I don't know what the plea was, but Mr. Vassiliou owes Mr. Mavroy something to this extension. I am telling you this, ladies and gentlemen, because in this draft law too many ministerial decisions have been taken on many important issues, such as timetables, how the Hellenic Space Agency will be served, with what kind of contracts, in what way. Other issues in particular, such as space programmes, their adoption or not, are also referred to. However, I come to another very important amendment, which we will vote against, as will the new fourth extension for the implementation of the fan card. You should come and say that we do not manage, give us another three - four years on various issues than go for a six-month extension. So I come to the amendment tabled by the Ministry of the Environment by a general number of 1376 and a specialist 25 concerning the extension of a single licence for two more years for lignite plants. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a serious matter and I will wait for the Minister responsible to come and talk about it. Because what's going on here? In white, single permit is granted for all lignite plants for another two years. This means that the judicial review, the administrative control, is legally referred to. And nowhere in any serious country in the world, it is not allowed to allow the energy industries to pollute the environment. You want me to tell you the evidence? They're elements of the Ministry of the Environment. So listen: Amyntai is seven and a half times - look out! - on average above the new emission limit for sulphur dioxide or thirteen times the limit set for new plants. The three chimneys of Agios Dimitrios are three to six times higher than the environmental limits for industrial emissions. The two units of the Heart SA emit more than sixty times more particles for the new units and thirty times for the existing units. St. Dimitrios and Heart emit twice as much nitrogen dioxide as the permitted limit. This unacceptable process has been going on for sixteen years. For the last sixteen years, while for every lignite plant there has been a separate licence, there has been a isotope permit for all, so that the plants can operate in this polluter and deadly way for the environment. I find that really unacceptable. It's unauthorized! I also want to tell you one more thing. For the first time in the history of the Compliance Committee of the International Treaty of Argos, Greece is accountable, on the basis of complaints, for what I have said to you, namely, that the emission is often above normal pollutants and hazardous particles for human health and the environment. In particular, a complaint was lodged, which was admissible on 13 September 2017. And it is the first time in the history of the institution which complains of a Greek case is accepted and accepted. Know that, unfortunately, this will not have a good future. I fear that Greece will suffer some retaliation, so to speak. However, in the same logic as previous governments were following, the SYRIZA - ANEL government is taking over and doing the same. You tell me some kind of industrial installation - one! - who won't get his license through public administration and take it by law. Tell me one example. There's no one! I also want to say this. The three who have a separate licence, i.e. the PPC of Kardia, Amyntai and Agios Dimitrios, which are by far the most polluting of the others, are included in the sales package of PPC's units, which we hear from the institutions. So here we have serious issues to resolve, and I hope that the answers from the relevant ministers will be given when they come. I will give you another example. Citizens' Registry of the Ministry of Interior. Correct measure. We had voted in favour of it, too. What would I put into this amendment that gives extension again because you failed? We didn't make it again. Is that how we legislate? Extension to prolongation? Is this a way of legislating and assisting the government to stand on its feet? Not even the Citizens' Registry? What's the essence? That extension of validity is granted to the manuscriptd acts. Welcome to the past, welcome to the 17th century! I come now to the draft law. I have much more to say about the amendments, 20 or twenty-one. We are also listening to an amendment which the Ministry of Justice will probably bring in to circumvent the Ice Bay decision not to issue the eight Turkish officers in Turkey. We just hear it. We read it in some media. I would like to know whether there is any intention by the government to make such a regulation and to avoid justice. I hope not. We'll see. We're coming to this draft law. I have two things to say here. Most of us have said so at the previous meetings of the committees. You know our attitude. We are positive and will vote in favour of the draft law in principle. Of course, we will see how we will be placed in various articles. We'll be negative to someone. I generally do not want a Minister, whoever he is, to decide on the vital issues of the Space Agency. I'd prefer other procedures. I also do not agree that the establishment of the new organisation is actually done in the form of an ECEI. We have seen how the ECIs operate in Greece. We have seen that there is opacity in the way they control their finances. We've seen that they don't pay financially as they should pay. We've seen how slow the decision-making processes are. I think that space wants more tachina - so to speak - methods of administration, if I may say so. I mean, there's got to be spunk, and there's a speed. The global space market has a turnover of 350 billion euros. Greece has the claims, it has the people who can claim part of this market. Already, with our very small powers, the Greek Space Technology and Applications Industry, in particular these small industry and state-of-the-art units, make every year exports of such space material, up to 100m euros. It's small, but it's a start and it shows that in a chaotic situation some people are trying, they have people, they have the know-how to move forward. There would be much better bonding of the Greeks' attempt to conquer the space, to say for example, if we had universities, where their laboratories and rooms would not be permanently occupied, they would not be permanently subject to vandalism, when there would be a connection between the research of education and production in terms of benefit to both sides. Also, the issue for us is to have a development strategy, to have a roadmap on how Greece will get closer to space, to say it in advance again. Ladies and gentlemen, the other countries are already capitalising their benefits from participation in high-tech projects, making use of the great potential in the fields of research, technology, defence, the environment, agriculture, the economy and trade, and I hope that this will happen here in our country as well. I fear, however, that even from a small point of view that I see emerges from the draft law, namely the parallel operation of the Hellenic Space Organisation and the Space Policy Council, possibly, to create delays and overlap. And to conclude by asking about ERT, Minister, 28: What could these ERT's trade programmes be? What is this reasonable consideration and how will it be paid? And finally, which areas of Hellenism will be covered by the ERT programme? I shall conclude with that, Mr President, my first speech and I shall come back to the amendments. But consider in particular what I told you about the lignite plants, which all have a single permit, without the administration having any opportunity to control them any more. It's important. They are polluters, they have an end date, and we should somehow see how we get rid of the polluter lignite of medium and poor quality, unfortunately, that we have in Greece. I am not saying that we should abandon this fuel under any circumstances. This is also part of our national wealth. But should we, from one foot to the other, focus on renewable energy sources?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u120	In 50% we'll limit lignite.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u121	How will you limit the lignite? Since you are now renewing his license to the most polluting plants. How do you say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u122	This is gradually happening.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u123	Oh, gradually. It gradually means like the fan card, which for three years has now taken four extensions?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u124	The fan card has been applied.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u125	And I come back with the last sentence. On all the extensions you have to make, either for the fan card or for the lignite units of PPC, give an extension until 2021, as I told you, to celebrate the two hundred years since the Greek Revolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u126	Thank you very much Mr. Amyras. Mr Maniotis has the floor from the Democratic Reconciliation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u127	Ladies and gentlemen, once and twice, speaking from the Step of the House, I have said that if we wish to sanctify, you do not leave us. Now is the third time. For a good bill at first, with very bad articles, one could say that it could collect the agreement from several aspects of Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the bill you want to discuss. Do you see it? And these are the late amendments that the government is tabling at night and deeply insulting you, the government-majority majority, calling on you to discuss them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u128	Not a night!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u129	If you are not ashamed and are not demanding that your Government does not bring five and ten times the volume, scope or quality of amendments to a bill which invites you to discuss, then the problem is not just a government, it is yours and personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u130	We don't understand...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u131	I know you don't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u132	Ladies and gentlemen, let us not have a dialogue. Please leave the speaker. Then there are other speakers and you will be opposed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u133	The evil is that after three years you do not understand the obvious, nor the profound insult of Parliament, nor the insult of popular sovereignty, nor the insult of the institutions that you, as elected by the people, are supposed to protect. So since you feel proud to remain and continue in this direction. Already the curse is visible in all the polls. And we are very pleased about that, because everyone will take their place in the political scenery, too quickly. Minister, it was really - to relax a little - your first space achievement. You made it. Another Minister - I think - has not succeeded in such a bill having brought so many amendments. Do not show me the provisions that have been abolished, nor the result of the public consultation. You know, unfortunately, the issue of legislative curiosity, which is a key feature of this government, allows you to behave as if the state and the national Parliament were your feud. You live in a cloud of governmental complacency. But you know, life makes circles where you're now, there were others. And where the others are, you'll be very soon. I wonder what your opposition tactic will then be. We have some very clear things. You're kicking out investors who want to come. Mr. Tsipras is typically inviting young people, but he does not say anything about those who are already in place and who are sending them away either by himself or by his own ministers. And examples from the Greek to the Halkidiki mines in Skouria are abundant. You are doing absolutely nothing about the country's new production model. And in order to reach agreement, yesterday you voted in favour of the most false budget in the years of the memorandum. And with the arrogance that it is supposedly the last budget of the memorials and therefore the country in the summer of 2018 will come to a clean and secure exit to the markets, you - if a citizen asks you in your village, since we all go to our villages on holidays - can answer what the new productive model you have shaped after three years of governance?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u134	Everything you didn't do in forty.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u135	If you can tell, then you will be able to release. We regret, however, that you still have your own cloud where you think people don't understand. The hay's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u136	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u137	Please, Mr. Lappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u138	It does not bother me to interrupt, ladies and gentlemen, because it means that your instincts are being disturbed. But if you let the instinct of your political survival prevail, you may be more useful to the Greek people. And, of course, before I go to the bill, I cannot recall the sale of national sovereignty through the mortgage on the entire public property in Tsipras - Siomple, the ninety-nine-year-old assignment of national sovereignty, which no Greek Prime Minister or any government majority had done. But obviously the demagogy and populism of SYRIZA in close cooperation with the extreme right of Kammenos have agreed that the adhesive substance of power is so strong that it does not matter to retreat and everything. And, to finish this too, because in the budget you managed to share allowances and make a redistribution of poverty, the day before yesterday Vangelis Venizelos, addressing Mr Euklidis Tsakalotos said that they are unfamiliar with salts. Unfortunately you are all unrecognised arrogant and for this reason you will be punished by the Greek people! I'm coming to the bill now. Minister, the issue of space technology has been a leading theme of an effort launched by the country since 2001, about, with the launching of the first satellite and in 2008, the Association of Greek Space Technology and Applications Industries has been and has been established. These companies are currently employing two thousand workers. They are forty companies and they have a turnover of 150 million. Greece therefore participated in space developments. The Greek universities, the Greek research centres, participated and managed in the competitive programs to obtain more funds than was national participation. Is what you're doing important? I'm saying, yes. It is, however, one of the hundred steps that have already been taken. You're creating an organization. Are you creating him in a modern and modern way? Well, unfortunately the answer is a sad 'no' because you are ideological. Why not? Because the Minister continues to have superpowers. So, ladies and gentlemen, on space technology issues, the Minister for Digital Policy, who could be a doctor or could not have anything to do with space technology, calls on you to vote in favour of a bill, in which everything is concentrated on the ministerial decisions that the Minister will adopt. We will in principle support the creation of this organisation because we believe it is a positive step. I ask you this extremely simple question: why, Minister, did I ask you to the committee - the board of directors of this organization does not make it up within the next three months and give this board all the responsibilities that you have arrogantly given yourself? Are you more appropriate than making decisions than seven or nine - how many are you going to make? - on the Greek board of directors of high prestige? Unless you are planning to appoint party subordinates. Why do I have to tell you that it is a key concern of the scientific community that you will not declare the positions of the board of directors. Are you going to issue them, or are you going to appoint them directly, Minister? Why, if you proclaim them and a committee comes in to assess Greeks within national territory or Greek foreigners, who serve in universities, research centres or in the free market, then you will indeed prove that depositing this bill is a positive attempt rather than attempting to create another mechanism, where we will appoint friends, party volunteers and, at the same time, give the opportunity for exceptional recruitment. Why exceptionally, and why not in full transparency procedures and why even exceptional secondments? What is it that prevents you? And why couldn't the national Parliament give you an authorisation if you could prove that there are such needs? I shall end, ladies and gentlemen, on the subject of ERT. This story with the ERT, in which the commercial part is subsidized, must be fully documented by the government. The ERT is certainly her favorite child. It is certainly the step in which every government can express its own delusion, but it is the Greek citizens who are holding ERT up with what they pay in the electricity bills and does not require any scientific or commercial capacity for ERT to make surpluses. It comes out of surpluses because there are overcrowding by Greek citizens. There's no revenue from competition from advertising. All mandatory in an ERT that's under 5% too many times. Previous observation. Minister, because this subject of television licences has troubled the national Parliament and the Council of State has given you the answer you should have taken, you have tried to undermine it, you have been sabotaging it - the then government representative - and now you are continuing the attack on the Supreme Court. The question of the ordinary Greek citizen is this: A year and a half ago in this Chamber the government claimed that only four licences could be granted. Minister, today, following the decision of the CoR and the revelations on the possibilities offered by the new technologies, is it or is it not true that the licenses that can be licensed in Greece, on the basis of modern technologies, are at least three and four times more than four times the four, for which you swear to the solvency of the famous Institute of Florence? Of course, we are very concerned - because it has to do with the issues of freedom of press - the issue that took place the other day with Athens 9,84 and the freezing of accounts. Take care of it. These are slippery streets. They lead to a catalyst without a return, and on these issues you will find us all across the street. Minister, your government is already a political past. In the next national election you will also be a government past. With our love! With the love of the Change Movement! Be well!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u139	Thank you very much. That's a great day today. Only love, Minister! We'll put an extra minute, because the Minister will share love in his speech! Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u140	It's one of the loves you say "I miss"! I think that the debate - not to be strange to you - is productive, because, although every rapporteur wanted to move in the context of opposition needs, the criticism of the bill itself was very careful. I have not heard from any of the wings that we should not move to legislate in relation to the licensing of space issues and the establishment of the Greek Space Agency, and I think that is a very positive step. Let me speak for a minute about the amendments and the legislative improvements that are coming. There are some verbal legislative improvements and two amendments, which we deserve to note. The first, which we add in consultation with the Ministry of Defense, concerns the participation of a representative of the Ministry of Defense on the board of the Hellenic Space Organization when discussing issues related to defence. The second is to introduce a limit to the subscriber's ID cards - that is to say, the SIM cards - one can own that per provider, which is set out on 20. There has been no limit so far and you realize that this can be a possibility for another type of activity, not angelic. I'm tabling them in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u141	I have listened very carefully to the criticism of all the parties. Golden Dawn said we should have a space organism, but it doesn't trust us. It is obvious that the Golden Dawn would not have confidence in a government that has left. It's obvious. We are not concerned about the confidence of the Golden Dawn, we are concerned about the confidence of the Greek people and the government in Parliament. The JRC has said that there are, of course, great opportunities in Space, we must use them, but since this is done in the context of the capitalist system, we should avoid it, because if we do so, we will serve capitalist monopolies. Here I think we are seeing the red line that governs all issues, but also a central ideological disagreement, which exists within the left for many decades, as to whether any people's interests can be served through the creation of progressive left-wing governments or whether this can only be done through the invasion, I would say, of government power and the establishment of a Soviet-type government. I would like to point out from the Central Association that it is very positive that it was put forward in the first place positive for the bill and once again that the proposal that was tabled together is accepted if I am not mistaken with the Independent Greeks for the participation of a representative of the Ministry of Defence on the board of directors of the organization. We have also heard criticism from the representatives of the river, Mr Amyras. He has referred very much to issues not related to the bill, but to a matter relating to the responsibility of the Ministry - not the specific bill, in relation to digitalisation - I would like to inform the House that we are progressing rapidly and completing the Ministry of Digital Policy, the electronic handling of documents and electronic signatures - the remote electronic signature - and at the beginning of the year, along with Olga Gerovasili, will be called on to do the work that generalises this application in the public sector. It will be a very radical reform and change, which, based on the IOB study, will save the public EUR 400 million. I personally think that this assessment is underestimated, because you cannot appreciate exactly what we are saving if we can at any time have the picture of where our documents are and who is delayed. It sounds like we need some sloppy management methods. I'll surprise you. It is a TEC, of course, but there are exceptions which enable the flexibility and effectiveness that such an organisation must have, which is at the top of the technology, and of course it must meet the needs that arise. As far as Mr Maniotis is concerned, it is obvious that you do not want to sanctify, Mr Maniotis. Because you come here for a bill and say that, first of all, you should of course come down, but you are spending, you waste and you consume half of your speech, just to make us a criticism, which is extreme, not politically, is just a paradox. That is because you have made Minister of State, Mr Samaras, and here you speak as if you were a spokesman for the extra-parliamentary Left. You have to realize that this is a little oxime in the eyes of the world. That is what the world sees. You take ultra revolutionary left positions and review us from the left!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u142	It's social democratic, don't get confused.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u143	If they are social-democratic, I would recommend to you, instead of imagining you going out first or second party in the next election, that you look at what your socialists have been saying about the course of the SYRIZA all these years. It's a very simple recipe. There is a serious structural crisis in social democracy and there is a great deal of humiliation in Europe about what you have suffered. Some people get it and get it right because they had tightened conservative parties and applied what we two decades have called neoliberal choices, but this is a great debate, which is not our concern. Obviously, also for the production model, there seems to be no other factual factual fact that there is another government majority from that, which has something to say about the Greek people and about the country's international strategy, about its role as a hub of telecommunications, transport and trade, about the strengthening of the networks at all levels, of all types of networks, about productive reconstruction and, of course, about social justice. We come from this step and criticise the 'white areas'. I'm really surprised once again. Not everything is on the altar of impressions, Mr. and honourable Members. He's not, and he should normally be here others should be in the apology post. What, then, are we going to say to our four hundred thousand fellow citizens, who, by the arrangements you have chosen, are not able to watch TV at this time? That we would implement an NRP that was tabled on the day Mr Samaras held his election conference in January 2015, and would you have time to make the transition? And we will also cover the costs that the channels' ownership had to cover from European resources. I don't think that can and should be the answer. The number of licences has been answered over and over again. I would really like to invite you to realize that we are not in August 2016, but in December 2017. There is a National Broadcasting Council, it has made unanimous decisions, the notice has published and do not become advocates of some, who at one time file an appeal so that they do not lodge "substantially" and the other file an appeal in order to lodge "substantially" all, perhaps outside the same, before the competition. And because there is a lot of specula, I repeat: there is an absolute control of economics for 3.5 million of the starting price and the 8 million, which need to be paid up as capital in the participating companies. At the end of the tendering procedure, full verification of the origin of the finances shall be carried out for the price of the price. This cannot be done in advance without knowing that the National Broadcasting Council, which is also conducting the competition, should be checked on the financial size of the participant. If a participant gets a licence of 35 million, it will be checked for 35 million. If she gets a license of 40 million, she'll be checked for 40 million. This cannot be done in advance. Not to surprise you, and I think it is not politically functional, but, in any case, everyone has made their own conclusions and I call on you to tackle it with coolness. Very soon this chapter will also have been closed, and we will see who can walk around and play it right. I'm going to New Democracy now. Mrs Asimakopoulou was absolutely consistent with the strategic political choice of the leadership of the New Democracy and the ultimate matching and sanctification of the prestige of the Samaras. In other words, there is no way between now and September 2019 that we will go to elections to make your self-criticism about the events of this governance. That, of course, concerns you. And you come to the point, say that we are going to Samara's skateboard, who had been free of Wi-Fi everywhere. I don't know who recommended it to him, but whoever recommended it to him to make it public, he exposed it to him. I'm really wondering what the start was to say that thing. The programmes available are very well known, one, 'Wi-Fi for you', a programme of 120 million European Union-competitive, which concerns about six thousand municipalities throughout the Union, and the provision of wireless connections and Wi-Fi in public areas. So I think the mastomy is out of line. I don't think we should get up to this Step and play the make news or the make-up stuff - Einstein didn't get you any good! - and read something on Twitter and come here to say it from the House Step. Well, that's not a level of confrontation, let me say. For the general economic strategy, all I have to say is that the reality now speaks for itself. The figures from "ERGANI" are positive to impressive, because the great picture of the crisis, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, is that Greece has lost a million jobs in the crisis. Of the four and a half million people went to three and a half million jobs. And right now, it has earned three hundred thousand jobs from the peak of the crisis, which was in Samara's supposedly success story, with 27% unemployment and almost half a million unemployed. The great picture, therefore, is the image of a country which also regains reforms in the public sector as a whole and with an increase in employment and a dynamic return to very specific sectors of the economy. It is obvious that we had absolutely no space policy for Greece. And do not mention the absorption rates, which were of the order of EUR 2 million and EUR 3 million. The European Space Agency is obliged to return them to us. So tell me what projects and what national strategy we were able to take and when we did not pay for our contributions. So don't fool around here. Unless you know something and we do not know it, neither do we nor anyone, of course, from the bodies that we called at the committee meeting. It is obvious that any other way is prevented from starting. This is not the case, and I would like to say, of course, that I and the entire parliamentary majority are very proud that we have managed within a very short time to agree with the European Space Agency that the Centre for Intelligent Entrepreneurship for Space Applications should be set up in Greece as well. Such centres exist in eighteen other European Union countries. Companies that enter this centre will have access to all the information, to all the ideas that are hosted, grazed, born, stronger and growing within this network of start-ups. As we are, of course, proud of the fact that we have also managed to bring a serious investment to Greece. The UK is one of the three largest companies manufacturing microprocessors and satellites and announced - we signed the relevant Memorandum the other day at the Ministry of Digital Policy - that it will make a major investment here for the installation of a microprocess and satellite plant. These aren't little things. Look, I'm not one of those who'll go up to this Step and argue that this investment will bring thousands of jobs. It will bring hundreds of jobs, hundreds of them. Be careful, the greatest effect on employment is when these technologies are downloaded and we make them a part of people's daily lives, when we are looking to employ people who will inform, train, explain to the producer what and how these technologies can exploit them. I think, however, that it is very important - and I would like all the wings to be recognised - that these steps are an incentive for people who have been hosted to return to Greece. They're going to open up these kind of jobs. Is that negative? It cannot be characterized by any of Parliament's wards as negative. For the 'white areas', I have answered you. Now, for the spectrum and its exploitation, I think that "the house of the hanged man is not talking about rope". There was a transponder to 'Hellas Sat 2', which was completely unexploited, and now we are going to a situation in which we have more than tripled our capabilities and of course we will be able to use it as we think. ERT hasn't stopped counting. The ERT is in negotiation with the only, unfortunately, company that makes the measurements and what I know requires that its digital penetration be measured. First of all, the ERT is the first channel that went through hybrid TV, which also uses Internet connection and reception of the signal from the antenna and gives what we call "on demand services" to the viewer. It also has very rich digital content, such as sports events, sports events like volleyball, handball, made there communities and audiences, which of course online enjoy this product. I would also tell you that these moves are based on these sports at times too difficult. I think we shouldn't underestimate this. I won't avoid temptation. We cannot swallow the events of lack of full deposit "outside you" and fly implied for normal companies founded in Greece. The question will remain alive and at some point New Democracy will answer it when it attacks us by saying that we are attacking justice. Do we have those who have political responsibilities, those who have been elected to Parliament, and do we exercise governmental responsibilities to testify 'from the outset' to 'from the outset'? Leave what the courts will say and what the government will legislate. Should we have our asset situation clearly posted? This is a starting position and from this one cannot escape nor hide behind an application for cancellation, which is often very quickly accepted, at space speeds - to be up-to-date. Here, therefore, we must discuss politically and do not even vote for hypocrisy. We are either in favour of full transparency or we are not. As far as our assets are concerned, the position of this government and that of this party is that we, who have responsibilities, should be crystal in relation to what we have, what we do not have and what we acquire. There's no other way. Otherwise, the veil of distrust will be generalised on politics and that will be a very bad message from the people. It has been criticised in relation to responsibilities. I think it was said by an opposition voice - I apologise for not being able to remember at the moment who said it - that the law was written on the tracks drawn up by the United Nations Special Committee on the Peaceful Uses of the Space. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the Greek Parliament is taking a very important step at the moment: it opens a door to the future, an employment possibility for young people, which can make both citizens' lives and their dealing with the state more effective and the work of producers much more effective and overall life better and show the world that from Greece there is nothing missing, neither the scientific potential nor the entrepreneurial spirit nor the political maturity and determination. We can and we'll make it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u144	Thank you very much to the Minister. We will proceed with the registered speakers, who are all seventeen. Two speakers will speak, then Mr Loverdos will speak and we will continue with the list of speakers. Mr. Constantine has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to make a sad remark here on the bill we are debating today: most of the rapporteurs were not mentioned in the bill. In 20% of their speech they referred to the bill and 80% made political specs, and the budget was discussed and voted yesterday. Ladies and gentlemen, with the vote on this bill, our country is now becoming a major participant in the world Charter on Space Industry, an industry that in the first years of its development has reached $200 billion in an annual turnover. Our country's human resources can leave us no more than indifferent. When the international community praises the ability of Greek scientists in aerospace matters, it would be inconceivable for us not to go ahead with the establishment of the Space Agency, laying the foundations for the further development of micro-dollars manufacturing organisations, which we have done. Already dozens of businesses in our country are active in space industry. What was missing and succeeded with the bill is a national strategy so that this network of research efforts and businesses stay in Greece and offer what it can in the economy and society. Minister, the signing of an agreement with the European Space Agency, which concerns the establishment of a business thermostat in Greece, which will be linked to the European Space Agency, gives a new perspective to your plan. In other words, young people, what you mentioned earlier, will be able to integrate their companies into this structure - it is a very important structure, which exists in eighteen countries in the European Union, as you have said - and at the same time they will have access to the information network that all newly-born businesses have in the process of cooperation with ESA. I therefore propose to you, Minister, the creation of two administrations: one administration in southern Greece, on the subject of the diffusion of aerospace applications to the general public and defence and one administration in northern Greece, on the issue of the creation and development of international connections. This will give the prospect of creating multiplier benefits for the regions of the country, as what we are doing is fully in line with the European Union's policy of decentralisation and intra-regional convergence of the regions of the European Union. As a seat of the administration in southern Greece as Messinio I propose and would like you to consider the Municipality of Kalamata or Messini for the following reasons: due to the unique strategic location of the region at a pan-European level in the south-eastern Mediterranean, the inducement of the Peloponnese Region to the Government to provide building infrastructure and its installation in the southern Peloponnese...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u146	Does Samaras agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u147	I'm glad you can hear me. He's going to say they're interested in what I'm saying. Thank you. ...the activity in the Peloponnese of HE programs specialising in aerospace at the University of Peloponnese and at the University of Patras. I'm talking about it for you, Mr. Maniatis, who mentioned the educational establishments beforehand. But you're talking to Mr. Screka now. It's probably more interesting. I also propose to the Messinia because of the available space for development offered in the wider region of Kalamata. Kalamata is close to just two hours from metropolitan Athens, which makes it essentially a suburb of Athens, with excellent growth potential that can successfully absorb enough activity that is taking place in the center.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u148	Has it been two hours?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u149	It's two hours on the road we made, Mr. Loverdo. Come on. He was inaugurated by Mr. Tsipras. So there is the possibility of fast access and direct interconnection of the region with the international community, through the international airport of Kalamata, the motorway we built, Mr Loverdo, and our port, which enters the business plan when you left it. There is the possibility of the two-way operation of the Kalamata airport, namely the 120 Air Force Training Wing, which we are also using now - I hope you will listen to - at regional level, with a political and military character. This makes this an ideal point for the development of the country's defence-related space applications. For these reasons, my dear Minister, I would draw attention to the multiplier benefits that will arise from the specific structure of the organization. After all, similar structures are found in the majority of the space organizations in other countries, with successful results. I now come to Anti-Population: Anti-Population can take as a response the disappointment of the scientific bodies that had come here, for the indifference shown in 2013, Mrs Asmakopoulou, when the micro-party houses of the New Democracy put in the drawer the file called "National Space Organisation". I would therefore like to point out your contradiction - Mr Dendias is missing at the moment - as Mr Katsis said in his speech, referring to Mr Dendia. The reason why you've had the envelope locked in your drawers all these years, Mrs. Asmakopoulou, I could say that it may be due to any obstacles that your President has put to you by the alien of Hymittos, who has seen you!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u150	What's that now? Are we serious?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u151	Please, Mr. Constantinea. Your time's up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u152	I do not want to believe that there have been suspicious funding for studies and contractors. You've been inviting actors from Kalamata. Get Mr. Papadopoulos to tell you what our government is doing and what your government was asking for from 2012 to 2015. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u153	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u154	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u155	You have the floor, Mrs. Asmakopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, Mr President. It is customary for the speaker to be addressed to the Bureau, but since my colleague has chosen to speak to me five times on a specific point, I would like to say this to him, also to you, Mr President, and to the Minister: I welcome the proposal by my colleague, who is precisely the proposal by the Government of Samaras.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u157	Mr. Papadopoulos said so. He made three dates. And they invoked what I told you! Ask Mr. Papadopoulos!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u158	Mr. Constantine, you have already said that. Your position has been recorded. Let's hear the answer. Keep going, Mrs. Asmakopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u159	Minister, you see that I am not just the one who is consistent in choosing my party's leadership to support the very important work of the Samara government. Looks like you also have executives in the Coupling, who support the Samara government's choices.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u160	Only you didn't!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u161	That is what I wanted to say, because, in the face of holidays, I will also pass on the insults and the smallities and the level of the parliamentary dialogue of my colleague, and I will say, because of Christmas, let us unite around the government policy of Samaras! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u162	Vote the bill then!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u163	Please, Mr. Constantine! The next speaker is Mr Varvitsiotis, who I do not see in the Chamber. Here comes Mr. Gregos from Golden Dawn, who I also don't see in the Chamber. Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras, Independent MEP, has the floor for seven minutes. Mr. Loverdos will be followed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u164	Mr President, the bill, as it was tabled, was launching Greece in space! He made it a part of the space industry! On the way, however, when he had come out of the atmosphere, he began returning with a storm of diving asteroids. Who was that? The amendments, which, with their quantity and quality, are effectively canceling the debate in the bill for the reason that we are all forced, even though they have not yet been developed by the ministers, to discuss this issue. So you will allow me, even though the ministers have not yet developed their positions - I assume that the ministerial amendments will be accepted - to say my own positions. Yesterday the budget was discussed in the House. Therefore, economic interest issues have been discussed and today we see amendments which come and give a series of extensions to outstanding issues, which could have been resolved before a long time ago. Why am I saying that? Let me take two or three examples, Minister. Although it is not your responsibility, I am compelled to refer to it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u165	Collective responsibility under the Constitution, Mr. Carras.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u166	As far as NSAs are concerned, therefore, it says that we should give the Greek Defence Systems time - I will not steal him, Mr Papadopoulos, the time and I do not understand your concern about this - a six-month extension for the granting of proof of tax and insurance information. In other words, there is still an uncertainty about the fate of this company, which, at least in my view, is useful. What is this uncertainty? I'll report the evidence I have. It had already been announced in April 2017 that the sale of Elefsina's land was successfully completed, which meant two things. Firstly, the financial support of the company, the financial support and, secondly, the responsibility of the State to capitalise the company’s debts to the State, so as not to put it under special liquidation. And it comes today and - by reading the provisions - it tells us: 'We will give six months of extension if the sale is completed'. Question: Should it have been achieved or have problems which are not revealed by the amendment? I am going further, because time is really minimal. With regard to the amendment which extends the single authorisation of PPC's units, there I must burn and say that PPC has an environmental dimension. In PPC's units there is a number of issues - there are too many - which need to be addressed. So we cannot talk about a single permit for PPC's units, because PPC's units are not just power plants, they are mines, they are too many things. The problems are well known. So this issue has not been resolved. And if you want my opinion, it leads to the same problem being perpetuated. And if you want me to go further, PPC is already discredited by bad management, by bad legislative initiatives that have been too burdened with it. One step further depreciation is the lack of individual permits for each installation separately. Why am I saying that? If the government decides to privatise PPC's units, the first question any investor will ask what is it? Will it consider to what extent the environmental conditions have been met? We don't even know that. What the amendment tells us today is that we do not need to ensure that environmental conditions are respected. That's my question. Next question, which is now raised in relation to the amendments: While we voted yesterday on the budget, I see today an extension of three months for the issue of a CFD for the payment of disability and risk allowances to the staff of the Armed Forces and the Security Corps and the determination of the compensation of educational staff. How much is that money? How much is it that the government cannot carry out this policy and fulfil its obligations towards a category of armed and security personnel concerned with disability benefits, that is to say those of the executives who have responsibility and care for their relatives? For God's sake! I think that this should have been solved a long time ago and not to be talking about further extensions. It's a low-cost thing. However, it seems that the government has not taken note of it, they have escaped from it. I don't want to blame for feasibility, I don't have that intention. Did she miss her? Didn't he see it? Let him regulate it today and not by extensions of non-payment of benefits. What has bothered me very much, if you will, is the last amendment, which came last night or this morning - I am not sure - to extend the operation of the quarries for a year. It's a repeated extension. It has started from the time of Mr Maniotis, who then gave a temporary solution to the question of continuing the operation of existing businesses. Today we have reached seven years and put in the eighth, with one-year or two-year extensions. If policy is to inject painkillers into businesses, to give this extension. If politics is to strengthen a sector and, in particular, the mineral wealth sector, which, if you want me, is the only healthy one. If we look at its financial data, it is 90% exportable - particularly the industrial minerals and marbles sector - it contributes to foreign exchange, it does not need bank borrowing and it has the ability, if necessary, to borrow from foreign banks because all transactions are made in export and export tariffs. And we're coming now and we're putting him under hostage again. A quarantine, so-called bill, which would solve the problems had been negotiated months ago. I have studied it, ladies and gentlemen. I have to tell you he's been very concerned about me. I have also seen positive and negative points. But what I would like to comment on today is that we will also discuss next House extensions of quartz units? We'll tell them "you're good and we want you, take a year of extension, a present" but how will they invest? How will they identify investment programmes, staff employment programmes? The measures at least in sectors of the economy, which are healthy, must be stopped and a single draft law must be drawn up to guarantee the exploitation of the prerequisites - I am not the ones to say that permits must be granted, and where environmental violations or infringements of another form of labour legislation are involved - to continue the efforts of the mineral industry. Finally, because in fact, Mr President, time is very little to discuss such a draft law and, in particular, on the part of the storm of those who have fallen into our heads today, the twenty-one amendments, I will try to assess them. All these extensions, which are counted on twenty-one amendments, are twenty-four - six months, three months, annual extensions, are negative because the uncertainty they give reflects the economy. In the crisis we are in, and given that there is no way out, or if there is a small light there is little, and it cannot create conditions for real, stable and long-term development, what are they telling us? We are told that we are giving extensions, that we are giving'spirins'. The country's making an effort. And I don't mean the government, I mean that today everyone is trying because of unemployment, families are trying, small units trying, and everyone is trying. We deprive them today of the quarters and quarters. And soon we will have not only the octamites, those wretched ones that we never find a solution to ensure their jobs, but also the bimenis, I fear later on. And there will now be a hostage, which will have lasting and uncertainty. That is what I wanted to say, ladies and gentlemen. I don't have time for more. I wish everyone a happy holiday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u167	Thank you very much, Mr. Carras.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u168	Mr President, can I have the floor for a second?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u169	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u170	Just because there was a debate earlier on the issue of the Peloponnese Region - and I would like the Minister to hear me, please - you have also received the document from the Peloponnese Region on its proposal to be the Peloponnese headquarters of the Space Agency. We would like your answer. We fully support this proposal, much more that is in close cooperation with the Peloponnese University. There is therefore documentation, regional and university, along with local forces, to support such an important initiative. We would like to hear your positive response, Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u171	Thank you very much, Mr. Maniotis. The Minister will study it and answer it later. Please, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u172	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, no matter how strange it seems to me that as a plenary we are working here, I would like to make my speech, be in time and tell my fellow Members that it is not rare that the speech of a parliamentary representative does not define it as a hierarchy of the issues arising from a legislative initiative or from some facts, but also the ones that he is living in, coming to Parliament or within Parliament. Today, then, this morning, because workers with special payrolls received their payroll, not the money, but the relevant documents showing exactly what their payroll will be for the month of January - one of the policemen, first working here with us - I learned about 20 euros, 61 euros, 100 euros. I also learned from a university professor in Ioannina, Mr Manda, that in their own pay bills they have the abolition of their tax-free library allowance and the reduction of 4% to 10% in their net earnings, retroactively from 1-1-2017 plus the abolition of children's allowances for those who have an income of more than 20,000 euros, an increase in contributions to the EFKA. So a university professor, not from over sixty but from the age of forty, forty-five years old or even a little older, has a total reduction in net earnings of 15% to 22%. Thirdly, I will tell you two examples and speak as I experienced them this morning. Here, on the road, a gentleman who kept in his hand a pot of coffee, told me that his mother, with EUR 140, received today the January note through which he was informed that he would take 40 euros. Another retired person with 125 euros EASS got a note that he'll get 35 euros. And on Monday she told me that she also went to get this 400 euro allowance you gave, but, because she has provided her children with parental benefits, she is considered to be hosting them and deprived of that allowance you gave. It is an experience of today that, having heard the Prime Minister for about sixty minutes yesterday presenting another picture of the real one - because it is our first meeting after yesterday's budget - it makes me tell you that this Prime Minister was climbed with lies, ruled with failures and will depart in the middle of contempt. Because everyone who spoke to me did not speak to me, as you can see, in a positive way. He mentioned Mr. Maniotis and I would like to take advantage of the opportunity you are here and ask you until the meeting ends, to give the government's position on what will happen to the hundreds of twenty-five workers at the radio station "Athens 9.84". I mentioned it twice, addressing Mr. Tzanakopoulos yesterday and the day before, what will happen between the accounts of "Athens 9.84" which the tax pledged is also the staff payroll. We arrive at Christmas, and you must today say whether you intend to do something as government. I hear that a delegation of them has visited the Minister of Finance, but you have to say. On Monday, when I raised the matter, Mr Janakopoulos answered me with questions of the Rules of Procedure of the House. The Rules of Procedure are spacious. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday you saw that we had both time and opportunities to develop a parliamentary dialogue, which has been developed in some cases. It was therefore inconsistent with my question and told me that it was 'double' to workers. Good! How's she next door? Are you friends of the people, in a broad sense, because you declare it? Here! We're Christmas. They're a hundred and twenty people. One answer will take - they must take - from the government. Yesterday, Mr. Janakopoulos had a 10-minute speech. She spoke seventeen, eighteen minutes and a reference to this matter she did not. You do it. I do not know, of course, who is fully competent - perhaps there is a matter with your responsibilities - but you have to tell us what is going to happen in this regard. We have expressed ourselves on the draft law with the positions of Mr Maniotis and today and also on the committee. Here, Minister, we need some clarifications, not because you are going to make some changes. You won't. If you were going to do this, you would have heard the opposition and had seen your arguments otherwise. We here as a parliament, with suspected MPs about what is happening to the Greek administration - and now you are three years in government, you know - we all know, all three hundred, that there is no escalating response to a problem that has arisen with the establishment of a state. Previously, this was termed the 'General Secretariat for Consumers' in order to protect consumers' problems. Why, did he protect them? Now, with the measures that we have heard today by the government for the non-marketing of products or for the withdrawal of products which are famous for, or are people saying that they have been poisoned, seen, felt, lived with the General Secretariat of Consumers? The example is random. It results from news. We felt the Minister, we felt the government, another minister, that of rural development, we felt the journalists. The administration, why doesn't it bother us that we don't feel it? The majority colleague, who was recommended, because I heard him, says that we need to get into the global industry in space and get in because we are setting up a body. Why are we coming in? Hasn't a space already been created? It's created. The problem of the House of Suspected Members - who have to be suspicious - is to say that it approves this initiative by the Minister, because it has proved to it - and the majority rapporteur helps the House to understand that the government has understood and that is why it is making a proper regulation - that we will in fact, through these services that are structured, enter the particular market more penetrating - because we are - but we will also help to resolve a number of problems. This must be proved. It's not a proclamation. Goodwill you may have. Why would I question this? Mr Maniotis and Mr Amyras said that we would be positive, but those provisions which do not allow this House to understand what the government understood. You're making an agency. During the experience, it is most likely that he will tell you that he wants dozens of conditions to work and, in the meantime, the responsibilities he will assume to exercise them miserably and to afflict his social space and the market, if you like. This is the experience of the Greeks and Greeks, all of us. You three years know how difficult it is to oversee this public and how many obstacles those with ministerial duties have. So it does not result from the regulations of the law that you are now suggesting that you are aware of the issues raised by the administration and that you have come here in a mature way to overcome them. Speech! Thank you, but words are not enough! The invasive provisions are needed. Is it argument that we don't have an organization and what are we going to do without an organisation? It's not an argument anymore. We need this proper body to respond to the problems. Here, our position is underlined: No more state, if that makes no sense and no more Pope in the state. Here we have twenty-four ministerial decisions. The Department of Scientific Studies...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u173	Put your destiny on!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u174	No more Poppa, that's our argument.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u175	Put your destiny on!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u176	No more coal.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u177	Does the agency make it personal?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u178	Article 4(2) and (3). You know, ladies and gentlemen, lawyers know that - the correctness of the constitutional provision governing authorisations to the regulatory authority is questioned. The Constitution allows us to say on this issue, which is detailed and specific, that we will not solve it, that we give the guidelines and that will be resolved by the administration. And the administration will solve it either by decree or by ministerial decision. The Council of State has been telling you for decades now? Is this special and detailed? Has the law given directions? And it cancels when the law is not enough, it's not well built. It is questioned by science, but also by judges themselves: Nice, so much effort, to get things back and again lost time and assumptions in the Council of State, delays in the Administrative Court. Is this article of the Constitution that gives the authorisations correct? It's a situation that needs to be studied. It's true. But there are times when you're saying, here's the point. Although it's too much, it makes sense. A Minister comes in and assumes regulatory powers himself twenty-four times. Why would you approve of that? You mustn't approve of this. It is very much the freedom it acquires. I do not want to criticise this government alone. Generally speaking, the regulatory administration operates expansively many times, as if there were no legislature. That is why I would say that we need this provision, which is also mentioned by the Directorate for Scientific Studies, to see it. We may have problems if there are people who have a legitimate interest and will want to offend it. There is also a political issue here, but there is a legal issue here. We underline them and invite you to see them. I close with only one phrase on a subject of today's political and interesting news. For a designation Mr. Juncker made for the extreme right in Europe. I remember, not only now, having a lot of reactions to the Austrian political issues, the Austrian political system, but also two decades ago, we had a great deal of thought and a very strict attitude from the Austrians and Europeans towards the Austrians. We now have a new government in Austria, three ministries whose extreme right has been taken over. In the criticism of President Juncker he said: Why does Tsipras not have Kammenos in Greece? No, Papachristopoulos. Is that right? It makes a difference. So we know that phenomenon. Look, it's a matter of how we see ourselves as Greek and Greek here. It is also a matter that needs to be close to the first, how others see us. The others see us more like what we are and less plays to make sense to our own authorities and the declarations and what we are saying. Your opposition tells you it was a strategic mistake and it's your fault to identify yourself with the extreme right, which holds the baton. You're an orchestra. You're not the conductor. When you're told outsiders, it's a confirmation of our critical arguments. So you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, who want to see the Central Left and the Centre and the Left with an interest, know that you have already excluded yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u179	Thank you very much Mr. Loverdo. Mr. Loverdes will allow me to make a comment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u180	Mr President, can I take the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u181	You know I didn't talk to you either.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u182	He said "Bluttered".
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u183	I just think it's a pointless comment. As President-in-Office, as a Greek citizen, but also as a member of the Independent Greeks and Vice-President of Parliament I will disagree with Mr Juncker. If I was given the opportunity, today I would make him a letter to give me his definition, as he says, 'extreme right coalition', that is, on the extreme right or - what do they call coalition? - Couple, the coup d'état? I'd like the definition. To say, Mr Loverdo, 'I don't mean Mr. Papachristopoulos' and to mean me, or possibly someone else, that's also not right. And I don't know if Mr. Papachristopoulos feels comfortable that he doesn't belong to the extreme right, while others may belong. I would also like a comment from Mr Papachristopoulos, but up to this point, because he mentioned you personally and I would like you to reply, Mr Papachristopoulos. From there on, I will not allow any Mr. Yunger to criticize the Greek Government now. Because we remember in 2015 that he wanted Mr. Schultz. And we remember the interventions made in the Hellenic Republic two times. We cannot give Mr Junger a step forward today to call Greek MPs, parties, Greek voters right-wing, without giving us the right-wing definition. Because if he thinks that we have something to do with the Austrians or the Visegrad countries, Mr. Yunger has something to do with it. And I think this morning he didn't drink coffee. We're continuing with Mr. Varvitsiotis. After Mr. Varvitsiotis, he will be Mr. Gregos. But because we have been late, Mr. Dannelis has asked for the floor. I think it'll be Mr. Gregos and then Mr. Dannellis. And I would ask you next time not to be late, because the show is a little broken and we will have complaints from colleagues. Thank you. Here, Mr Varvitsiotis, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u184	Ladies and gentlemen, it is an example of a misrepresentation of today's procedure in this House, of a disgraceful legacy, of a disgraceful coexistence and of a disgraceful government. Because when we have 20 amendments, which could be the subject of a new draft law, they should come at the last minute, they should be debated and, indeed, it is 14.00 hours an hour and not even one Minister should appear to support his ministerial amendment, you can understand that we are not legislating on the leg but, in the end, we are enacting secretly. You have abolished, Minister, your Government has abolished the transparency that must prevail in the production of legislative work. And I wonder when Mr Mouszalas will come here, when he will find time to support an amendment that cancels his entire project to create a new Ministry of Immigration. Last November the Ministry of Immigration was built and received an exception for the entire year 2017 from the Public Accountancy, from all Greek State procedures for supplies, for expenses, for staff. And a whole year he didn't manage to organize a ministry. And he is bringing back an amendment calling for an extension for another year of his absolute exclusion from all the procedures of the Greek state, from all of them, whether it concerns staff movements, recruitment, payments, supplies of material, or the distribution of public money. And if Mr. Muzalas had done such a good job, I'd say that make that exception given, because he's done such a great job. Yesterday we witnessed 20 times in incidents between immigrants in the refugee camp, because now hot spot doesn't remind Lesvos. This situation, for which we have been warning many times, has been signed and this is the SYRIZA - ANEL and Yiannis Mousalas government. For this situation of uncontrolled lawlessness, the situation of the miserable living conditions, the situation of the protection of human rights, which are not protected in Moria and in any other hot spot in the Aegean Sea, is the sole responsibility of the Government. No one else. Neither mayors nor district rulers nor Europe. Immigrants are responsible themselves for victims of the violence between immigrants. And I wonder why, while he has been warned so strongly and so much - not only by the Opposition but also by the world press - he has done nothing. Today you come and tip the Aegean islands instead of solving the problems. With a rough process you are exempting the islands hosting refugees for six months from the increase in VAT, as if in six months, you will resolve the issue and restore normality. And you also give the other islands of the Aegean tip and graciousness, instead of financing a brave island policy it needs. Friends and friends, I want to ask some questions. And I expect, when the leadership of the Ministry of Migration Policy, his Minister and his deputy, finally to appear in the House, to tell us what will happen to those who caused the incidents yesterday. Will they be charged? Are we going to continue to examine their asylum applications? Will they also be among those to whom we will give protection, while they cannot protect human life in the hot spot, or will we deport them immediately? Harder message than direct deportation of those causing episodes does not exist. I don't understand why you're still tempting the government about what you're going to do with broken immigrants. You've got closed centers. Activate them. Are you still haunted by what you were saying about 'Ammondales'? Tomorrow, Mr. Muzalas will be going to Turkey. What's that supposed to mean? That within a year he was able to send only seven hundred thirty back, why are you reacting to your ideas? Your ideas are reacting...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u185	You who had them locked up like animals tell us about human rights? Aren't you ashamed?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u186	Now they're having fun!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u187	Please, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u188	New Democracy teaches us!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u189	We'll send them to Larissa! And Corfu!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u190	Please, colleagues! No one wins anything from it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u191	...that you do not want to make any progress and you are constantly at the forefront of denouncing the agreement on the Europe-Turkey Joint Declaration. Tell me, what is the successful policy exercise? Mr. Erdogan came here. What did you do? Basically, you retreat, with the Gavroglou statements, to all the Turkish claims. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr President, if my colleague wants to go to Stepma to tell him the opposite, she can tell us about the ideas of SYRIZA, which the islands are today oppressing. Let us be told by colleagues about the SYRIZA ideas that expose the country, let us be told of the SYRIZA ideas that are currently putting human lives at risk. Because that's reality!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u192	We'll send them all to Corfu!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u193	You're not ashamed!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u194	Erdogan's here. What about the refugee? Did he agree to accept more or don't you send? And Mr Muzalas tomorrow - I challenge him and I invite him - to speak in the Turkish media, will he say to the Turkish media, so that they can hear it loudly from the Greek Minister for Migration, that the three million refugees who live in Turkey are not welcome to our country?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u195	Whatever you want to say now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u196	He's gonna say that? Because that is a policy of prevention. Friends and friends, ladies and gentlemen, I think that what we lived on last night will not be the last episode of a very bad policy. And if you had the courage - because I regularly go to the islands and go to all the hot spots - go to see them, you would understand that the policy, with which you have enclosed thousands of people in miserable living conditions and the policy with which you are delaying asylum procedures, will actually lead to mourning much more victims. And winter has come and yet no move of preparation, proper hospitality, humanity, within a European country has taken place.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u197	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u198	In Larissa and Corfu we'll send them all!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u199	In Corfu they're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u200	Mr. Gregos has the floor since the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u201	Thank you, Mr President. It is another bill with too many amendments - irrelevant natural amendments - which could even be seen as a multi-billion bill. I don't have much time, of course. I shall refer only to four or five of them. I shall begin with the first and most important one, 1382, which of course we are voting against. This is the epitome of the political fraud of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. In a bill establishing a Space Agency, they introduce an irrelevant provision to facilitate the installation of illegal immigrants, who, with the refugee cloak, enjoy feeding, housing and everything else. Here, therefore, it is permitted, by circumvention of the existing legislation, to conclude public contracts to meet the needs of refugees and illegal immigrants, housing, feeding, medical care, allowances, etc. Continue to promote incoming waves of illegal immigrants within the Greek territory, so illegal immigrants are spread within the social body. You are overlooking the severe reactions of the inhabitants of Lesvos, who, as they say, are drowned by the waves of the aliens, while the island is literally approaching to sinking. Also, your exaggerated zeal continues to incorporate into the Greek "refugee" society, once the war in Syria has ended. You don't mind when in Moria there's a war. Yesterday there were serious incidents between Arabs and Afghans. In particular, serious episodes broke out late at night at the hot spot of polypathic Moria. But that's what happens everywhere, not just there. It followed the intervention of the MATs and the great power of the Fire Service, as the so-called "refugees" set fires and burned what they found in front of them, thus burning offices and expanding the fire to the tents. However, the Afghan illegal immigrants prevented the entry of fire-fighting vehicles into the area, even throwing rocks. During the racist clashes some ten people were injured, who were taken to the hospital in Mytilene, between the two pregnant women and a child. The Golden Dawn, therefore, says 'no' to illegal immigration, which is promoted against the country through the refugee cloak and, above all, is opposed to racist legislation - monstrous crimes, according to which goods and privileges are provided to illegal invaders, i.e. - as I said above - food, housing and medical care. Mousal, of course, to make a comment is obviously useless, incapable and dangerous. As far as Amendment No 1385 is concerned, we are voting 'no'. This is the definition of hunger and political affliction. We declare 'no' for reasons of honour and dignity, because the support and the only specific aid for consumers who cannot respond to their dues is about EUR 66. This is the result of dividing the amount of electricity available with the fifty - thousand families that have been interrupted by them. This incomplete amount, which emerges, was called "support" by SYRIZA's rapporteur this morning, artificially bringing up tons in a failed attempt to gain impression. This is the political enthusiasm that characterises SYRIZA - ANEL government, which continues to deceive the Greek people: they fly communication fireworks, and in fact they evacuate Greek society and repulse Greek families and Greek households. We are also voting against Amendment 1395. Here it moves back to 1-1-2019 from 1-1-2018 in force until today, the start date of the National School of Public Health with full administrative and financial autonomy. By that date, the costs of the remuneration of staff, as well as of any nature, shall continue to be borne by the Ministry of Health's budget and shall be cleared by its competent services. The temporary appointment of members of the Board of Directors of the National Central Authority for Health Supplies is also extended until 31/12-2018. Furthermore, the obligation to waive staff in positions of qualified ERC doctors wishing to apply to other positions of qualified doctors of the ERC, declared until that date, is extended to 30-6-2018 from 31-12-2017 in force. Article 90(7) of Law No.4368/2016 excludes military hospitals, special hospitals, other legal persons governed by public law, other public health services structures and private pharmacies. It is also extended, again, to 31-12-2018 – from 31-12-2017 current – the transitional period for changing the account of the National Direct Help Center. Here, too, we should congratulate those who serve in the EKRD. They really are doing a huge job, and I must say it from the Step of the House. The second article redefined the posting procedure for a period of three years and the renewal criteria for one or more times of the inspectors and assistant inspectors of the Health and Welfare Inspectors' College. We will not vote on these provisions and pursuits of Pavlaki and Xanthos, who have fragmented the health sector and have delivered the benefits of medical care to all kinds of foreign investors, care for the most important health institution and strive only for the fulfilment of their anti-national obsessions. Of course, once again we condemn the two ministers who do not respond to the Golden Dawn parliamentary control. We are voting in favour of Amendment No 1396: 'Full Court Staff Regulations'. The staff of the Fire Corps shall be redefined as ‘personnel special duties’, allowing them to remain in the active service as two more years after it has reached the age limit of fifty five. The pyrometers and firefighters of the Fire Corps, which are occupied by the age limit mentioned above, shall also be allowed to remain in the active service for one year until the sixtieth year of their age. They shall, when retiring or dismissing, whenever decided, in accordance with the provisions of the relevant legislation concerned, fulfil the service needs. Many congratulations to also give the staff of the Fire Service and wish many years ago for the holiday they were a few days ago. We shall vote against Amendment 1397. We are saying'representations' in the amendment with a general number of 1409. Here are adjusted from 1-1-2018 the only charges for calculating the compensation for services of general interest established in 2012. Indeed, PPC’s clearing accounts have come in the last four months. The reason for this is, of course, an increased charge on social benefit services. Those who burned more electricity to warm up in winter, pay and increase the regulated charges. Conditions of irrational burden and distortion have been created. As much as it is legitimate and lighten consumers, it is obviously another communication firework, since the sale of PPC is imminent, so the creation of a different regime. With the Prime Minister's lies yesterday, especially with regard to unemployment, but also with today's bill, it seems that you are incapable of ruling and legislating. Finally, the nationalist wind happily drowns both in Europe and Austria and soon in our homeland.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u202	Thank you very much. The European Parliamentary Representative for the River, Mr Dannelis, has the floor. Mrs. Jack, Mrs. Antonio and Mr. Panayotaros will be followed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u203	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a recent 'MRB' survey on semester trends records the pessimism of citizens for the future, as well as the tendency to leave young people. Different feelings of fear and insecurity dominate citizens' appreciations. The vast majority, by 87.2%, believes that things will go to the country long enough or too bad. The three main problems are unemployment, 65.3%, tax burdens, 47.3%, and health and care systems 35.2%. Six out of ten citizens, 61.2%, are not persuaded by government commitments and see 38.1% quite likely new economic measures to be taken. Citizens are not convinced either by the end of the memorial record, or by the old or newer proclamations of'success stores', as are, of course, not by the majestics and the old cutting of promises to any of the party conferences. If something has been consistently demonstrated by the eight-year crisis, this is the permanent opposition to the assessments of parties and citizens and the widening of the lack of confidence between citizens and the political system. It is no accident - according to the same survey - that even more young people choose the way they leave. Young people, who are in the most productive ages, do not see perspective in the country and if they were given the opportunity to leave Greece, they would go at 34.3%. Of course, Ministers, the high-demand and specialisation positions which will be created as the result of today's legislation are, anyway, a positive signal. It opens up some prospects - a few but quality - for some young people who will be lucky. But it makes sense to have this fear, this uncertainty, this insecurity of young people and, of course, this tendency to leave, because how to fit your dreams, your life's dreams, into tips of 300 euros. Young people want stable jobs, they want decent wages. We have been shouting for years - and I think there is no one who does not share this anxiety and that perception - that the country's biggest problem is youth unemployment and youth poverty. We are in the worst position of the European Union. One out of four young people is on the verge of absolute poverty and depends entirely on parents or family environments. I have from this Step very recently said that producing national wealth and solid jobs would unnecessarily make any fireworks of charity unnecessarily. Benefit policy is a management of poverty. In the present phase of the Greek economy it may seem necessary, but it does not create any prospect. I think we all realise that the desired redistribution of wealth cannot be done with such methodologies, because only serious planning can build a serious state of claim for all citizens. It is well known that the more advanced and disciplined is an economy, the more serious and effective social state can offer and support. If we want here to talk about the prerequisites for this, we should prioritise the sustainable development that has just been dubbed. Let's not lose that momentum that seems to be opening up in front of us. We have said this before, and unfortunately we are talking about it again. With the "Rubics" it is perfectly true that "give the villager courage"! So, as genuine, they think, "Robin of the people", they now began the raids on supermarkets. Anyone who thinks that the miserable working conditions on the labour market - and especially in this area - are improving by such acts is obviously wrong. There's the Labour Inspectorate who has to do her job. And, of course, the self-proclaimed punishments do not have a place in a favoured democracy, as do the illiteracy images of the HEIs, which are constantly growing. Just a few days ago there was an invasion of the University of Macedonia by a group of about ten to fifteen hoods. How many of them belong to the intra-university community and how many not, no one can know. They broke with lotions and crabs what they found in front of them while attacking students and teachers who were at that time in the foundation. From their fury the Christmas tree didn't even get away with it. Here in Athens, in the EKP, on Saturday night cranials invaded the Theatrical Studies Department's event. The perpetrators hit students, so four of them went to the hospital. What else has to happen to finally move away from the concepts that were necessary in 1970 and of course served some purposes, which had to be supported, but today they are ideologically badges that bring the opposite result? University asylum works as a cover for impunity in lawlessness and crime. If we do not see this quickly, I think we will let these aberrations multiply, which of course do not make anyone happy and provide no service to the protection of speech. That was the point of asylum when it was necessary. It is incomprehensible now, with what is happening and escalating so negatively in universities, not to go directly into changing the law on university asylum, identifying exactly what should be served. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not comment on the bill. I am also voting in favour of it in principle. I will make a few comments on some of the amendments. These nineteen amendments as a whole concern extensions which in other cases are considered necessary and in other cases simply demonstrate the fragmentation and short-livedness of the legislation, as we promote and support it. Of course, some show the constant slow-moving processes of the state machine, the shortcomings, and endemic bureaucracy. I shall refer to the amendment on switching the time for the start of the online ticket to the stadiums and the fan card. We are once again transposing such a measure, a measure which would ease sport and, above all, football from hooliganism. However, these are priority measures, no matter how difficult it is to support them. And, of course, the competent authorities should have taken care of themselves in time to be ready in the time set. For the amendment by the Ministry of Migration Policy, where we are extending for another year the possibility of derogating, firstly, public procurement from all stakeholders, ministries, NCI, OTA, etc., to meet the needs of refugees and migrants and, secondly, the secondly, the secondly, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the transfer of personnel to employment contracts by citizens of Member States of the European Union, as well as those working in international organisations, but also many other extensions. Immigration didn't hit us as a seasonal disease. We know that. We've inspired it now. He's here to stay. It is not possible for the structures that we have built, the organization that we have planned, to be characterized by the day-to-day. Let us not forget that Turkey, Lebanon and Jordan, despite the enormous problems they face, manage to host millions of refugees. We managed to drown in a spoonful of water, failing to use the resources available to us. I am referring to European funds. Adequate management by extensions is not meant. I move on to the amendment on the introduction of the special landfill fee. The fourth postponement of the imposition of a landfill charge is incomprehensible and undermines the application of the recently adopted waste management policy. What upgrade of recycling, by sorting at the source, are we talking? What passage to the 'paying as far as I fly' methodology that we should have adopted for years, we are talking about? We are exposed for many times to our European obligations at the same time and let us strictly provide the framework directive of the European Union 2008/98 the management pyramid, prevention, reuse, recycling, other recovery and finally the safe disposal of residues that we could not manage differently in the landfill areas. The anti-incentive of the fee is decisive to minimize the waste that is led to HYYY, where there are HYYY, which are few in the country. Why are we talking about HYTAS and HYTAS? We are building again, which should have been removed from this methodology for at least a decade. His postponing for the fourth time therefore represents a great defeat in our relationship with the environment and quality of life. This may be the demand of the country's large majority of OTAs, but it is also proof of the immunity of self-government to manage one of the key issues that it should manage. So we're not helping them. I shall now turn to the amendment on the issue of electronic documents from the entire public and public sector. Once again our dream of going to e-government, where we would meet not only our old partners in the European family but also much younger, such as Estonia, which is a model for e-government, is extended for another year. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to predict that next year we will be called upon to extend it for another year. In relation to the amendment by the EBRD, Article 1 extends the secondment of staff allocated by the former IKA - EBRD and the former TAFECH. I will only make one comment. From the extensions that have been given and in the past, it is clear that the staff meets standing and constant needs, that this staff are necessary for the functioning of the ECAI. Why don't distractions turn into transformations? Article 2 provides for the possibility of extending the maintenance contracts for the equipment and software of the ECAA until the new competitive procedures have been completed. Here we have a well-known wider problem, maintenance contracts end without a new contractor coming out and obviously so that the equipment is not left without maintenance. The issue of public competitive procedures is a problem, extremely time-consuming and extremely complex. It is therefore necessary to simplify the competition law, to make it clearer and clearer, so that we do not have phenomena where formal competitions take years to carry out or not allow room for various types of pathogens to be created. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u204	Thank you, Mr. Dannelly. Mrs. Jackie has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u205	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today is an important opportunity - I would say - to draw up a national strategy and policy in the field of space and another opportunity to develop the economy, to halt the leakage of human resources abroad and to make the best possible use of the possibilities offered by space technologies and to improve the daily lives of citizens from sectors related to telecommunications, trade, transport, the protection of the natural environment and agriculture. Since the end of the 1980s, ladies and gentlemen, the Greek governments have set up committees which have inextricably recommended the need to establish a Greek space service, but the suggestions in question have never been heard. Despite the fact that all European countries have created space services to better coordinate their participation in Europe's space activities, Greece is the only Member State that, while participating in ESA since 2005, has no coordinating body for its space activities, thus fragmenting its efforts in various areas, delaying the return of its important contributions to space organisations and programmes, as well as the lack of planning and implementation of national space-based services. In the meantime, the State’s registered investments in 2016 to ESA since 2005, the European Meteorological Satellites Agency since 1988 and the HELIOS II military programme since 2007 are close to 300 million. In addition, OTE's and EAB's investment in the telecommunications satellite "HELLAS SAT" is close to 150 million, without having until recently a complete operation of the two nominations held by the State, thus losing significant sources and revenues, as well as covering national guides to telecommunications and telemedicine in remote islands and others. For example, only in 2016 for our participation in the HELIOS space organisations, our country invested around EUR 23 million. Already Greek Industry has developed partnerships with key European satellite system manufacturers such as ‘AIRBUS’ such as ‘THALES ALENIA’, such as ‘HOB’, ‘SAFRAN’ and research units with the joint research centre, the European Environment Agency, and public research bodies from other countries. Whilst there is a significant human potential in the HEIs, in the research centres, in industry, a prerequisite for the further support and development of the respective economy is the creation of a coordinating body, namely the Hellenic Space Agency - from now on, I shall mention it - primarily through which the necessary space planning and coordination will be carried out for the preparation of this national space strategy and for the organisational entry of our country into both areas of the space economy and the upstream sector and the downstream sector. In other words, space technologies and applications, services and products of space technology used in terrestrial activities. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the political leadership of the Ministry of Digital Policy now perceives space technologies as a new, rapidly growing market, crucial for the development of our economy. The dynamics of our country in the field of information and communication services are well known. It employs a very important part of both international and national space activities. In addition to this key area of communication, the Ministry has also been responsible for the national digital policy and the respective operational programme and has been in cooperation through programmes for a long time and with the information and communication technology industry and research units of HEIs and TEIs, since the establishment of the Digital Convergence Programme. The establishment and operation of the ELDEO is therefore intended to serve the public interest in space, in cooperation with operators and the wider public sector as well as with the private sector. In essence, ELDEO is attempting to bring together the efforts of the scientific, research and technological bodies in the wider public sector, as well as the private sector, which is, in our country, taxed on its activities in Space. What does our country gain from the creation of this organization? I think that the benefits are many, in particular. First of all, we have a coordinated management of the country's space activities. We now have the possibility of using satellite applications and services to external activity, navigation and telecommunications. We are achieving the expanded participation of Greek operators and industry in the development of subsystems of useful space missions and we will now have the possibility of recompense and co-production to space programmes of international organisations, where our country is participating in subscriptions. Over the years we have mainly been paying, that is, investing in money, and we have not had the rewarding benefits we could have. We are exploiting our country's position on the geostatic orbit and are now creating stable and constantly increasing jobs in young scientists, engineers and technicians, which are, as a minimum, corresponding to the geographical returns that our country is entitled to. We will now have help in preventing and dealing with natural disasters, in controlling arbitrary construction, in protecting the natural environment and the marine environment, but of course also in protecting our national borders, with anything that can mean for the refugee issue and the control of migratory flows. Even in agriculture, satellite applications can be useful and we know very well what has happened with Israel that is making the most of these possibilities. Of course, there are new possibilities for exporting Greek high-tech products, which provide a high added value in the country itself. Therefore, acknowledging this development importance to the economy and the possibilities created for the Greek universities, research centres and industry, and following systematic consultation and similar information seminars and meetings with the relevant bodies, where the high and substantial interest of these bodies has emerged, precisely for this reason the leadership of the Ministry of Digital Policy has decided to create this important organisation and it is true that the effort at its beginning has been omitted by the opposition. However, what has been said to the committees, the interventions of the bodies and the renowned scientists in this area, have made it clear how important it is that it starts now. The Hellenic Space Agency can be a pillar for the development of new technologies, to claim and achieve research resources and to interconnect with international innovation centres. Of course, these have a common denominator. They aim to improve the quality of life of citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, with the creation of this agency, Greece enters the map of countries that develop space technologies and will now be able to use the research and scientific applications of ESA, in its optional programs, which, after the absence of eight years, will return our country by decision of the Minister, with the sum of EUR 8.2 million over the next three years. The reality is that so far we have invested a lot of money for our participation in European programmes, such as 'COPERNICUS' and 'GALILEO', but precisely because we did not have a specific service, we did not get 100% of the use. In other words, despite investments in space, in Greece until now there has been neither national coordination for space nor, of course, space policy, which helps maximise the return from our participation in the European institutions of the Space. Today, by voting on this bill, things change. We are now entering a time when we will have the opportunity to have another tool to defend and promote Greek interests. In essence, the operation of this agency will in a sense be refunded money we now pay for services and international organisations. Of course, it is very important to create this organisation for another reason. Because it contributes to the opposition of this great social phenomenon, of the Brain Drain, and in this way it can be part of the well-trained human resources, of the young people who have migrated abroad in recent years because they have not been in our homeland, to return and work in high-skilled jobs, with corresponding high wages. Ladies and gentlemen, we say each one of our own ideological starting points that we must create Greece tomorrow, a Greece self-powered, a Greece leading and not a pig of developments, a Greece that makes use of its potential and will be at the forefront of the issues of the top of the new technologies and innovation. This draft law we are debating today is precisely in this direction. So, now, we can also have a central planning and central coordination of all the actions required. And with this bill we can finally have a national strategy in the very critical area of Space, which is why I call on you to vote on it. I would just like to mention a few comments in the amendments, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u206	Mrs. Jackie, you've been talking nine and a half minutes already.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u207	I will only say two words, Mr President. I cannot answer Mr Varvitsiotis' orgasm that came to this Chamber to invoke us for the management of the refugee. Let me just remind you that in the days of the New Democracy, the rate of recognition of asylum applications was 0.02% in some cases. In 2017, about fifty-five thousand asylum applications were submitted in our country. Of these, recognition is at the rate of 45.5%. We all realise that this should go better. The amendments tabled today are also in line with this. It is, in other words, the fast-tracking of asylum issues for the very dismantling of the islands and I think we should all vote on them. The first is that. The second thing I would like to answer is Mr Loverd's position. I think it does not have to be a professor of Public Law to know, as long as he is a consistent parliamentarian. The possibility, under the Constitution, of creating services is, as you can see, not directly by law. Then there would be unconstitutionality. Where there is an authorised provision, either by ministerial decision or by a presidential decree. One option does not fall short of the other unless the law itself stipulates that it must be done by a Presidential Decree. Presidential decree, however, means that I add another degree of control to the Council of State, so it means additional delay. Therefore, Mr. Pappas may be a "people", but he is not a God, to establish us a new service directly with the law, as some would attempt here and want this to happen today. This has to be done by ministerial decisions, as is customary for all these years, on the basis of constitutional requirements.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u208	Thank you, Mrs. Jackie. Mr Metarakis has the floor from New Democracy. Mr Panayotaros will then be inserted, because he has asked for the floor as a parliamentary representative, and then Mrs Vayonakis and Mrs Antoniou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u209	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, paraphrasing the well-known anecdot with the worm, there is Space and under Space there are our islands. Due to the Government of Tsipras - Kammenos, on 1-1-2018, the last twenty-seven of them lose the largest financial conquest they have in Transmigration, the institution of the island VAT. The New Democracy has tabled this bill - and that is why, Mr President, I asked for the floor today - the amendment with a general number of 1393 and a special 17 - we are signing it by the colleagues of Lesvos, the Cyclades, Evros, the Dodecanese, the Magnesia and I, with whom we ask the government to extend for a year and for the thirty-two islands of Lesvos, Evros, Chios, Samos and the Dodecanese special status. And what does the government come to do? We found out yesterday. It finally abolishes at twenty-seven and gives a little extension of five months...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u210	Seven months.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u211	Seven months, which does not cover the tourist season, in August, and effectively abolishes this only substantial support that our islands had from a budgetary point of view. Ladies and gentlemen, insular VAT has been part of the acquis communautaire since the beginning of the introduction of value added tax. It was the clearest way of strengthening and supporting islands and recognising the particular features and needs of these regions, such as distance from centre, difficulties in accessing goods and services, production costs, and the national need to maintain the population in extreme Greece. You say, ladies and gentlemen, that it was a requirement of the institutions. Really? Wasn't the requirement of the institutions and the previous period of governance, Samara? From 2012 to 2015? It was. But for us it was in practice a red line, until the end. And in Hardouvel's email, when we accepted minimal changes in VAT, we did not include VAT on the islands. On page 27 of Hardouvel's email, however, we stressed that the special insular VAT is a acquis communautaire and Greece will not discuss it within the framework of the Financial Adjustment Programme, but when all of Europe, after five, ten, fifteen years, makes a review of the entire European VAT system for all the islands of Europe, then Greek experience will also be discussed. That's the truth. On the pedal? When it was done, Mr Papapas, the responsible negotiation, before the 2015 referendum, will remember as the Minister of State then, that in the Greek Government's proposal to the institutions, Mr Juncker, in order to avoid the full package of measures that came, we have taken some measures. One of the measures that we had as a country then proposed was the abolition of the insular VAT, which you have brought to the House, and you are gradually abolishing it and we are now completing it, and for these twenty-seven islands and in a few months' time for another five, the special regime. That's your responsibility. You have even demonstrated in words that you do not believe in supporting islands, because even at EUR 6 billion, if I remember the number, you have included the reintroduction of the institution for the islands, not a few days ago when we voted for the social dividend, when according to the Government there was sufficient financial space, you did not include this measure. We tabled an amendment a week ago. The government didn't put it in the conversation. I hope that today the government will give Members the opportunity to discuss and vote for the amendment on the maintenance of insular VAT. It is not a solution, Minister, which remains only on five islands and for very few months. It is a transitional disposition which, according to all the islanders, according to all the newspapers, according to all the local actors, merely confirms the final decision of the government to abolish this regime. Of course, you will tell me that you are giving a one-off allowance to the logic of the election benefits. This, of course, reminds me that you give a mirror to the natives. You give them a few months' VAT advance, in order to enjoy the world in the face of Christmas, but then, in a few months' time, the sums you have given will balance with the increased VAT that these residents will pay for the basic kinds of living and in the future the cost of living will become more expensive. You are talking alternatively about a transport equivalent, which you have not defined, has not said how it will work, it is not certain that it contributes to the development of the local economy, because it will probably be about specific things. It will not, for example, concern the tourist product, which our remote islands compete with neighbouring countries with very low status. They compete and, as of 1 January, they will also pay tax on hotels, accommodation. So it's a double increase in costs. You forget in your tip to include business, you forget that we really have remote islands, small islands such as Psara, Oinouses, Arks, Kastelorizo, Psaliconis, which are affected by these measures. For example, Minister, to go from Chios to Fish and go back eight hours by boat. It's really atrocious for Greece. And for this instant Greece you come from January 1st and you increase the cost of living, production costs and reduce the competitiveness of their tourism products. Minister, we are calling on the government at the very last moment to accept this amendment, to give us a 12-month extension, to give us time to discuss with the institutions and to find a sustainable solution that supports islands. The citizens' point of view is clear. You abandoned them. And as the paper 'CULL OF HIO CULTURE' says - I will file the front page - you have handed over the guns. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u212	Thank you very much, Mr. Metarakis. The Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr Panayotaros, has the floor. Mrs Vayonakis, Mrs Antoniou, the Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres, Mr Megalomustakas, Mr Konsolas and Mr Karastasis will be followed and Mrs Arabatzi is eleven. Here, Mr. Panayotare, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u213	Thank you very much, Mr President. Before I begin, I would like to make a very small comment, and I would like to make a very small comment on the pain that the President of the Parliament caught yesterday on the rental loan and the attempt to gold the pill of his government's failures. While they have previously had on their agenda the issue of borrowing and German allowances, they have now done so with carrots, they have forgotten diligently and of course have absolutely no intention of claiming either German compensation or the loan. For those who do not know, they can see the minutes of the specific committee set up in the Greek Parliament. I was also a member of this committee. We said you were not going to do anything at all, that all this is ashes in the eyes of the world. The difference is, gentlemen, that the loan can be directly claimed because it is specific, with specific papers, while German compensation is something very difficult, so difficult that neither the committee itself has been able to come up with a finding of how much it is, what it is, how and why we have to claim it. That is the reason why we have asked for these to be separated and two different subcommittees to be subcommittees, one for the borrower and one for the claim of German allowances. I say this to remind you of who the modern Germans are - it is your words that you used in Parliament - and who are speaking and putting their country above all. Mr. Pappa, your bill is really very important. With the twenty-one amendments you have put forward, however, it has probably passed on to the second degree. As you have seen, all the speakers are mostly referring to the amendments and little to the ambitious plan of space programme and the establishment of a body by your Government. Here we would like to make a further comment. It's very nice to have grand plans and visions, like this one. But the ordinary Greek citizen will have many doubts about the success of your efforts, of your vision, just when he thinks that there will definitely be some "Carnish" in this body, which has something to do with space, satellites and anything else. As we have said, it has gone to a third fate, not even to a second one, because of the too many amendments. These amendments, according to the Conference of Presidents, should not come. But they finally came. And this shows that the Conference of Presidents, your design and programming, are written in the oldest of your shoes. We have heard the strong objections of the New Democracy to the many amendments. But who can forget, gentlemen of the New Democracy, that you brought to bills completed by their vote, such as the famous immunity given to the bankers who gave the sea loans to your parties? It was indeed a parliamentarian and it was accepted. She wasn't even ministerial. Who will forget the amendment brought by Mr Athanasios, who made oil for all those who had eaten, had misused various other extremely harmful amendments to the Greek public? We have always said that the amendments are coming, saying 'the provision is changing', 'the code', 'the law', 'the number, the numbers and the numbers', and nobody understands what this is all about. That's the way it goes through everything that the various big-workers want and everyone who's being chased and exploited in our homeland. And, of course, after a month and a half, Mr Athanasios took the amendment back, abolished it by another amendment, but the job had been done. Because, as everyone knows, in court when someone goes, the law that has the slightest penalty applies. Let us go and comment on some of the amendments because it is not possible for all of them to be commented together, we want too much time. With regard to the amendment, with a general number of 1382 and a special 27, which concerns issues of the Ministry of Migration Policy, in common for illegal immigrants, I, too, repeat what the Chief of Golden Dawn said yesterday, that the war in Iraq is over, the war in Syria is over and, in general, the war is over. So those who are considered refugees are no longer refugees and will do well to go back to their homelands, as many Syrians do, who are going from all over the world or from various other countries that really acted as refugees and not, as in Greece, as some who do literally what they want. In this amendment we are probably once again seeing your false humanism, the false humanism of all of you, who are plunging your garments for refugees, for immigrants, as you tell them or else you want to tell them, but you have them stacked and stay in some places like Moya, where neither rodents nor rats would be left. And you're constantly trying, because you can't handle this either. For those who support and support, although you have received huge amounts and funds from the European Union, from the state budget and elsewhere, you cannot do anything at all. This shows the size of your inability. I cannot comment on what Mr Varvitsiotis said from the New Democracy about the deterrence policy. A policy of prevention, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, SYRIZA and other parties, without a strong legislative framework in which illegal entry into the country, such as other countries, Hungary, Bulgaria and elsewhere, is a peculiar offence? So he doesn't step on a single one, neither for a joke nor a sample, and they come here and get cards, identities, prepaid cards, cell phones, and they have everything. And of course they send their homes back and say "Come here are the suckers, who pay us everything", steal, kill, rape and remain unpunished. With regard to Amendment No 1384, which deals with the media, we see additional gifts to the media in the attempt to manipulate them by your Government, as well as with previous law, which has reduced their taxation. We have seen what deal was, where it appears in too many newspapers, radios, television stations, even non-friendly to the government where this agenda exists with what should be based and what is not. At the same time, of course, we see nothing has been done at all about what you were saying about the big-timers, who had eaten money, etc. And we saw Mr. Bobola's loopholes that, while he was confiscated with shares and other assets, had left a large, important part of the shares from "MEGA", which in turn sold it and was irresponsible and no one knows why. We are laughing at the amendment - and here we are laughing - with a general number of 1385 on PPC, with the hundreds of thousands of households, which are power-driven, you say that you are budgeting 10 million euros to help those who no longer have electricity. And making a simple division of 10 million - it's more, but we'll accept that it's a hundred fifty thousand households without power - with the hundred and fifty thousand households, we see that they come out to get around 66 euros each household to pay off or I don't know what else to do, so you say, its cut-off power. I think the EUR 66 will give them a chance to get any candles through the winter, either to watch or to warm up or I don't know what else, because you're probably mocking, mocking and actually doing nothing at all. With regard to the amendment concerning the electronic ticket, Amendment No 1387, we are vertically opposed, because we believe that all these electronic tickets of all kinds and forms are an extra act of total control by the state or by anyone else who can control the various electronic means. The reason why the online ticket has been introduced is also to combat violence on the ground. Of course, it will never apply as much as you try to convince us about the opposite. As regards Amendment No 1388, for the specific burial fee, this should be in the previous recycling bill. Here we are seeing your revolts and your not all specific policy on recycling. You were well told in election, but in practice you have proved themselves and compared to the previous ones. As regards Amendment 1390, which has five articles, we intend to vote'residents' in one of the articles on the movement of pupils and the funds to be allocated to bus drivers and taxis. And this to correct this serious problem, this negligence, which, while the year has begun, is now coming to Christmas, is already the parents of many students paying taxi or buses to Aegean islands and other parts of the mainland to carry their children. We would like, if you can, to apply retrospectively from the start of the school year, so that they can get back the sums that parents have given to these lame times to take their children from the village - in which heroically they live - to a nearer, larger village or a city. Minister, despite the space programs you see - and which are very nice, they are really nice -, without Thrace and without Macedonia, any space programme will have no interest in it. I am referring to what has happened in Thrace over the last few days, our divided Thrace, because half of it is occupied by the Turks, as you know, and the complete and complete assimilation of the Erdogan agenda by your government officials first and foremost and best by Mr Gavroglou, but unfortunately also by the Prime Minister who made some unfortunate statements on the serious issue of mufts. We repeat and will tell you constantly that in any Muslim country in the world mufts are not elected but are appointed by the state. Turkey, moving your finger, at home, appoints the mufts. In order to know what we say and what you should answer to Mr Erdogan and Mr Gavroglou, who fully adopted the agenda. In fact, we have also seen the unfortunate incident, not to say something else, while state security moved to see at the University of Thrace who illegally mention the Muslim minority as Turkish, following Mr Gavroglou's intervention - quite accidentally! - this decision was revoked and the police were prosecuted at the Security Sub-Security Directorate in Thrace. In conclusion, I would like to refer to the most serious issue that has arisen and is supposed to be solved - so you say, you want to take off the hot potato, get rid of it once and for all - and it has to do with the name of the Skopje. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Give me a minute. The Greek State's last official position was from the Conference of Political Heads in 1993, which stated "no derivative with the term "Macedonia" in the name of Skopje". This is something that we cannot understand and even once Skopje is dissolved and begged from somewhere to be held. You could finish this in a week, because whatever your name has been proposed, they would have had to deal with their problems. But you accept and suggest the name 'New Macedonia'. It is her betrayal that has not been and anyone who dares sign this betrayal name will be accountable to the Greek people and remember that. On the issue of Macedonia, for the name of Macedonia, all Greek citizens have fought for many years when they were still under Ottoman occupation. They fought in the Balkan Wars, fought the Bulgarians, fought everyone in order to be able to be an integral part of the Greek territory, as it should be. Anything else is treason. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u214	Thank you very much Mr. Panayotar. Mrs Vayonakis will be followed by SYRIZA and, with the tolerance of everyone, we will ask for a 15-minute break, which is also imposed on the Minister present. He's got to get up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u215	Mr President, I have been here since this morning. We have a committee at 15:00. Please give me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u216	Let's take a break at least ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u217	Yes, but I also want to go to committee, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u218	I will speak, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u219	All right, Mrs. Antonio will talk next. Here, Mrs. Vagonakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u220	After Mr Varvitsiotis' declaration of intolerance, who in good cooperation, I would say, with Golden Dawn, that the refugees must be unwanted - Golden Dawn spoke of a deterrent - as if we were not in the past in an unprecedented migratory crisis that the Greek people despite closed borders, faced it and dealt with it with solidarity and dignity, I would like to speak about the bill and make an observation. The overwhelming majority of Vice-Presidents spoke of anything other than the bill. Obviously why, Minister, is in a positive direction. Now seeing the title of today's bill, one might wonder: Is Greece interested in a bill on space activities? Furthermore, it is not long before the announcements made by the Minister were made by ironic comments, particularly on the part of the Officerial Response. Ladies and gentlemen, our country is one of the few countries of the European Union which has neither yet any space organisation nor the relevant specific legislation on the licensing of space activities and the registration of space objects. I will use the words of Mr. Krimizis, professor and honest director of space programs at the University of John Hopkins, who emphasised on the relevant committee of Parliament that it is a national need for the establishment of the Hellenic Space Agency for the country and that this need existed for at least 30 years, as the country has constantly lost investment, technology and money from service crisis. Let me add that Greece, despite the fact that since 2003 it has been a member of the European Space Agency and despite the fact that it has spent more than EUR 300 million over the last few decades, has not produced a satisfactory result, since neither the will nor the necessary coordination of the bodies involved in the country's space efforts, namely the Ministry of National Defence, the Meteorological Service and the General Secretariat for Research and Technology, has been there. The result of this non-existence is the country's inability to exploit the rights in the space sector, as well as the zero commercial, scientific and research use, by not exploiting the number of applications and resources available from the European Space Agency, as well as the considerable scientific potential available to our country, which is capable of supporting such projects. And the establishment and functioning of the organization first of all will give these people the opportunity to stay in Greece, but also to those who have left will enable them to return or cooperate with it. But I will return to the original question I raised so that the people who are watching us can understand why we are talking about necessity. When we talk about space applications in a country such as Greece, it is nothing distant as it sounds, but it is about everyday life, telecommunications, radio navigation, prevention and dealing with natural disasters, control of arbitrary construction, agriculture of precise, communication of remote areas, communication in shipping between remote ships on the high seas, overlapping of electronic communications networks, as well as military applications, issues of national security, solutions to problems in international relations, as well as innovative services and products that will be produced through the research process and which will be exploited internationally. That is why I note that national security issues are planned to maintain administrative and operational autonomy of the Ministry of National Defence, with regard to space programmes and applications serving technical defence. I should also like to add that today there are dozens of businesses that operate multilaterally in the space with around two thousand scientists and the turnover of work to approach the EUR 170 million last year. According to the President of the Board of Directors of the Association of Greek Space Technology and Applications, Mr Potsi, our country has the potential to double this money in the coming years. With the introduction of uniform rules, and with the establishment of the Space Agency, we seek to give these companies a stable environment so that they can develop and offer what they can offer to our society and our economy. At the same time, however, systematic strict control and penalties are also introduced in space activities with the appointment of experts, responsible for carrying out checks and inspections at any time for anything directly or indirectly related to the activity concerned. So the bill has two legs. Initially, for the first time, we have drawn up national legislation on the exercise and supervision of space activities, aiming at establishing and strengthening our country's presence at international level, as well as at complying with international rules and principles governing the use of the automobile space, since it also uses space resources such as radio spectrum. [[At this point, the President-in-Office takes over the Vice-President of Parliament, Ms. MARios GEORGIADIS.]] In the second part of this bill we have the establishment of the Greek Space Agency. The establishment is necessary both to make more efficient use of the opportunities created in the space sector and to coordinate space actors and enterprises and to represent them in European Union and UN committees. [[At the point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing.]] I would also like to refer to a number of other issues relating to the bill but it is not enough time. For this reason, I would like to say a word on the subject of the amendments. First of all, I think that colleagues from the Confederal Group of the European United Left -Nordic Green Left should remember the past. I was not a Member of Parliament during the period New Democracy and PASOK were, but I have read on several occasions, and it seemed to me that in particular in recent years there have been very large amendments. I would also like to say that you need to take into account, ladies and gentlemen, that it is the end of the year and that there will reasonably be extensions. You who are more experienced, in any case, know that there will be extensions in order to operate certain institutions and bodies, for which it cannot be done differently. I would also like to say that it is some of the issues that are coming here, which concern bills already in consultation, such as those concerning the NATURA areas or are on the way to implementation, such as the FODs, for which another colleague spoke about earlier. Finally, what I wanted to say is that these amendments are in a positive direction and I wonder what you will do about the amendments relating to energy poverty, for example, or the reduction of PPC's household tariffs through the amendment on services of general interest, etc. I think when we talk about things, we should be closer to reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u221	Thank you, Mrs. Vagonakis. Mrs Antoniou has the floor from the New Democracy Parliamentary Group and, as has already been announced, we will proceed to a 10-15 minutes break.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u222	Mr President, can you announce the order of speakers?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u223	As soon as Mrs. Antoniou is done, I'll announce the list and then we'll take a break. Mrs. Antoniou, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u224	Thank you very much, Mr President. I, ladies and gentlemen, shall speak about the bill. I shall therefore speak of the multi-advertised bill of the Ministry of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information and not of the twenty-two MEPs, if I am not deceived - amendments. So what is foreseen? The establishment of the public limited company "ELDO S.A.", a bill which, according to the explanatory statement, is supposed to be aimed at the design of national space policy for our country and the exploitation of space applications. In fact, however, it is another great loser opportunity for the government. Because, ladies and gentlemen, you have now discovered space. This is a classic bill of SYRIZA-ANEL coexistence, as well as so many, which uniquely aims to control everything and to suit others with the implication of supposedly of space interest. As New Democracy's Sector of Research and Technology, I state very clearly that the New Democracy has supported and clearly supports the promotion of research and innovation in all areas, including the Space Sector. In addition, in 2015, we made sure that we were a full member of the European Space Agency, ESA. We therefore believe that it can, in fact, be an element of development for our country both economically and socially and technologically. We are clearly in favour of supporting research into space applications and its interconnection with production and business in this area. We believe that the practical use of space applications can actually produce beneficial results in many areas, in the daily lives of citizens, in civil protection, in national security, and even in the development of smart agriculture. Unfortunately, however, none of this is done and is not being promoted by this bill, and I am immediately explaining why. Reading the bill, and in particular the first two chapters, Minister, one really wonders whether it is a bill of a government in a modern democratic country or whether it would be better suited to other regimes, that is, if it were a bill of the North Korean Minister. The Minister responsible, Mr. Papapas, withholding for himself the title of "Space Sheriff of Space" decides for everything, literally everything! It has never happened again in any bill to provide for thirty-six the minister's powers in twenty-eight articles and for fifty references to the Minister in the first two chapters. You did that, too, Minister. The Minister therefore grants authorizations for the exercise of space activities, imposes additional conditions, alters them, controls the application, appoints experts, decides on the fate of the application. The transfer of space activities takes place only with its approval and the list is not complete. All these responsibilities are concentrated on one person. This is the transparency that the current government publishes! So how will you attract investments, Minister? How will you facilitate entrepreneurship in such a ministries, in which you will decide everything? What serious businessman will invest under these circumstances? Now we go to the Hellenic Space Organisation "ELDO S.A.", the new body you create, cut and sewn to your measures. First comment: What is, in fact, the need to create such a body? Space Agency has the US, France, Germany, the European Space Agency, ESA, as an international organisation. Greece has joined the ESA since 2005 as a member among equal states. So we discovered the space long before you. States such as Greece have mostly an office, an Space Department, which belong either to the public sector, to a Ministry, or are directly accountable to the Prime Minister. Even in the very few cases where something similar has been created today, for example in the Czech Republic, has been characterised very quickly by corruption and has actually been annulled. What, then, is the real need for such a body to operate? The second point concerns the legal nature you give this body, which is a specific legal form. We are talking about an anonymous company "Greek Space Agency S.A." which will be governed by provisions on CIEC, but at the same time also by provisions on public limited companies. The reason for this legal form is obvious. You want to be able to hire your own by derogating from the provisions of the ASP and have the absolute command. Your past in the TV licence bill is a bad example. Thirdly, this new body, which balances between the public and private sectors, has to carry out activities which are incompatible with each other. There is a clear conflict of interest in this. Mr President, this is called the 'contact of interest'. So how is it possible for a public limited company on the one hand to play the role of the country's representative in the European Space Agency at the same time as it plans to have funds from international organisations, including ESA? And it is not only funding from the international organisations, it is also the resources from the transfer and commercial exploitation of the rights of use of the Greek public. So the new body, which will be completely controlled by the Minister, will be able to share the resources at once, to whom he wants, to whomever is authorised and so on. And yours, again. You know, Minister, the institution you are creating today reminds me of the creation of Mr Fotakis, the famous ELIDEK. And there, Mr. Fotakis created a similar legal form, an institution fully controlled and directed by him to recruit people, to direct funding where he wants, a good time like what you do today. However, I must acknowledge to you that there is a difference: Derogations by way of derogation from the provisions of the AACC are provided for in the Space Agency in the first place. You will not have to make political affiliation, as your colleague, who was talking at the outset about dignity in recruitment, and then brought legislation that changed it to suit. In conclusion, I will only be content with this: We are one day after the 2018 budget was passed, which leads to the further bleeding of hundreds of thousands of pensioners, wages and free trades, increasing taxes and insurance contributions and cutting social benefits. And we heard the Prime Minister say that the funds for research have been increased. The previous government had arranged to secure resources of 1.2 billion from the ESRB. That's what you've done. You did not say that, of course. You forgot. You are therefore bringing a bill of deep ideal, with scandalous superpowers to the Minister and you are setting up a new body with the only purpose, in essence, of serving your micro-party interests and the normalisation of your own days. Furthermore, a development opportunity for the country is being lost in this bill. After all, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government - let me take due account of the bill - has remained lost for some time in the Space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u225	Thank you, Mrs. Antonio. I'd like to propose something. We have reached agreement with the Minister, and if the House agrees, there is no objection to continuing the process. It's just that the Minister won't be here. I say that because many of my fellow Members want the Minister here to be.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u226	It's okay. Let the Minister leave for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u227	I'm typically saying this because there has to be a government present. That's why I asked for a 10-minute break.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u228	Okay, good. There are nine speakers left on the list and four other parliamentary representatives. Then we shall proceed with the speeches and speeches of the Ministers. We continue with the Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres, Mr Anastasio Megalomoustaka. Mr. Big-fashioned, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u229	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be brief. I may not use all the minutes you give me. I shall use them for the amendments, which are too many in today's bill. I will start by saying that the Central Association has always been in favour of drawing up a national legislation and strategy for the exercise of space activities, with the aim of always strengthening our country's presence both at European and international level. As noted by the operators, Greece is one of the few countries in the world that has scientists, both in space and in companies that design and manufacture satellites. So the establishment of the Greek Space Agency will enable Greeks abroad to finally come back, to Greek scientists to be in their country to strengthen such a serious sector and to help the country in general. Greece needs state-of-the-art technology, Greece needs to strengthen the high-tech sectors, and so far, this has not happened and we hope to lead immediately in this direction. In fact, there are a lot of applications, which are related to space policy, such as precision agriculture and which enhance the economic development of the country, which strengthen productivity. It is therefore necessary to create such an institutional framework. However, such an effort needs a national strategy, a cross-party consensus is needed. You avoid all this and put above all the party interests and all that in order to satisfy the wishes of the Minister, who, with fifty provisions of this bill, takes powers which he should not have, but some other independent authority. Since then, we have not forgotten what had happened with the process of licensing the channels, which was judged as unconstitutional and saw that it was a great foul of your government. We do not want the same thing that happened then to happen with this new body today. However, if you do not change what we are proposing to you and the rest of the anti-population bodies, we will see this happen. To explain and explain why I say what I am saying, in the first chapter, which deals with the licensing of space activities and is actually registered in the National Register of Space Objects, please indicate and explain to us how the procedures for the licensing and control of the activities of these objects are being carried out, how the authorisation is withdrawn or suspended, how the activities are transferred, what the international liability for the damage is, how the costs are covered and how the National Register of Space Objects is created. On all of this, what we see is absurd - and I repeat - is that the authorisation must not, under any circumstances, be carried out by the Minister. There should be an independent authority, just as it was finally decided on the channels with the PSE. The Minister in this chapter alone, in the first chapter, in seventeen articles, is referred to thirty-six times. It seems that we want to build a monostate, not a serious body in this draft law. Also, the superpowers of the Minister, which are not specific or clear, are eye-to- eyeing. Specifically, it states: ‘The Minister may change the special conditions for authorisation. The Minister may also lay down specific conditions for the authorisation. The Minister may ask the institution for any additional information it deems necessary to examine the application. The Minister shall decide not to provide them." It is clear that the responsibilities of the Minister would fit in with a full-fledged leader. Furthermore, the proposed investor, by this draft law, is obliged to a number of requirements in order to grant the licence. In other words, some of the conditions must already be applied to operate. This immediately excludes new businesses who want to deal with this sector. The reference also to transfer of licensed space activities can create trade in space activities in the country and not bring the development that we all seek. Whilst the fact that the Minister may ask for an expert opinion, we are very afraid that we will be returning to all of this, which, up until now, you have accused us of trying to reach agreement and ask for the opinion of the 'families'. Who will appoint these experts? Are you baptizing your own experts? We now go to the second chapter, which concerns the establishment of the Hellenic Space Agency, namely, reference is made to the purpose, the subsidiaries, the share capital, the resources, the institutions of the company and the staff. Here, first of all, our objections fall within the legal form and the definition of competences. For the first time, the Government has decided to set up a private company, but it has chosen the wrong field because, in this particular case, it cannot be private. He must be public. This is what is happening throughout Europe. Unfortunately, there is a risk that there will be a distortion of the institution, but at the same time, the government itself will also be able to take over responsibilities which it should not have. I think that there is an inequality competition at this level, while the secondments to staff everywhere, by way of derogation from the provisions, concern us as the Central Association. Further movement of officials to a legal person of private law shall not be understood. In addition, there is no provision in any legislative text for a civil servant to perform duties in a legal person of private law. Another problem that concerns us is the viability of this project, as we see too many problematic situations, while the qualifications required for the position of the President and the CEO are stated that optionally or preferably we want to have a postgraduate, similar to that of this body, and we also want international experience. Is this a photographic layout? We would like further clarification on that. There are also issues of conflict of interest and a risk of interlocutory, as members of the board of directors will have the right to participate in companies taking part in the licence for these space activities. Lending is also provided by private enterprises, which may also apply for licences. Do you think that's right? Under no circumstances do we see that this is what the country needs right now and that there are clouds of opacity, as in previous times, which have led us to this situation. We now go to the Third Chapter, which concerns the last Articles 25 to 28, which contain provisions on electronic communications. In this chapter we oppose the non-participation of scientists of unknown prestige, as we have said in all the committees. There are no researchers except representatives of the ministries. So the Space Policy Council cannot be another bureaucratic agency. That's wrong. Also, the SCF determines by its decision the number of students employed and, indeed, what the level of their salaries is and what the length of their employment is. Shouldn't that be determined by us? Unfortunately, we are not making a proper piece of legislation. Also, as far as the identification of mobile subscribers is concerned, the summer amendment, which we told you it was a mistake, on the identification of subscribers to mobile phones, is corrected. There are further provisions which deal with in this third part of the Postal Legislation. This provision therefore provides that a type of special machinery for checking the contents of the items to be sent by post is to be determined again by a CRL. This is a well-known strategy of yours, KHS everywhere, which we cannot accept. Other aspects of this draft law will be identified, such as the way in which the part of the net cost is shared, which is borne by postal service providers, and the sanctions that will be imposed again by the ministers. That's a mistake! We have spoken to you many times in many bills, but unfortunately we have seen that this is a fixed policy of yours. Before I close, I would also like to ask you a relevant question, if ERT can act as a dealer and, indeed, give it a satellite spectrum, without any competition at all. I don't know if that's moral and right. The story will show. However, we are not in agreement with this choice either. And when you say "reasonable in return", what does that mean? Why don't you fix it? It is also foreseen that the payment and administration of all kinds of contributions or contributions to ECA compulsory and voluntary programmes is now the responsibility of the Minister. Once again the Minister comes to decide on everything. More generally, we have seen that in all the bills you bring us, there are presidential decrees, there are serious issues, which are regulated by the Minister alone. This is not one of the things you promised the Greeks before you came to the government. This is a wrong way of legislating, a wrong way of exercising power. We hope that you will be corrected. The amendments will be placed in our second language. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u230	Thank you, Mr. Megalustakas. I will now read the list of speakers, because many of you do not have it in your hands and you do not know the order. There are ten speakers at the end, because Mrs Kafantaris, yes, she had said that she probably could not speak because of her presidency in the committee, but will eventually take the floor. So we'll start with Mrs. Kafantari. Mr. Consolas, Mr. Karanastassis, Mrs. Arabatzi, Mr. Athanasios, Mr. Michelovanakis, Mr. Lappas, Mr. Georgantas, Mr. Bukokoros and Mrs. Vageas will be followed. These are the speakers who have said they will speak. Parliamentary representatives will also speak during the process. Here, Mrs. Kafantaris, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u231	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you for giving me their turn. First of all, we are discussing a very important bill today, which is essentially the establishment of the Hellenic Space Agency, with the task of developing activities for peaceful purposes. Our country has been one of the few countries in the European Union which has not had such an organization so far. The Greek Space Agency is therefore a legal person of private law, in the form of a TECE and is supervised by the State. Its establishment is necessary to make more efficient use of the opportunities created in the space sector, as well as to coordinate governmental work, bodies, businesses, as well as representation in committees of the European Union and the United Nations. It will be staffed by qualified high-level personnel. It is necessary, since the Agency provides the necessary satellite and space know-how to the Central Command. It will deal with sensitive issues, which will also concern the country's security and national defence. So there is a flexible - I would say - legal person, which will be supervised by the Greek State. The qualified staff from the global market and the global scientific community, which will serve this organisation on competitive working conditions, will also coordinate our country's participation in international organisations and programmes. We have an organisation, which is established by technological criteria and is required to be differentiated from certain provisions in the public sector. We must bear in mind that there are specificities, concerning the exercise, management and exploitation of rights for space objects and orbital satellites, there are issues of national security and military applications. There is also a need for specialization of staff and recruitment of qualified personnel. It is also a question of the so-called 'brain drain' that our country has been facing for years. Since 2010 with the Memorandum Policies, young skilled scientists have been leaving Greece and go abroad to look for work. It will provide a way of returning to their homeland and making a real contribution to the country's productive reconstruction. So that the Greek State can develop a national space policy and be able to actively participate, together with other European Union nations, who have space services in the challenges created by the use of space applications, it should set up its space service with all the necessary measures and at all levels of organisational structure, staff, technology equipment and so on. It is a fact - it also appeared from the consultation that took place in our committee, where bodies had been called - that this bill was embraced by the scientific community widely. And that's very important. It seemed that many bodies are involved in space technology. Space policy is opening up excellent prospects in the country for research and development in a truly dynamic sector. Many small businesses, as well as individual researchers, who can participate jointly in company programmes, will also benefit from this. I return and say that our country's scientific potential really is very high and can also help in this direction. Once again, I would like to say this: when a few months ago the consultation and debate on this space organisation by the Ministry of Digital Policy began, the treatment was also of a character, I would say, not very serious. But today, and after the consultation that took place, after the meeting held by the Committee on Production and Trade with three other committees of Parliament on Monday with Mr Verner, it really seemed the great importance of this matter and now it is being dealt with with very seriously, and I see that it is being treated by the great part of counter-population. So people need to understand that when we talk about space applications, it is nothing distant, that our country can make use of satellite technology and lay down rules and specific conditions. These new technologies will have a significant effect and a significant improvement in everyday life, in telecommunications, in rural development, in national security and in general, in civil protection, in the prevention and treatment of fires and extreme physical phenomena, which have become even more acute in recent years, so we understand the great importance of space technology in the areas of civil protection. In addition to the environment, we are talking about border monitoring, the control of arbitrary construction, communication of remote areas, issues relating to shipping and maritime transport, electronic communications, etc. Of course, there are issues of police security and military applications. Of course, it is no coincidence that recently the Greek State's contract was successfully renewed with the company "ELAS SAT", which maximised the benefits for the Greek State and, above all, ensured our rights in space, geostrategic orbit and the 39th east of Greenwich. I therefore believe that this is a very important bill, which I repeat concerns both small and medium-sized enterprises, researchers and so on. It is also a tool that was missing from our country and can help significantly to return and skilled scientists, our children, the Greeks who are abroad during the difficult years of the crisis. Mr President, I would like to ask whether the amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u232	We expect them to be announced.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u233	Good. Mr. Stathakis will tell you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u234	Thank you, Mrs. Kafantaris. Mr. Consolas has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u235	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, once again we can see that parliamentary legitimacy is being violated today in the process of discussing the draft law on the licensing of space activities. Mrs Asmakopoulou, the rapporteur of the New Democracy, has completely covered the position of the New Democracy, our objections and, at the same time, covered the issues relating to the individual articles, as well as the philosophy of the bill. Along with this debate we have the supposed possibility of discussing twenty different amendments, which are twenty different drafts. What did we not hear from the government, Mr President? If he agrees to discuss a very important amendment on the islands, which deals with the suspension of VAT rates on the island site, namely islands which are Greece itself. This attitude of the government, with suffocating control, which is expressed in this bill, is, in our view, a constitutional and parliamentary procedure that touches the limits of the legal order. Because there's no consultation. There is a unilateral energy, in particular, in amendments and in matters relating to the very lives of islanders, the very lives of the people of the region, which are very important to the national area. With regard to this draft law on the licensing of space activities, it contains arrangements that create a suffocating control regime for each activity related to space applications. The establishment, in fact, of the Greek Space Agency is more translated as an attempt by the government to create another incubator of recruitment and yet another customer network. If, however, the government wanted to work constructively and syntheticly, it would have to pursue the cooperation of universities and research centres. The Minister has not convinced us that there was substantial cooperation, discussion with the higher education institutions, with the technological institutions and with the research centres. There should be, in addition, a given and specific strategic planning. We didn't see him. This bill is, over time, a long-term plan for the country. In fact, the only strategic design that serves is absolute control by the Minister of all activities related to space applications. In this way, the prospect of developing over forty companies in Greece, which are active in the field of space research and applications, is being undermined and sedated and have a substantial wealth and highly trained human resources, which remains untapped, with this effort that the government is trying to legislate today. It is another element, another variable factor, it seems, because the course of time will have to change things, that is, this bill. There is another coordination and another control of the activities, and I must say from this point of view, in this step and this position documentes the reservations, but also the objections made by Mrs Asmakopoulou, and also by us. Allow me, Mr President, on the occasion of this amendment, which we tabled together with five other Members, to go a little further into its philosophy. Mr. Athanasios, Mr. Metarakis, Mr. Bukokoros, Mr. Brutsis is here. We have tabled a second attempt with this amendment, after seeing the outdated behaviour of the government and the Ministry of the Aegean Ministry's bill rejecting it and not accepting to discuss it. And today, the government brings twenty amendments to debate and only leaves us - with the underlying rumours - from the media, to be aware of the issues relating to rates, and from this point of view there is no real information. The Government has for the second time refused to discuss this amendment, to put it to debate and vote, and this shows that it was also its choice to abolish the reduced rates of VAT on the islands. So to stop the story of the government and government actors, that they are choices imposed on you. Mr President, I should like to state in the Minutes today Mr Juncker's answer to Mayor Kos, what he says? Let me read: 'Financial policy falls within the competence of the Member States of the European Union' and many other 'both the implementation and the means of implementing a broad fiscal commitment within the framework of the stability support programme' - listen to it - 'by the Greek authorities'. It also states that there was no proposal from Greece to the European Union institutions to maintain reduced VAT rates on the islands. Mr Vésyropoulos has spoken of this from the New Democracy's financial staff in plenary. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But let me say that the government did not speak. But he talked a little differently. He announced, if you remember, around 4-6-2015, again with press releases, including the abolition of VAT rates on the islands, which was a government proposal. And because the Members of the government are questioning it, I am tabling it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I also cite the English text, which expressly refers to the reference made by the Prime Minister and the Government that it is their proposal to abolish this, not the privilege, but the condition for the survival of islanders, which had been established before decades. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] So, ladies and gentlemen, in order to come to an agreement, it is a choice from the Tsipras Government - on the grounds of the abolition of reduced rates of VAT on the islands. If you wanted to bring in the amendment that we tabled to discuss here, very nicely, we would be helpful in this effort. We do not unilaterally agree to bring in fragmentary measures, because I must add that it was the SYRIZA - ANEL Government that had held this issue open for a long time and finally abolished it. The abolition of reduced rates of VAT on the islands includes, as we have said, the Tsipra proposal, but there is something else. It is an effort that has begun since 2015 and continues today. The government, even now, does not show sensitivities, but now fragmentedly and simply wants to pave this deadlocked policy and, unfortunately, adopt measures which are recompense measures as food, as part of the overall plan, which the National Representation had adopted at the time. I would also like to say, Mr President, that this insistence on extending the rates of public disclosure to the five refugee islands only is an unacceptable institutional change, because it has not been realised that the introduction of reduced rates of VAT on the islands is a horizontal policy and not a policy, which is only a fragmentary one. The second element is that once again the government is mocking the islanders because, in truth, if he wanted to discuss it, he had to discuss the basis of our amendment. Allow me to say another thing, Mr President, to which the government has not responded, as it says that it will extend the rates for a six-month period on the islands affected by the refugee problem. Is it true, after six months, ladies and gentlemen, that the refugee will no longer exist on these islands in the five refugee camps? Let Mr Muszalas and the government tell us here. Also, who are you laughing at when you have not carried refugees to the territory, as you have committed themselves and have not complied with the proportional distribution in Europe, or when you have imposed an increase in VAT rates on the tourist product as a whole, making it uncompetitive, as, in addition, the new fragmentation of the enforcement of the night tax is expected from the first of January? So, ladies and gentlemen of the government, it's not a reward for what you're trying to do. It is a mockery and a "priority". You know, this policy of 'population' is a policy of the penny. This is what you have to keep today, because that is why you promise in addition that you are going to cover the transport equivalent, tell us what study you are following, how much it costs, from which universities you are adopting a proposal to tackle it, from what resources and what European funds are. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to sincerely thank you for the opportunity to discuss this today, but I would like to tell you that none of the government stands up to what it has committed itself to. I'm also talking about Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Kammenos. You remember Mr. Tsipras from Rhodes saying 'Behold Rhodes, behold and fuck.' You remember Mr Kammenos too, who said that if the reduced rates of VAT are abolished, he will no longer be Minister and Member. But above all, I would like to remind you of the introduction of measures announced by Nisserro. You are talking about 'the Council on Island Policy', when it has not met once and it has decided absolutely nothing. You have not given a single franc to the island businessman, who has promised him EUR 60 million for tourism and other issues. I would also like to remind you that in the context of this debate you have ignored many factors of self-government and chambers of the island market. From the northern Aegean to Kastelorizo there are decisions by municipal councils, associations of professionals, scientific bodies - I present them in the Minutes - and you have not adopted any of their proposals on these issues. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Unfortunately, today will remain in history as the black day that you abolish the reduced rates of VAT on the islands, when their institutionalisation was a prerequisite for survival. Today, with your policy, you are even more burdened with islands, citizens. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u236	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u237	Mr President, may I have the floor for thirty seconds, for something unpleasant, which I have just been informed of?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u238	Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u239	I was now informed by a friend of the parliamentary report that journalist Dimitris Aliferopoulos, who has been covering this House for too many years, died. Demetris, Mr President, has been at AlPHA for years. In recent years it has been in the newspaper "DIMMOCRATIA". It was struck by the bad disease, in a sudden and insidious way, and in a few days it was lost, in a few days really. I'm shocked. I didn't know Dimitris Aliferopoulos was a patient. I learned at the same time that he was a patient and that he died. I felt my obligation for the years I knew him here in the House to make this report.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u240	You did very well. It expresses the whole House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u241	Mr President, I would like a minute to speak on something that the honourable Member has just said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u242	Let me finish a little bit. On behalf of the Bureau and the whole of the House, we express our warmest condolences to the loved ones of the deceased. These are really bad times. And, as you can see, I'm dressed in black as I come from the funeral of Vassili of Bescany, where the moments there were shocking. Because one day you can't baptize your child and the next day you can "go" without any warnings, because if you know what happens to you, you may even have a prevention. That's unexpected. Because I'm also close to age and I have children, I really can't think of the moments his closest faces are experiencing. Condolences for both of course. Come on, Mrs. Vaki, tell me what you would like to see Mr. Karastasis coming to Step and continue the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u243	Mr President, thank you very much. To express my grief and my sincere condolences to the tragic event. He was an excellent journalist. I would just like to make a comment on something that the New Democracy colleague said. Mr Consola, it was announced today that the VAT rate will remain reduced on five islands affected by the refugee crisis. One of the prisoners. To avoid misunderstandings and misinterpretations I say that. It has also been announced that, since the second half of 2018, something will begin, which was our constant request, the islanders, other than parties, I believe: the transport equivalent. Let's keep this. It's an important policy tool. I'm just telling you to avoid misinterpretations, based on what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u244	Thank you, Mrs. Vaki.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u245	For a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u246	Don't start the debate now. Please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u247	Mrs Vaki addressed to me, Mr President. Allow me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u248	What's personal? An intervention was made.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u249	It was a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u250	Mr President, will Mrs Vaki tell us whether, after six months, the islands will cease to suffer from the refugee crisis?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u251	Mr. Consola, it doesn't lead anywhere if we start this process. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u252	The second issue. What resources will these funds be provided for in relation to the equivalent of transport?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u253	It's been a year. A year we have a reduced rate in the islands.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u254	Thirdly, why not discuss the New Democracy amendment, which is a realistic proposal and a fragmentary one, to the House that measures are being announced, which we have not seen in Parliament? Let me also say a quarter, Mr President. Mrs. Vaki, what about the other islands? With Tello, Halki, Kastelorizo?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u255	Mrs. Vaki won't answer you. So you just ask some questions, so they can be heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u256	Will the government answer us? Does he commit it to be the same application on the other islands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u257	Your parliamentary representative, as well as your rapporteur, Mrs Asimakopoulou, will be well, when the Minister comes, to ask these questions in secondary terms too, very gladly. I'm sure the Minister will be able to answer. Mr. Karastasis, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u258	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that on the issue that has been raised by the Members of the New Democracy, the government has responded and I think that in the next year that procedure will be found, as regards the relief of other islands, to which VAT is not differentiated. They are all these islands, which are currently hosting refugees. With regard to the draft law under discussion, it is an innovative draft, the necessity of which all the relevant bodies called upon at the relevant committee meeting, precisely because it is the result of the internationally established reality and the outcome of a thorough consultation. The bill has been established, on the basis of the standard law, which was discussed and ratified in the United Nations Peacekeeping Commission. The country has a very crucial international role, geopolitical and geostrategic, so the development of the space sector, research, innovation, industry and these products is of enormous importance. In addition to this, Greece, through its participation in the European Union budget, has spent millions of euros over the last two decades on its participation in European programmes, such as Galileo, the GPS European version, and Copernicus, which only partially exploits. Today, the Greek administration is making the first development of national legislation on the exercise of space activities, thereby strengthening its role and presence at European and international level among the space nations, while at the same time giving the appropriate tools and means for the integrated conduct of satellite and space policy through the newly established organisation. Furthermore, the use and exploration of the automobile space is subject to international rules and principles with which Greece is obliged to comply, since it also uses space resources, including radio spectrum and specific frequency bands, in this case for public purposes. Therefore, authorisations for space activities using space resources are also required for the purpose of practical compliance with international law, in addition to the formal signature and ratification of international conventions and treaties. In addition, the current legislative gap - all these years there has been a legislative gap - with regard to the framework for the licensing of space activities, can create different scale issues in the state administration, since Greece can be a launch state and therefore has international responsibility for space objects registered in its National Space Object Register under International Law. Officially institutionalised rules for the exercise of space activities are therefore necessary and the proposed legislation achieves the broadest and most complete possible information from the administration as regards the space objects used in any authorised space activity. At the same time, the Hellenic Space Agency is established in the form of a TEKO. Why DECLARATION? Because it is required to be staffed by qualified high-level and immediate-response staff and therefore to establish a flexible legal person, which will be owned and supervised by the Greek State - and how else would it be? - which will be able to coordinate and carry out all these activities. It should be pointed out here that Greece is one of the few countries of the European Union, which does not have a corresponding body. Of course, our country has never had a national Space Strategy before. And I'm not saying it. A leading scientist known throughout the world, Mr. Krimizis, mentioned it in committee. It was clear and it is certain that the burden of that is very important. The establishment of this organisation will be carried out in order to make use of commercial, scientific and research rights and the abundance of research and scientific applications and resources available to the European Space Agency. At this point, we must stress that the country's participation in the European Space Agency is for exclusively peaceful purposes - because others have been heard - as has also been clarified at the meeting held last Monday by the Director-General of the European Space Agency ESA, Mr Werner, on the joint committees of Parliament to present the new strategy in 'Space 4.0'. With this participation we promote the active participation of Greek scientists and companies in the design of structures, devices and software, to be used on space missions. Strengthening efforts in this area, in addition to ensuring high-skilled positions, thus achieving the reversal of Brain Drain, which has been affecting our country in recent years of the crisis, is particularly efficient for the Greek society, since the products produced are of a strong export character, and are very competitive and on earth applications, due to their strict standards of manufacture. The establishment will furthermore undertake the commercial, experimental use of public resources available under private economic criteria. It is also important to take advantage of the Greek public of the research and scientific applications resulting from space policies, such as civil protection, land monitoring - we have heard them from too many - to prevent and deal with fires, to tackle arbitrary building and guarding of borders. With the establishment of the Hellenic Space Agency, the development of the country in the space sector, through the interconnection of science, research and production, will be achieved, and the research and scientific applications of Greek enterprises, arising from space policies, are not very few - and where around two thousand people work, will be strengthened. The development of satellite infrastructure also allows easy and affordable access to innovative services such as social services, health services, teleworking, teleworking. The exercise of the country's rights in the space spectrum creates a variety of trade opportunities, which must be exploited by a European data agency that coordinates and develops space policy. Therefore, with these results, which are spread across various areas of daily life of citizens and businesses, telecommunications, navigation, etc. the current legislation, by strengthening entrepreneurship in the space and satellite sectors, is expected to help create a more favourable market framework, which has a positive impact on the national economy. Before I close, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to the other provisions relating to the National Telecommunications and Post Commission and the ERT. We are trying to fill the gaps left by the owner of the contracting company for the development of television networks - it is well known that the frequency map case - to give television to the 'white' areas, those which the sponsor company with the hundred and fifty installed transponders, instead of the two hundred fifty-six that it had - and the study mentioned - left out of free and free information and entertainment, with the tolerance of the previous governments. In conclusion, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that the initial guidelines of the policy of the newly created Ministry of Digital Policy in space were swept through many times, both within the House and through a particular section of the media. So today's debate and the debate that took place in the committees and the agreement of the relevant bodies on the need for the establishment of the Greek Space Agency, I believe, should lead us all to a process to vote on it so that we can finally as a country have a modern Greek Space Agency, which will be in the interests of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u259	Thank you, Mr. Karanastasis. Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, Mr Papachristopoulos, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u260	Thank you, Mr President. When Vid Serf, an American, united eight massive computers in Maryland, and shortly after that, the late Michalis Dertuzos from Andros, and then Nick Negreppointe, who even lives in Patmos, was getting the public character of the internet and laying the foundations for the electronic, digital age, some were mocking. They didn't know exactly what was going on. It took decades to understand that there was a revolution. With all due respect to all the revolutions - because all the revolutions had some meaning - I believe that the revolution of technology and, above all, the computer revolution made the rest look like children's toys. In fact, I would like to remind the oldest - the Minister Balafas, I am sure he will know this - that at the beginning of the industrial revolution, in the early 20th century, some 'progressors' entered the factories and broke the machinery. They were the Ludites, for those who remember, who really thought they would lose jobs and destroy machines with passion. They were worried about what was happening and whether they would lose their jobs. That's it, of course. The Industrial Revolution has gone and we are now at another stage where technology has made incredible leaps. I don't have much to say about this bill. I believe that no one was preventing the former and the Ministry from setting up and everything relating to new technologies from promoting it. The others have started for three decades. I have lived in Denmark and the Netherlands, where these countries have done twenty-five years of what we are now bringing. A question is being raised here, because I hear hard criticism from some of the groups - and I am not talking about the JRC, which I always respect - who are supposedly Europeans, advanced: Who was blocking them? What the Minister brings here today is decades of domination for others in Europe. Don't scratch wounds. I think it's the least we can do. I think that whoever is well-advanced in this Chamber has no reason to object to this particular bill. I'm sorry to say that, but maybe some people don't understand exactly what that is. They haven't figured it out. I'm closing this parentheses. I think there is no question that we, as Independent Greeks, are obviously in favour of this progress. Because that is what this is all about, it is progress and nothing more, nothing less. But I want to make two comments, no matter what the bill. I have heard, almost anger from Mr Varvitsiotis here, with an angry look about migration and suggest and do and make. I also heard opinions that the government should not speak with Erdogan, but throw him out, ban him from entering. They're some superpatriots who make politics from their offices. I would like to remind them, with simply Greek, that at some point around six to seven thousand refugees and economic immigrants were coming. On its territory Turkey has over three and a half million, many say it has touched all five million, so has Lebanon and Jordan. For those who do not know it and who sit in the office and play it over-patriots, if they think about it a little, if Turkey wants to "shoot the band in the air" - it will not do we believe - it can do so very easily and quite simply. Because I hear easy criticisms of the Prime Minister, who has agreed to speak, and of the Minister responsible, Mr Yiannis Muzala, who is lucky to know him for over thirty years, because we were running on missions together - I would like to say this: At the moment we are talking about, there are two hundred with three hundred souls a day on the islands. Even one, though, coming, not two hundred or three hundred, is 97% downflows, because in fact, from five, six and seven thousand, we have reached the two hundred, three hundred. But it is still a constant challenge that wants soundness, wisdom and above all ability. Flying words in the air is easy. But it is another thing to know how to deal with such a matter, with such a leader as Erdogan, who has been crushed with almost all the planet - even Russia and Iran see it with half an eye - which in his country of forty million tourists have been ten, whose pound is falling, which is inflation, whose growth from 6.5% has reached 2%, and which means that it is isolated. Not only are you talking to him, you have to talk. And Mr. Yannis Muzalas is fighting right now. Mr Yiannis Mousalas does not make a personal policy, but implements the government's policy. Because some brains are airy. And whoever's mean - forgive me the expression - let him go and do what Mr. Muzalas does. Let's go do it! It's always on the razor's edge, in front. And he did well and went to Turkey and I think something good will be done. Our aim is to zero the flow, not even half the flow. If we can get the people we'll send to the intestines too - the Minister is here, and he can tell us in detail - then send them to Turkey, it will be a great feat. We expect to see it. But we're fighting it. No one triumphed. I would like to say something else and I will not waste any more time, Mr President. I read Juncker's statement, too. First of all, I don't do gossip in this Chamber, and I've learned to be cool. Personal confrontations, and I said, you said, and what Mr. Lover said, I detest to answer them. But I will reply to the comment made by the President of the Commission, Juncker. I want to remind you - and I have nothing personally with Juncker, I would say he is a sympathizer and has helped us - by the following: Panos Kammenos, the Minister of National Defence, has helped refugees and economic migrants, as much as anyone else. I think Mr. Balafas will also confirm that if Mr. Muzalas himself takes the floor. It's never happened before, the Department of National Defense taking the refugee issue on his back. Mr. Vitch is in front, too. Now I saw you, I hadn't seen you, Minister, I'm sorry. He took the refugee issue on his back. It was written worldwide that the pope praised the Greek Government. The atmosphere is diffuse to all those who play a role in the European Union today, whether it's called Sulch, it's called Macron, it's called Antonio Costa, it's called Sedena, or it's called Jedillonni, they all know that this country is a democracy. It's a democracy I'm stressing! A little stone, not to mention excesses, put Panos Kammenos on. Ask, find out. I know where we give the money we get from the trials. When the newspaper “BIMA” and “THA” were convicted, because they said they were fascists and things like that, the money we donated for them. I share them. I could say a lot, how hot spots were helped, how at some point when they hadn't shut the borders was helped by Panos Kammenos. A great deal of good for this man, and I'm sorry to say it, but Mr. Juncker should have known that before making his statement. I don't want to say any more. I don't want to fire oil either. But I think we should be careful. What does Panos Kammenos and the Independent Greeks have to do with Kurts and his friend? Already, at the moment, they are organizing to close the border. They're talking to the Czech Republic. They're talking to Poland. They talk to Slovakia or I do not know what other country, with all the Visegrad countries closing the border, because it is unacceptable for Tusk's statement. What does it have to do with it? None. I'm sorry. It was a unfortunate Juncker statement. Find out, get informed. As far as I am concerned, I am a secretary of the Group of Independent Greeks and a parliamentary representative. I won't say a word, because I can't talk about my personal things. Somebody bother to look at my CV. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u261	Thank you to Mr Papachristopoulos and to the economy in time. They have asked to develop their amendments to the four Ministers. I refer to Mr. Toska, Mr. Balafas, Mr. Vitsa and Mr. Stathakis. If you have no objection, we will give each one three minutes to develop the amendments. We'll start with Mr. Toska, the Deputy Minister of the Interior. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes to develop the amendment you have tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u262	Thank you for your priority, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendments which we support today in this House relate to some modernisations, some harmonisations with the general framework that exists and the rest of the staff. I am referring to the amendment with a general number of 1396 and a special number 40, concerning the staff of special duties of the Fire Corps. The amendment enables it, if it wishes, to remain in the active service until two more years after the age limit has been reached, as is the rest of the general staff of the Firehouse. As you can see, there was a not proper harmonisation. When we say "special duties" we mean doctors, lawyers, economists, meteorologists and other such specialties. We give this possibility to these people, as is the case for the other general duties in the Fire Corps. The same will apply to the firemen and firefighters of the Fire Corps. We allow the active service to remain until the 60th year of their age, as is the case respectively for the Hellenic Police's lieutenants and sergeants. I think it's a perfectly reasonable modernisation. The second amendment concerns the functioning of the National Intelligence Service, where it allows the administrative and sub-institutions to transfer part of their powers and authorize their existing authority to sign acts and other matters of their competence by their mandate, with the approval of the Minister of Interior. The second is that officials made redundant from 1-7-2017, on their own initiative, are allowed to return to the service at their request. This concerns mainly technical staff, from which the service was denied, and you know how difficult it is to replace. The third amendment concerns DGVO, the Directorate-General for Economic and Financial Planning of the Ministry of the Interior, to which we are calling for an extension. We propose, with the amendment, an extension of one year in order to harmonise the legal framework, harmonise the existing structures and make it more effective. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u263	Thank you, Minister. The floor is held for three minutes by the Deputy Minister of National Defence Mr. Dimitrios Vitsas.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u264	Thank you, Mr President. The amendment with a general number of 3389 and a special number of 33 concerns the following: at present there are thirty-nine contractors in military hospitals. Contractors are therapists, therapists, therapists, radiologists, radiologists, radiophysicists, such specialties, which are recruited by Law 4211 of 2013 for a year that is not renewed. And of them, based on what the general staff and hospitals have sent us, we want to extend to twenty-three. Because of the thirty-nine-sixteen will, when they are to complete their term of office, and will be hired under contract again - our possibility is - twenty-two others. But they'll be new, mostly. So this amendment does, extends for these twenty-three to 31-12-2018.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u265	Mr President, may I ask a question?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u266	Here you go, Mr. Maniot.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u267	Mr. President, excuse me. As we support the amendment, I would like to confirm that this is not a photographic provision, that is, one or two people.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u268	No, it's twenty-three of the thirty-nine. And as for the other sixteen, it will not be renewed - because some people end in 2016 - because they have already been replaced or are to be replaced by permanent staff, mainly schools.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u269	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u270	Mr Statakis, I'm sorry, but I will now give the floor to the Deputy Minister for Migration Policy, Mr Balafa, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u271	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there is essentially a proposed amendment, which has some individual regulations, which change certain provisions of the current legislation of the Ministry of Migration Policy. In particular, it concerns extensions of time-limits for different individual arrangements. Because it really is not the best thing to bring any amendments, I would like to say a few words, precisely because these amendments are necessary and, more generally, the amendments. Managing and dealing with the refugee - immigration, these years have been through different phases: From the first phase of huge flows, from the next phase our northern borders have been closed down and it is still closed and concluded between the European Union and Turkey, and from there on, there has been a failure for those people who wanted to go to Central or Northern Europe and have been trapped or left in our country. And we are, I would say schematically, in a third phase, with very important problems, reducing the flows. In the past few months, we have had a very long and difficult management of the flow. The problems that we have been facing over these years and at this stage are difficult and unprecedented. We are always trying to deal with these problems, while keeping a balance between the data of Greek citizens, between their interests and the difficulties that Greek citizens are going through, and of course, to an obligation that our country, with the help of the European Union, has, with the help of international organisations, to face with solidarity and with the logic of Greek culture and the traditions of the Greek people. There's a balance. We always take care of it between these two directions. I said about the amendment and the individual provisions. With these provisions, which change some things, they will continue to operate and provide the services provided to applicants for international protection. The first two provisions extend the possibility of derogating from the existing legislation to procurement between the parties involved, whether they are Ministries - not only the Ministry of Migration Policy - whether they are legal entities governed by public law, or the Local Government, to cover urgent and exceptional needs relating to housing, food or medical care. The second provision of the four provisions also provides, by way of derogation from the existing legislation, for the secondment of either public or general public personnel or for the recruitment of contract staff to re-establish needs arising from the management of refugee and migratory flows. It is appropriate to bear in mind that the needs of the refugee-migration issue are changing needs and often there is a failure to predict them, that is to say, whether the Merkel-Erdogan relationships will fail tomorrow, whether Mosul or Raka will fall today or tomorrow and will have an impact on the refugee waves or whether there will be problems in the camps with hundreds of thousands, if not millions, refugees in Lebanon, Jordan or Turkey, this directly affects and is difficult to predict. The third provision is that which extends - the Minister for the Interior is helping us decisively in this period - the time of administrative support from the Ministry of Interior. Because it's good to make a ministry, and we're good to make it the new ministry, but from the time it's made the papers, until it's made it really is a time of terrible difficulties. If, in addition to these, subscribing and sometimes lacking know-how from our staff, you understand that the help of an experienced ministry, such as the Ministry of Interior, was needed in the previous period and needed to be extended in time until the end of the time that comes to us, i.e. until the end of 2018. Finally, there is a correction in terms of supplies, which is of no importance. In conclusion, I would like to say that it is not caused by what I mentioned in any additional expenditure either on the budget or on another financial instrument.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u272	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Stathakis, Minister for the Environment and Energy, has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u273	Ladies and gentlemen, we have announced three issues relating to social policy on energy. One was the correction of NGOs. I would remind you that last winter a number of consumers, while the electricity price has not changed - it has never changed from 2015 to 2017 - saw increased accounts, mainly because of the fact that in the way the YOIs were calculated - which is a steep ladder, so they were counted - they were changing scale. And if you had a consumption of 1599 units, you would pay a certain price, if you had 1601 paid all the YOH at the new price, which is on the new ladder. The first amendment we are bringing today, which is the product of the RAE's suggestion and extensive processing, normalises this issue. What does he actually do? First, the household that passes 1600 units will now pay the additional 1600 to 1700 at a price. The 1600 units will be left with the price they have. When she passes between 2000 and 2500, she changes her step. The previous steps will have been invoiced. So there's a straight line, basically, with one inclination. He's getting rid of this. This is therefore a solution. In fact, what changes do we make? There were four scales and we make three. Secondly, on each scale the energy you consume is invoiced and then the next one, extra, is invoiced with new charges. The big benefit will be to households with units between 1600 and 2500 kWh on the quarter, which is the large majority of households. There will be a very visible benefit there, and that is why I think this is a change that has to be made and done in the best possible way. Also, since this year, with regard to the NGO, the budget has been contributing to avoiding any increase in electricity prices. So we got rid of the 360 million from the past, from 2012 to 2016, we paid in 2017 and the budget will have a programming in both 2018 and 2019 and 2020, when we hope that the YOIs will deviate. The second dimension in this amendment is that the DEDEN becomes the sole account manager. So far it's been an IPTO. Now they're all transferred to an administrator, to the U.S.L.E.L.E.L.D. That is Amendment 1409/44/19-12-2017. The second amendment with a social sign is this: we have promised a change in the social tariff to identify and help even more - instead of having a 30% discount of 60% - 70% - the very poor households, those who receive a solidarity allowance. This reform wants a ministerial decision and will come out within the days. However, based on the data received some time ago, a thousand ninety two households in the country lost the social invoice. They can't help it. The current was cut off, while they were beneficiaries of a CIT. This development forces us to bring in a second amendment. Basically from the surplus that goes to the social dividend, we got 10 million from the budget. Within 2017 we open an account to the DEDENE. These households who lost the COT will resort to this fund. They'll reconnect. In other words, it will pay the public the costs of reconnecting and everything else it needs - some of the bill may also go back into the social invoice. So in this way to rule out any phenomenon, any case a poor household lose the power and experience the candle situation and anything else. The second amendment, therefore, under number 1385, which is the establishment of this special account of the IEDC, will come out of a ministerial decision on how to do this and what will be the committee evaluating the applications. Its aim is for the thousand ninety-two households, who came out of the COT, to be able to reconnect themselves through a process. We estimate that 10 million - the debt of these households is 13 million - is too much to be reconnected. I will go through the other amendments very quickly. The amendment with No 1388/32/15-12-2017 is the well-known issue with the burial end. The burial fee would pay for it that they didn't recycle. However, regional and local waste management plans have not been created. So another extension is being made, as has been done for two, three years. Amendment No 1394/38 is for the twenty-eight existing protected areas management bodies. A two-month extension is granted for workers. The law's ready. The law will come for operators and workers and for everything within the next two months. And last Amendment No 1376/25 concerns the extension of a temporary authorisation horizontally to PPC's power-generating modules. We are giving an extension for all units. I would remind you that PPC has submitted the files. So it is a delay that arises from our side, so as not to blame PPC. And it is proposed that there should be a two-year extension until the environmental studies and all the others provided for by the law are fully evaluated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u274	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u275	Mr President, the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u276	Mr President, Minister, on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u277	Here's the Minister. Mr. Screkas has the floor. I'm sorry, Mr. Maniots, I didn't see you. Here, Mr. Screka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u278	Mr President, if it is easy to have a single-minute position to ask questions. Since the Minister is here to answer us to decide and how to move in terms of voting.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u279	Here, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u280	Minister, we have heard what you have said about the U.S. services. What would we want to do so that we can really decide whether or not to support it? It seems to be on a good path, because you are trying to smooth down and rationalise the way in which this burden of the OHIM is shared in the electricity bills. Until 1600 kWh the charge remains the same and raise it a little. From 11 euros to be paid by someone who would consume exactly 1600 kWh, he will pay 11,18 euros, that is, 0.18 cents more. At 1800 kWh he'll pay less. On 2000 kWh, however, he would have paid - from what we count - 30 euros, and today he will pay 31 euros. So I will tell you what we would like to do so that we can judge and decide on the intention of voting. With regard to the total amount of services of general interest you will collect - let us think that last year and this year's electricity consumption will be the same and in the same way, with the same patent to say it - you as an account and as a state will have the same money as an absolute figure, less or more? Why? Because the OHIMs, as you know, had been determined with oil prices in the barrel far higher than they are today, and what you would expect is considerably reduced by the OHIM as charges on the electricity bill. So we want a clear answer as to whether or not next year - if we have the same electricity consumption and in the same way - you will collect more or less money, so that we can decide.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u281	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u282	Mr President, may I go on with the same amendment for the Minister to answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u283	Here, Mr. Maniatis, you have the floor for a minute. The Minister will answer the whole question. I would ask, however, that we do not derogate any further, because Mrs Arabatzi is patiently waiting for and I thank her very much for her patience. But let me tell you how to proceed. Two speakers will be ahead of the list, because they are patiently waiting to speak and the parliamentary representatives and the ministers have intervened, and immediately after that, the ministers are here, they will be in the process of developing their amendments. Please, Mr. Maniotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u284	Mr Minister, I would like to ask both about the YKOs and PPC. First of all, for PPC, I would like to make it quite clear from your side and to be understood in this House too, to all my fellow Members: at this moment you are proposing with your amendment that all the lignite units of PPC be extended, because if it is not extended - I want you to correct me where I am wrong - if I understand the amendment correctly, they should be closed down because they will operate illegally. Secondly, I understand that PPC has done its job properly and simply the Ministry's services - which are many times happening - did not go to the right time. I ask these questions because this amendment should not be dealt with with with the well-known environmental dimension that we all wanted. We would all like to be in a country with green energy, environmental energy, etc. I therefore consider it useful for the House to substantiate a little more extensively on your part because if this amendment is not voted for, there will be a major issue, because it is environmental and so on. Now, in relation to the NGO, I would like to ask the following question: in 2015 PPC announced that it had saved 380 million euros due to the reduced price of oil. So I am making the reasonable calculation of 380 in 2015, 380 in 2016 and 380 in 2017 - always with reference to the 2014 oil prices - and my question is: In this time, with this cumulative benefit of PPC, should the PPC not have been reduced? And why haven't they been reduced?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u285	Mr. Maniatou, you're out of time. You've been talking for two minutes already. I've refreshed him. Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u286	If you'd like, I can interrupt, Mr. President. I'm fine with it. I just think it's useful for the citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u287	I say this because we have escaped the process. You know that. Just, if you want, shorten up to close it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u288	Secondly, the European Central Bank has just announced yesterday that oil prices will rise again in the next period. Has this been taken into account in RAE's opinion? Thirdly - and lastly - question: obviously someone will pay less and more. Who will pay less and who more, we understand. It will pay less for the low consumption and more for the high consumption. Can you give them to us in a 50 or 100 million-dollar size class? Because I imagine obviously the RAE, having made the suggestion, will have told you about how much each category will pay and how much each category will get away with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u289	Mr President, I would also like to ask a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u290	Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the right to be a parliamentary representative. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u291	To support at least one amendment!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u292	So far, Mr Ministers, it has been a different charge for daily and night consumption for the OHIM.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u293	He's simulated.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u294	...and as of January 1st, will it be assimilated?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u295	He's simulated.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u296	So it's going to grow for night consumption?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u297	The price of night consumption for NGOs will be reduced.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u298	Once there's a simulation, I mean less in the morning? It was less the night charge before.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u299	Mr President, I would like to ask a question. Is it about business invoices?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u300	It's decreasing. It's dropping.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u301	Minister, is this also about PPC's professional invoices or just the household tariffs?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u302	All invoices.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u303	Please, let's just finish with the questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u304	It's the households.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u305	Minister, would you like to place on the whole for two to three minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u306	First of all, I'm going to answer for the OHIM. It's nobody's job to count on NGOs. The YES counts on the RAE. And it calculates them, taking into account the price of oil, etc. This calculation has done it in the past for the past five years, as we said. And where PPC asked for a certain amount, RAE said another amount that the Ministry accepted. So the method of calculating the OHIM is RAE's work. PPC goes and says: "I have been so costed by the unit in Crete, both the unit in Cyclades, Rhodes..." and so on. And RAE decides on the definitive amount of the YOOOs. We because - I repeat - have introduced intervention and the budget on the subject of HNOs, on the basis of the RAE forecasts - that is, in the RAE forecasts, the YEOs are about 700 million a year, the RAE has made forecasts for 2018, for 2020, taking into account the forecasts in the case of oil prices - agreed: firstly, on the basis of these figures and the fees of the YEOs that exist today, we have made a surplus of EUR 30 million for 2018. This surplus for the NGO has reduced it to 10 million. Again, we have a security, but the 20 million is the improvement we are bringing mainly to households of 1,600 to 2,500. Let me tell you the example of 2,001. They paid 80 euros for 40. With the new 6,600 of 6,9 calculation system is slightly less, 400 times 50 etc., i.e. 31. In other words, the benefit is about EUR 50 from the new calculation method for a household that is 2,001. For the night, as I told you, I think it's assimilated downwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u307	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mrs. Arabaji has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u308	Mr President, I would also like to ask the Minister a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u309	The questions have been asked to the Minister, Mr. Amyras. I'm sorry, but we got out of procedure too much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u310	Mr President, if you can, announce the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u311	Mrs Arabatzi and Mr Athanasios will now speak. The other Ministers will then intervene on their amendments. Here comes Mr. Michelovannakis, Mr. Lappas, Mr. Georgantas, Mr. Bukoros and Mrs. Vageias. They're on the chatter list. At the same time, Mr Karathanasopoulos, as a parliamentarian, may also ask for the floor to intervene.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u312	Mr President, I too would like to speak as a parliamentarian.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u313	Parliamentarians at the end. You want to talk now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u314	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u315	Of course, all parliamentarians will speak. Just because you're asking to speak lately, that's why I haven't said anything about you, Mrs. Vakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u316	Mr President, do we have an estimate of the time to complete the process?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u317	We'll make the time estimate during Mrs. Arabatzi's speech and tell you immediately afterwards. Mrs. Arabaji, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u318	Thank you, Mr President. I assume, Mr President-in-Office, that when you landed the amendments to Mr Pappa's bill, you were obviously absent from the sitting in the Senate and not in plenary. I say this because you will soon be in danger of not engaging in the benches to support them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u319	He's got seats underneath.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u320	Ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of the document provided by my colleague, Mr Manos Konsolas, the President of the European Commission to the Mayor of Kos, where it is, of course, clear that the choice to increase VAT on the thirty two islands of our country was your choice, I would like to remind my fellow Members that it was your choice to abolish the Special Tax on Agricultural Oil in the country of the European Union - your choice, according to Mr Pierre Moscovisi, so that we do not forget - and at the same time you still have this last refund that the farmers of the country will be able to get from 2015. As well as your choice was, ladies and gentlemen, the imposition of the Special Consumption Tax on wine. You know, the one that the Minister for Rural Development, but above all the Prime Minister throughout the villages and the streams, and of course also from the footstep of the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki, pledged that he would abolish in 2017 and yesterday in your budget - which you thank and smiling voted in favour - you voted for this Special Tax on Consumption in wine, that is to say, there are 28 million euros budgetd in the 2018 budget. I'm going to the bill now. I would like to say that, of course, this legislative initiative is a classic SYRIZA - ANEL legislative initiative, because it is found by deep ideas, obsessed with practices beyond the past, and it should inspire and move a new view and attitude of the country towards the modern world. An attitude and a vision, which, of course, cannot be drawn up and drawn up by small-party bumpers and by ministerial centralisation. Because, ladies and gentlemen, I am not, I imagine, the only one who got tired of reading the bill: 'the Minister may...'. Over fifty times throughout the bill there are completely interventionist and opaque references, such as "the Minister may change the special conditions for licensing, the Minister may reject the application, the Minister may see it, the Minister may reject it". It is obvious that Mr Pappa has remained a repulsive one, since he has failed to control television stations and how they are licensed. How else can one explain that in the first chapter on the licensing of space activities, you are certainly attempting to look at every aspect of the business framework of space applications? Otherwise, the purpose of the licensing of space activities is to encourage entrepreneurship through investment business interest in space. And I wonder, in what universe is this happening, Minister? Once again, of course, you have not brought us any reports from Florence and on this subject, where only four permits for space activities can be imposed. The authorisation is then granted by the Minister. The framework, however, with regard to the requirements of the State by the proposed investor is not at all clear. The reference to transfer of licensed space activities is dangerous, because it can lead to trade in space licenses and, of course, I can only point out the fact that the proposed licensing procedure excludes any start-up company that would like to have as Greece and attempt. You are so interested in new innovations, so interested in young people, so interested in stopping Brain Drain! In the second chapter you set up a public limited company, and you are trying to place powers, powers and objects on it, which must be exercised by different bodies. You forget, obviously or worse, that an anonymous company, firstly, cannot coordinate public sector bodies or shape the national strategy and most importantly, cannot represent Greece at the European Space Agency, since that is where the Member States of the European Union and other Member States are represented. In the only case in which you are proposing the private sector above the public eye - the government has decided to do something private - it is unfortunately the time that you are not allowed to do so, since the body must be public in fact. Congratulations, ladies and gentlemen of the government, not to mention, of course, among the other issues, that there is the question of distortion of competition, since it is commonly said: 'Yiannis is buying and he is drinking'! Minister, because I have listened to you at the committee meeting on both this bill and your previous bill of responsibility, on the benefits of space policy in the agricultural sector, on modernisation and on the reduction of production costs, on which the other co-legislators also made a very good point, I would like to ask you very well if you have been in contact with the Minister for Rural Development, Mr Apostle, on all of this. I ask you, Minister, because if you were here, you would know - I imagine - that the most important programme for all the things that you have been proclaiming from both the Commission's Step and, of course, from a conference that I have heard you in Thessaloniki, namely, precise agriculture, intelligent agriculture, or the valuable measure for the knowledge and innovation of the rural development programme, is unfortunately commenting on the unclaimed, due to the inability of your Government, of course three years from the beginning of the programming period, to call on the programmes concerned and to take advantage of the necessary European funds. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr President. I would remind you that according to the latest information from the European Commission, as far as we go and fall below the European average, we are five points below the level of absorption. He should have informed you, Minister, that we were the ones planning the previous Common Agricultural Policy, which for the first time we put this measure, for which you are dealing with knowledge and innovation, with funds of EUR 292 million. In fact, knowing the multifactorial dimension of innovation, we also encouraged a number of other activities when agricultural enterprises incorporated knowledge and innovation into their activities. And what did you, ladies and gentlemen of the government? This EUR 292 million came and you did it in the first amendment to the EUR 255 million programme, which of course remains frozen. So you believe in knowledge and innovation, in order to explain, so much you believe in their dynamics of contributing capital and competitiveness to the Greek rural economy and especially to young farmers! Finally, Mr Apostle should inform you that precise agriculture for reducing the use of fertilisers and pesticides, for the effectiveness of irrigation and water savings, for intelligent agriculture that is no longer based solely on empirical practice, but results from scientific measurements, with sensors, drones and satellites, for the rational and proper management of resources, as well as the digitisation of the agricultural sector and the system of governance of the common agricultural policy, in order to introduce and have results, Minister - so that you do not tell us here all the horrors about digital policy - we must finally call measure 16 on European innovation partnerships and on the synergies of rural enterprises with universities and research institutions. There is nothing in the clay and there, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u321	Why didn't you do it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u322	We did it. You've reduced them, and you've got them frozen. This is one of our alert differences. So leave the hollow words, Minister, and take the whole matter seriously. Leave the greetings, coordinate with the re-examiner in the absorbing of Minister for Rural Development and do not try to appear as the prefects of innovation and as the conquerors of space. Why, all that really has space dimensions is your lie and your uncertainty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u323	Thank you, Mrs. Arabaji. Based on our calculations, around 20:30, we are expected to have completed the process, if and if you are consistent in times.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u324	It's too late, isn't it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u325	There's a second. It is certain that the rapporteurs and the parliamentary representatives will also want to give a second answer, at least in the light of the information we have in the Bureau. Mr. Athanasios, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u326	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will only refer to two amendments. The first is the general number 1382 of the Ministry of Migration Policy, which extends the time of exceptional procurement without competition until the end of 2018. This provision was not passed by the New Democracy because, in addition to violating Union law, we wanted full transparency with pre-contractual control, which was not done. The progress so far does not guarantee that there will be transparency from now on. And that is what we say - I can assure you, coming from an island that has many immigrants - because we know what complaints are being made regarding the feeding, preservation and, of course, the housing of these people. Mr Papachristopoulos is missing, to whom I would like to say something about these problems. It is not for the moment to discuss it, but is Mr Papachristopoulos - the Parliamentary Representative of the ANELs - what is the situation on the islands and especially on Lesvos? And yesterday ten people were still stabbed. In fact, one or two people are at risk. Now is the problem and it's not solved? The problem was also in intensity in 2014, when we were government. And yet, there was guarding the borders. I do not want to go any further on this matter because it is exhausted. We have told this in the House at special sessions, in our topical and urgent questions. Nor can it be said, however, that this so-called convention - in fact, it is, it is not a contract, it is unsigned, since no European Union institution has signed it - solved any problems. All that this statement has achieved was for Turkey to make an institutional partner in the management of the Aegean with regard to migration and then a unreliable partner to prove itself. So this is for Mr. Papachristopoulos. With regard to the amendment, which we tabled together with Mr Consola, Mr Bukkoro, Mr Brutsi, Mr Metarakis, and the other island parliamentarians, concerning the VAT of the islands, I would like to say: The constitutional legislator, ladies and gentlemen, has in good time seen that there will be a great problem in the islands - especially in the border areas - and for economic reasons - transport costs are too high - but also for national reasons. In execution of the island clause, therefore, it established the reduced rates of VAT on all our islands, especially in the eastern Aegean, because the cost of producing and operating businesses is increased. And while they were all working properly, there was no problem and there was a stimulus of the economy - as much as there could be on the islands - in 2015 you suddenly abolished it. The abolition of reduced VAT rates has been constantly demanded by the troika and by our government, New Democracy, and in 2013 and 2014. Especially in 2014, the fall was intense. And yet, our government then set a red line and they weren't abolished. This is an issue, which - beware of - is not imposed by the European Union. The European Union requires you to reduce public spending in an alpha or beta way. The tax issues are decided by the Greek Government. He doesn't give you that condition. But if you agree to it, because it is international, you must respect it. I now understand that it cannot be abolished. However, there could be a suspension, as took place for 2017. Now I would like to say to you this: all this time, while we had these promises that in 2017, after we got the suspension, there would definitely be discussions with the institutions and with the President of the Commission, Mr Juncker, but nonetheless there was any discussion to rethink this whole issue, so that we would come to the current situation and make a suspension of the reduced VAT rates for only five islands - take note, not for the prefectures - and by June 2018, that is to say, only six months. And I wonder now: is this not an insult and an insult to islanders? The reasons you have made say 'because there is a migratory crisis'. So in June, is the migratory crisis going to stop? Mr Balafas is gone, too, and I'd like him to explain it to us. I don't understand. Are you sure there will be a decongestion of the islands and there will be a balanced, proportional distribution with the other regions of Greece? Do you bear in mind that in 2017, even though in the country tourism - and this was a reality - was there a reduction in tourism in Lesvos and Chios in 2017? Do you know that at the moment the tour operators have not shut even 30% of the capacity in Lesvos? Last year we went to 68%. Do you know that they only hired two cruise ships out of the fifty-seven? Do you know that charter flights have been reduced by 48% these years? So it is, as I said, perpetuating. I'd like the government to reconsider. I think you will be tabling an amendment these days, so you can see it, so that it can be extended by the end of the year and by all the prefectures. Let's just say an example. Lesvos is excluded, i.e. the measure is suspended. Why not suspend to Lemnos or to the small island, St. Stratis, or to Ikaria, to the Forens? There they suffer most, it's a poorer world. If you look at incomes and the standard of living is much lower than the other islands. So I would ask you, since you are here many ministers - I certainly do not see the Minister responsible for seeing this - to transfer this and either accept our amendment or your amendment, which will probably be discussed tomorrow and which has been tabled, to see this to the point, so that there can be this for the prefectures - and not just - and for certain islands. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying this: what has been said has not been understood. They say - they say - that all business and business are affected, anyway, by merchants. That's wrong. The people who will pay for it are the consumers. That's what you don't understand. The operator, the cost of more than transport, etc., will put it on the product. It will, of course, drop the sale of products, etc. The consumer, however, is the payer. That is why, please, the appropriate ministers who are here to look into this issue, because, as I said, this regulation, which has been made for six months and for some islands, is a mockery. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u327	Thank you, Mr. Athanasios. There are six ministers left to be seated. Each one's three minutes. They are four speakers. So there would be three ministers speaking in between, Mr. Lappa and Mr. Micholiannakis, you'd be talking. It doesn't affect the times for the rest. If you want, all the Ministers can talk and then you or three Ministers can speak in the intervening, and then you can speak in the intervening period, and then three other Ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u328	Let them take our glory, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u329	I'm just saying it because all the ministers will be released. You will have all heard of the amendments, and you will be able to be placed, if you like, on the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u330	Besides, the ministers will have some work to do with their ministries.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u331	We all have work to do, Mr. Amyras. The ministers have nothing more than us, I think. Mr. Vasiliade, you have the floor for three minutes. Mr. Skourletis, Mr. Papadimitriou, Mrs. Papanatsiou, Mr. Petropoulos, will follow and we will close the order of the Ministers with Mr. Xanthos. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u332	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendments with a general number of 1387 and a special number of 31 introduce two regulations. The first relates briefly to the extension of the fan card. For those not attending sports, I say that in June, which was given the last extension, in the draft law on the licensing of sports facilities, I informed the House that we are in consultation with the Council of Europe and UEFA and a committee set up by experts from Britain and by Greece for the revision of the whole system, the whole safety framework. We have waited for the final report by the Council of Europe and then we have gone to further legislation. The timetable for this, as we had calculated, was September and we therefore thought that by December we would be ready for a new legal framework. Although the Standing Committee of the Council of Europe held the advisory visit to our country in time and in September 2017 prepared the preliminary draft report, unfortunately this was introduced for a vote in plenary on 6 and 7 December. He went back. That is why we consider it necessary, in order not to legislate and relegate and bring about and constantly change, to give an extension for next year and within this period the whole new framework will have come. The second article, which concerns the replacement of the first subparagraph of Article 76A(1) of Law 2725, is the Sports Committee since 2005 and in view of the economic hardship that had begun to exist in the sporting public limited companies, this Sports Committee was set up to assess the value of athletes as an asset of the Sports Anonymity Company and took it into account in value in order to be able to have economically viable data. We are giving this committee an extension and we are bringing a change within the framework of December 2019, if it needs to be extended again, this can be done by a joint ministerial decision of the Ministers for Economy and Sport. It is also necessary in view of the fact that economic conditions have not changed. The financial data of public limited companies are quite problematic, and that helps. It is fair and is done in other cases, in other anonymous companies. Indeed, the value of athletes gives a goodwill to the same economic components of the teams. These are the two articles that we have brought and we are calling for Parliament to vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u333	Can I have the floor for a question?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u334	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Here you go, Mr. Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u335	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, first of all and with all the good will you must avoid putting bets on. In June 2017 you had a bet with my colleague Mr. Mavrota that by 31 December of the year, now, you would have ended the subject with the fan card. It's something we all want. We had then voted in favour of the law in 2015. We need every fan who goes and sits on the stands to know who they are by name, to get a little hooliganism and violence together on the ground. This is the fourth extension on your days. For me, there is not enough reason why you said that unfortunately he entered the House after September, and so on. The extension is for a year more, right?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u336	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u337	In other words, something which has unfortunately made it difficult for us, the plenary which entered the end of September, gives us the opportunity or the express need for you...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u338	He came in December 6th. It didn't end in September, that's the problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u339	Good. And we need another year? How are we going to deal with this issue? And on the second issue of extending for equity, so to speak, the AIFs by the end of 2019, I would like to say that we should pay attention to all bubbles in relation to invoicing, so to speak, to the value of players, because they are something similar to channels. If you remember the "ALTER", which closed, it showed value to the TV program, how much? Eight hundred million euros? He said: 'I will put the Annita Pania programme, I will cost it and I will take it as a cost - I am now hypothetical - EUR 50 million'. Are there any such safeguards? That's all.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u340	Thank you, Mr. Amyras. Minister, you have the floor, if you please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u341	On the first issue, on the fan card, to relax the climate, the complaints to Mr Mavroy as the representative of the Council of Europe for the delay.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u342	What's your bet?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u343	The programming was him. I don't remember what the bet was, but I'll make the table for him. In any case, we must wait for the Council of Europe's report to come out and the interim - and this is something we will think about solving the next period - we will resolve the issue with the demonstration of identity. We'll see about that, because I don't know how long we have to wait. Because the report will come, it will have to be processed and I am afraid we will lose. But it's a matter. And within the next period, in January, when all these issues will be discussed, we will have to see the overall safety framework. It is a matter of the committee, and the committee should do its job properly, so that we do not have these phenomena. The truth is that in the past there has been a debate. It is our intention, if the committee decides on the basis of the rules, to do its job properly. What I can say, as supervising officers, is that I will not be able to tolerate phenomena that we have experienced before, as far as possible, of course, as you can see, in the functioning of a committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u344	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Skourletis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u345	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor to refer to the amendment with a general number of 1390 and a special number of 34 and, in particular, to the first article of this amendment, which refers to the possibility that the municipalities have been given the opportunity to regulate up to a hundred instalments of overdue public debts to them. It was article 52 of Law 4483. This deadline ended in November, but, as you remember, in several municipalities we had exceptional weather conditions, so with this amendment we are giving an extension until 28 February to those municipalities affected by natural disasters. In particular, I am tabling the legislative improvement in this article, in order to be included in the scope of the amendment and regions such as Samothraki, which may not have remained in an emergency at the time of the deadline referred to in Article 52(3), but have been in an emergency situation when this deadline began and have remained for a considerable period of time, and until now, despite the formal withdrawal of the emergency situation, which, as you know, cannot last for more than two months, face very serious problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u346	I would like to refer to the third article in this particular amendment. Perhaps you should bear in mind that the posting of solid waste management bodies is imminent in public consultation in the next few days of the new draft law on waste management. There is an extension of the earlier regime, until obviously the consultation, the adoption of the law and the implementation of it are completed. The fourth article of this amendment extends the status of administrative support, as provided for in the ‘KALIKARAT’. We refer to those municipalities which have no competence in services, such as towns, etc. and administrative support is usually given to them by the capitals of the counties that belong to them, which have structured services. Of course, I would remind you that, in any event, in the next few years, we will be discussing the revision of the KALIKARAT and there will be various new arrangements, more functionally, so that we can overcome the specific needs that we will discuss. Obviously, however, there could not be an administrative gap, so this extension is being given. Article 5 of this amendment extends the possibility for the competent economic committees of the regions which have opened invitations to tender for the transfer of pupils to decide on the award of the service until the final contracts are signed, and that is precisely because we are in the middle of the year and obviously, since the final contracts have not been signed, there would be a problem with the movement of students. Finally, I would like to refer to the amendment with a general number of 1391 and a special number of 35. It concerns the repatriated expatriates of the former Soviet Union. Some administrative issues arising from the separation of the Ministry of Interior with that of the Migration Policy are resolved, as well as there is no need to look for the reimbursement of aid granted to them for rents in some cases where there had been some problems with the issues of their nationality. This is true for a six-month period and until they re-submit the corresponding supporting documents they need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u347	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The Minister for Economy and Development, Mr Papadimitriou, has the floor for three minutes and he has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u348	Thank you, Mr President. I shall refer to the amendment with a general number of 1377 and a special 26, in the case of Article 76(2) of the Development Act, n. The Commission has decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 93(2) of the EEC Treaty in respect of aid granted by the French Government to the steel industry. Date of birth: 3908/2011. The planned deadline for completion is 31 December 2017 and the amendment is extended for another year, i.e. until 31 December 2018. The purpose of the amendment is to facilitate investors, as there are serious uncertainties in the completion of their investment projects. This was the result of both the market problems and the inability of the bank to finance during the period of implementation of the investments, which led to the delay in their completion. In particular, of the EUR 2 billion of the 2011 Investment Act, sixty projects have been completed up to now, while five hundred and thirty-four aid projects of EUR 522 million are in a variety of stages of integration. The above figures illustrate the need for further extension of the date of completion of these investments while meeting the relevant requests of investors and producers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u349	Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u350	Mr President, may I ask the Minister something?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u351	Yes, Mr. Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u352	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I wanted to ask if there are backward investment plans in the 2004 Act. You told us about 2011. There are also 2004, i.e. Law 3299?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u353	There are.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u354	And if I may, do these extensions that you now give for the completion of these investment projects prevent to some extent the current development law from running? And I mean the law of 2016, Mr.4399. Do they cause candy or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u355	As far as the second question is concerned, the answer is no. As far as the first question is concerned, there are still a few, but I think there will be no extensions to them, because we have already given seven extensions for 2004.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u356	Yes, thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u357	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Papanatsiou, has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u358	Thank you, Mr President. The proposed amendment extends until 30 March of the year 2018 the exclusive one-year periods provided for in Article 127 of Law 4472/2017 and expire on 31 December of this year. The extension we are asking for is 30 March of the year 2018. What is this joint ministerial decision now about? The Joint Ministerial Decision concerns the determination of the amount, terms and conditions of payment of the disability and risk allowances of the Armed Forces and the Security Corps, and the setting of the compensation for the teaching and training staff of the military schools and the training centres of the Armed Forces and the Security Corps respectively. It is necessary because the time allowed for the adoption of the relevant ministerial decisions is not sufficient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u359	Thank you to the Minister for the brief. Mr Petropoulos, Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u360	Thank you very much, Mr President. It's two very simple provisions. The first concerns the long-term employment of workers at ECHO and banks dealing with the insurance issues of these enterprises, which are very specific. We extend this service. The second provision concerns supporting the security services of the ECA's computer systems. This extension is also necessary. I believe that the process will be completed in the first few months of 2018. But we could not leave our system without the necessary protection of security systems. These are the two simple devices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u361	Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u362	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u363	Here you go, Mr. Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u364	Thank you, Mr President. Here we have a secondment of staff allocated by OTE, banks and other bodies to the old IKA - EBRD.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u365	And I do.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u366	That's right. It was extended for three years in 2014, for an additional year in 2016, that is, until now, and we are taking a new extension until 2018. I would like to ask the following question: Since these workers seem to meet standing and constant needs - they are five years in these positions - why are they not translocated, fill out these gaps and do not go from an extension? That's the one question. My second question concerns the software of the FBI and the extension of contracts with the companies that had received the competitions for the software. Here, then, we again have the problem that the administration - I do not know what it is all about, perhaps bureaucracy, lack of know-how - is not yet ready on time to proceed to new tenders and, in any case, it extends - let me say this - these contracts. When at last the competition law legislation will be simplified and will not bring us into this position, you will also come to tell us about extensions and go from an extension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u367	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u368	Mr Amyras, I have already been consulted and, of course, the Independent Public Procurement Authority has also been given an opinion. Nothing happened without the Authority's agreement. This is a short-term delay due to the change in the public procurement law. There were some committees which ended their term of office, and that is why there was a slight delay. It is certain that this is why we are providing in the provision that the year 2018 will not be completed. Much earlier, when the competitive process has been completed, because it has already begun, this extension will end. Where it is to be awarded, the relevant service will also be carried out. You know, international conventions have this delay. We were more optimistic than we should have said for just a year. If we were talking about two years, that wouldn't happen. But we'll be done before the four-month period. I bet!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u369	I got that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u370	Before June 2018. Now it was a complicated process. You know her. With regard to workers in the banks and the DKKOs - PPC, OTE, etc. - they are qualified employees of those organizations, they are not civil servants. Since concessions have been envisaged from the outset, because their systems are specialized and the old outstandings, which are now being completed - very soon, too - have been considered necessary. Otherwise we wouldn't be able to deal with them. They're not civil servants. They've been working since 2005 and you're right, they're specialized. But we cannot make them public officials. If we could, we would. This is not the case and we are giving this extension to make use of their knowledge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u371	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The last of the Ministers on the amendments is the Minister for Health Mr Brythos. We'll continue with the list of speakers with Mr. Michologannakis. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u372	Ladies and gentlemen, it is an amendment by the Ministry of the Environment, with a general number of 1395 and a special number of 39. Actually, they're two articles. One article deals with extensions of time-limits which expired on 31-12-2017 and for various reasons, a procedure has not been completed and we are essentially extending these deadlines for one year. The first extension concerns the status of administrative and financial autonomy of the National School of Public Health. It is under the approval of the school organisation and we essentially extend until the end of 2018 the current regime, where the administrative and financial support of the school is made from the Ministry of Health's budget. The second is the extension of the regulation which provides that the amendment of the hospital agencies and of the EMCDDA may be made by joint ministerial decisions and not by presiding decrees. This enables us to proceed with a rapid and flexible process in 2018 with the amendment of all the agencies of the ESS and the ministries - the Ministry has become - and some supervised bodies, such as the CSR and the CSR. He's going to hospitals and the EKA, and we think it's over by the end of the year. There is also an extension of office concerning the geographical boundaries of the current health regions. That is where we are preparing a change in the planning of the seven current HRs. We will bring a bill of institutional reorganisation of the ESS within the first two months, hopefully no later than the first quarter of 2018, where we will also anticipate a change in this planning, and there will also be a new framework for agencies and hospitals. There is also an extension until the end of May 2018 of the temporary administration, the temporary board of directors, the new National Central Health Supplier Authority in CAPH. After that date, this board of directors will be served under the conditions of Law 4369 by the register of public officials, etc. It is also an obligation for permanent doctors of the ESS to be notified within 2018. We are prolonging the obligation for ERC doctors to claim a post from those who are proclaimed unless this post concerns a director. If it concerns other steps, they are obliged to give up their position, thereby avoiding an internal movement of medical resources into the system, which we do not want at this time. We want the system to be strengthened in real terms by new recruitment. There is also an extension concerning the liquidation of hospital submissions to EEAS. It is a new model now, where there is a system of randomised sampling and clearing of submissions and documents. They are not yet organised hospitals and their information systems to support it and we are giving an extension by mid-2018. There's the second article. It concerns the health and welfare inspectors and assistant inspectors of the ERIC, where we essentially provide for a specific procedure that has not been in place so far for the renewal of the secondment of these people, which is of three years' duration. There is an invitation made under the responsibility of the Director-General of the EEA. A three-member committee is set up by the JHA, the general public administration inspector and a Director-General of the Ministry of Health. The applications of civil servants from the public sector are evaluated, these officials are selected and seconded for three years to the EEAS. Until then, because there is now an audit work, documents, etc., we are automatically prolonging the mandate of current inspectors and assistant inspectors until the invitation procedure provided for in this article is operational. Basically, these two articles are. It is a little procedural, but I think it is important for the proper functioning of the health system next year.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u373	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin to tell you on a point of order how we will continue. The floor will be taken from the list of speakers by Mr. Michelogannakis and Mr. Lappas. Immediately thereafter, the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy Mr. Dendias will be inserted. We'll finish the list of speakers with Mr. Georganta and Mr. Bukkoro. Mrs Vakis will speak as the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative. The Minister will then be placed, Mr Pappas, in order to move forward in the second instances of those Members who wish to do so. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a statement to this House. The Standing Committee on Education, Research and Religious Affairs submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: ‘Amendment to Article 5 of Law 1920/1991 (A-11), in which the Act of Legislative Content of the “Muslim Religious Operations” (A-182) was ratified.’ Here, Mr. Micholonnakis, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u374	Thank you, Mr President. After the ministers, let's talk a little bit about the bill. The bill deals with three sections. Firstly, a framework of rules on the licensing and control of space activities is established. Secondly, the procedure for the registration of space objects in a special register is laid down under international law. Thirdly, the agency is established as a public limited company in a flexible form that will take over the coordination of actions and the exploitation of the rights and resources of the Greek State in space. This will help to new things, such as, firstly, environmental applications, secondly border monitoring, thirdly arbitrary construction, fourth in precision agriculture, fifth in communication of remote areas, sixth in communication to shipping, seventh in the country's defence, eighth in forecasting weather phenomena and ninth in the duplication of electronic communications networks. In other words, there will be a production of innovative services and products. There will also be help in the companies in Greece, as it ensures a stable environment. Greece finally complies with the international rules governing the use of the automobile space, since it is using radio spectrum. Greece, as a launching state, is responsible for any damage caused by space objects. The Agency is flexible with technological criteria and is differentiated from certain provisions in the public sector. It requires the recruitment of qualified personnel from the world market. So we're covering a gap of many years. The government will finally have the opportunity to be represented in international and European organisations. It will help new jobs in order to return scientists who have left abroad and to develop our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u375	Thank you, Mr. Micheloannakis, and for the economy in time. Here, Mr. Lappa, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u376	Thank you, Mr President. I asked for the floor today more to make a statement in Parliament's plenary. Today, an excellent decision was published not only in general, but in European and international interest. The High Court of Justice of the European Union has today published a decision stating that the provision of ‘UBER’ services is not a provision of online application services, but a provision of transport services. In other words, it says what the draft of the Ministry of Transport in Greece actually said and then the New Democracy colleagues rose up and said that UBER is a very good company, which must act within the context of healthy competition. Gentlemen, the court now also confirms our views, the positions of the Ministry and the positions of the Greek society that the person who works in Greece wants and provides services to be taxed, such as every Greek citizen. This decision of the Supreme Court is now paving the way for UBER to fall within the regulatory framework of conventional taxi, i.e. drivers. If we are heard by travellers today, to hear once again that in the regulatory framework applicable to the drivers themselves and taxi owners, the UBER will also be subject to the obligation to act in Greece. This means equality, isopoliticalism, respect for the principles of democracy of a modern country that respects European institutions and not a 'banana' and 'Psoroccostanna' society. Therefore, your officials who have concluded agreements in the past some time ago should be in favour of UBER and should come back and say whether or not the European Court of Justice decided what it had decided. And where are you in 'persistent Europe', do you follow the court's ruling? Are you joining her, in her logic and her reasoning? We're waiting for your answer. One is that. Secondly, of course, the introduction of last minute amendments cannot mean good legislation. But, ladies and gentlemen of all the wings of this House, when we come every year in the last days of legislating to close holes and prevent arrangements arising out of a, I would say, abnormal legacy and a non-political regularity in force in the country because of the memoranda, and if you add to them the chronic pathogens of the Greek public administration, as they result in unforeseen and urgent arrangements, then the state cannot say: you know, because we have a cyclone, a large number of amendments, we did not do them because they result in poor legislation. I think that bad legislation depends not only on the number of amendments tabled, but also on their content. You need to see if they resolve issues, if they help social groups, if they really are dissipating social injustices. Then you'll tell if it's good or bad or legal. Societies are listening and they're waiting until the last hour. I'm telling you we're in a bad way and we've been setting up a few details lately. However, do we have to regulate them or leave to their fate various major social strata, structures, services, bodies and agencies? That's the question. The fact that it is a bad thing to legislate is that everyone knows it and you have done it in the years of the memoranda. We are talking about a country that has no nor legislative regularity. This results from the fact that we have no political regularity, ladies and gentlemen. We're in time of memorial service. And if the public administration does not have the means to say 'its institutional memory to honor the country itself', we will have these side effects. So let's get this over with. I heard Mr Maniotis before telling us that yesterday's budget is a budget of shame. I have to tell him something Benjamin Franklin said: To keep his momentum and anger for some other things, because often what begins with anger can end with shame. And it's probably about him directly. Because I will tell him that if the eyelid is intensified and the eyelid is opened, it will no longer have blindness, political and ideological deafness, it will understand that its partners and competitors in Europe and the world are honouring and confessing our Government and the Prime Minister. They do not spill poison and bile every day at all levels of government and political action. All levels! One hears the Chief of the Democratic Association and goes crazy. It's just poison launching. There is nothing good, nothing positive, nothing productive, nothing social! Everything is negative and unjust. Who? Those who ruled the country with you forty years. And you want to charge them to us who are struggling to get the country out of bankruptcy. Why and how? Why did you do that? So the rightful you who went bankrupt and unjust will be us fighting to get her out of bankruptcy. In any case, I leave these for Mr Maniatis, because I believe that when Mrs Gennamas goes to Europe and to the councils, her ear will be drawn a little bit. Because, Minister, yesterday he went - listen! - a big press agency in Portugal and gave an interview. Do you know what poison she spilled against the country at the expense of our Prime Minister and our government? Where? In Portugal, which, for the last three years, has been implementing a great partnership between the Socialist Party and the Left. What did the Portuguese people hear Mrs Gennimata say? That what they're doing there is like a curse and not a blessing. In any case, we leave that too. I would like to say one last thing with which I will end. I don't want to say a lot of things. Minister, I have heard you - and I was once impressed - say how space services can actually be implemented in the rural economy. Because I come from a rural prefecture, and I would very much like production costs and weather conditions and all the factors and criteria of a truly efficient and environmental policy to have a positive sign. And I wondered how this could be implemented. The day before I watched your European guest reflecting it on this nice appearance he made, I was really impressed twice. You've done this in an unsuspecting time, two months ago, in an APRC. So, if that really can happen, then, you can equip us with knowledge and information so that we can go to our region, which is 90% rural, and convince farmers that they can actually be implemented and received such space services for the benefit of production, increased productivity and the environment. Because if we really have such possibilities of use in the rural economy, one is the problem of today's farmers - everything else they can do - one has never been able to do, to reduce production costs. If the bill can actually contribute to such services, I think it is good for themselves, but also for the country. And I come to something last. Minister, I have failed to say that there is an amendment that signes speeches and relates to a simple matter. It concerns civil non-profit companies of the municipalities. So far, what did the regime say? If one of the partners of the urban non-profit companies departs, if it is 10 and one is gone, the urban company was suddenly dismantled. He didn't give the opportunity to go on with the others. This amendment, Minister, concerns the simplest, simplest thing: since the municipalities want to continue operating these structures, they want to continue. Let's give them the right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u377	Thank you, Mr. Lappa. The Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy, Mr. Dendias, has the floor for twelve minutes, while, as you will be aware, Mr. Dendas, you have eight minutes as a secondary to the amendments, as the President-in-Office had announced at the beginning of the procedure. Here, Mr. Dendia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u378	Thank you, Mr President. I won't use the 20th. I think that my colleagues are quite tired anyway. They have had to look into a wide range of amendments and issues to enable them to fulfil their duties. So what you can do at least is an economy of time. Mr President, I am pleased that at the end you have explained that you have your own amendment, because I could not understand what this philosopher was against those who reacted to the last minute's amendments. So I realized it was one of yours that's come now. Thank you, because I had a question so far.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u379	Not only mine, Mr. Dendia, but also colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u380	In any case, however, the issue you have raised is obviously not a matter for the last minute. How to solve an urban corporation is a matter that we can discuss over time. It is obviously a matter of many provisions and tax provisions. I guess it's not something that needs to be solved on Christmas Eve. I would therefore suggest that, if you would like, with good will, that we discuss it regularly and that your personal authority should not be pledged, but that Parliament's authority, by bringing visual amendments and as it has happened at the last minute, and that you also underestimated us for perhaps trying to help you. From that point on, let's get to the bill. First of all, Mr Minister, our diligent rapporteur, Mrs Asmakopoulou, was placed in all three parts of the bill. I think you are right to note that in the first section on licensing you have raised the role of Minister there, which I think you do not need. The authorisation of the activities has been passed on to the Minister as a whole. In fact, he observed that in the first part of the bill he mentioned thirty-six times the word "the Minister". I think that there is no institutional adequacy of legislation when everything moves around the Minister. Today it's you, tomorrow it's someone else from New Democracy. But this tomorrow too, by the way, can be very soon. So I am telling you this in the sense of correctness rather than political and party feasibility. It does not mean that everything should be rotated about the Minister. With regard to the second section, where you create the Hellenic Space Agency, we are honestly not sure that we understand your choice, the choice of an EKO, which is complementaryly governed by the law on public limited companies, Law 2190. We think that this two-tier choice or it conceals some feasibility - it is possible if we look at the entire legislative work of the government - or, if we want to be favourable to you, it is not very successful. We criticised you. However, I would like to say here that if our rapporteur is right and well counted, there are another twenty-five times the word 'the Minister' is mentioned. So, thirty-six and twenty-five, we go to the first two chapters sixty once. I imagine that the role of this Minister, Minister, must be very central, who wants sixty times in the first two chapters of a law to safeguard himself. What, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to extend a little - beyond that, because I think our rapporteur has covered the legislation - is the subject of the amendments. Look, I understand there are extensions. The extensions are about nine, ten if we count well in this piece of legislation. To discuss extensions. However, the logic of twenty-one amendments coming today and coming from what I hear twenty-eight and tomorrow - that is what is being shattered and we may be exceeding the number - cannot stand. He can't stand it! And the criterion used by the government's honourable Members - because I am sure they too understand that this situation does not honor neither Parliament nor the legislative work nor the country - is that 'this is what is being done to meet social needs', etc. And that can't stand any criticism. Social needs are covered if the place has a serious government. And a serious government is a government that can actually predict. It is not a government which brings legislation on the eve of Parliament's closure. In fact, Parliament would have been closed today. It is clear that these legislations come today and tomorrow precisely to serve as a vehicle of amendments. It's not the law. Because I have not diagnosed, Minister, nothing in the legislation that we have to discuss today and not on 4th, 5th or 6th of January. Your legislation is being used, either in your knowledge or in your knowledge, because you have either been asked and agreed or because you have disagreed and you have not been heard - I do not know, because your attitude contradicts your initial statement that you will not accept amendments - as a vehicle to come here twenty-one amendments. And tomorrow's piece of legislation comes to serve as a vehicle for the other amendments, which the government is currently planning and does not think we should be social. Let us really talk about these amendments, such as the amendment by the Ministry of Migration Policy, ladies and gentlemen, which extends the status of delegations by way of derogation from any provision. This Minister - who has not been here - has been a Minister for two years. Has he not yet succeeded in creating the institutional framework he needs to be able to do his job? And does it have to bring project assignments, by way of derogation, to any provision? And how good does a Member of Parliament, any Member of Parliament, have to accept that these provisions do not conceal wickedness? In any case, I say again that these things are not at all serious. I would like to end by saying: ladies and gentlemen, it is a fascinating reputation - but not a mere reputation - that the government is going to take advantage of the obvious need to simplify asylum legislation - and that is what we are in agreement and not just in agreement, but we do not understand why it has been delayed so much - by linking this to the issues of extradition. And as a result, when we say the issues of extradition, you clearly read the issues of the eight Turkish officers behind it. I have been telling you this from today, so that we can be aware that this is totally unacceptable. Totally unacceptable! It is unacceptable, in principle, that the government has not yet brought the issues of simplifying asylum legislation. Because this procedure, as it stands today, is extremely time-consuming, does not help to protect the rights of people seeking asylum, precisely because of the long time and, on the other hand, puts the country at risk the rights of the rest of the citizens and, in any case, does not correspond to the position of the rest of the European countries. However, to take advantage of this in order to bring about a provision which complicates the issue by linking it to the issue of extradition and, in fact, violating the rights of those who have already been assigned to them by Greek justice, it is something that if it happens - I hope that this warning will hold the government back and that is why I formulate it directly and clearly - we will not just find us vertically opposite, but we will create a major issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u381	Thank you, Mr. Treasury, and the economy in time. Mr Georgiodas, from the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u382	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to the honourable Member, Mr Lappa, who has previously unleashed an attack, which is all negative and which does not support the effort being made by this government. I would just like to remind you that, Mr Lappa, during the two and a half years of the Samara government - Venizelos, SYRIZA, as a opposition, voted for twice as well. One was in the famous amendment to the Roman, who was convicted of the serious offences you know and which had to be facilitated in his studies, and the second time was when some of the provisions on drug use were passed. It was only twice that the present government saw something positive in all the efforts made by the Samara Government, whether they were in relation to the upcoming households, or in relation to the provision of the funds, etc. We must have voted - I am not sluggish - at least 25% to 30% of the provisions of the present government. What we think is positive, in the right direction, is that we think it facilitates and improves the investment climate, that we think it eliminates bureaucracy or that it helps our fellow citizens, who are in the worst situation, are voting for it. So this was and is the New Democracy's responsible attitude and I ask everyone to make their self-criticism for the two and a half years of their fight. I shall now refer to only two amendments, because I think what was meant to be heard about the bill has been heard. Unfortunately, the ministers are gone. One amendment relates to what our Parliamentary representative has also referred to and concerns the Ministry of Migration Policy in terms of direct awards. It is the amendment with a general number of 1382. When the specific arrangement came for the first time in 2015, which we all remember what was the picture on the Greek islands, what was the picture in Idomen, what was the picture in Greece, we fully understood the need - in fact, by way of derogation from every provision - to allow direct awards to be made to deal with either the feeding or housing or the medical care of these people. We worked together. We voted 'yes'. This is the New Democracy's responsible attitude. But three years later, and while we know what the refugee flows are, we know about who they are in our country - and basically only on the islands of the northern Aegean - I cannot understand why we continue to have extensions of these derogating provisions. What is the unpredictable fact that we need to deal with, support, vote and bring about such a regulation again? What is going to happen in 2018, which can't be predicted at the moment? We don't know the number of refugees at the moment? We know him. Do we expect an over-increase in the next space? If that happens, in a day or two, you bring in and vote for whatever it takes. If we assess that it is an emergency, urgent need and it is due to an unforeseen event. Are we coming in advance and characterising as unforeseen events what have been predictable throughout 2017? What was predictable within 2017 in relation to the refugee flows? Where was the need to characterise all these needs as unforeseen, so that we could have this arrangement? And, of course, should this be considered at some point, are these direct assignments given? What companies are these that may take most of these projects? What money has been spent this way? What is the variation within the year justifying the designation of the unforeseen? We think we all owe this process so that we don't have to be shadowed to anyone, see it immediately. Of course, we are not simply voting against, but we are denounced the continuation of this process. We denounce it and believe that you are now exposed not only politically but also morally and criminally some, in the face of those who are trying to justify a very sensitive issue, what was in 2015, to say in 2016, and you continue it in 2017 and 2018 and has become an industry. The second amendment to which I wish to turn, Mr President, is the 1391, which concerns the cases where citizenship has been withdrawn, which has been given to repatriated homosexuals. It is a very rough wording. It is a very lame draft law, it has many points that need clarification and I think that either it serves purposes - I hope not - or it is very roughly written. The legislator is now coming to deal with cases where, while citizenship was subsequently removed due to non-legal documents - that is exactly what he says - and within a six-month period he is allowing new applications to be made, but now the new law of 2000. Let me remind colleagues, the 1993 law by which these nationalities had been given was by decision of the prefect. They were then withdrawn for the reasons I said. The Law of 2000 provides for a decision by the Director of the decentralised regional management, but the application must be made to the consular authority of the place of residence of the resident. Are you going to tell them to go back and make the application? Secondly, you are excluded from this procedure from the interviews provided for by the 1993 Act. You do not, however, specify in the draft law whether the withdrawal of citizenship is related to the interview itself if the justification given has criminal implications which have been followed and advanced. How will you come and give just a chance, while perhaps there were criminal convictions, while there are other issues, to make an application to see who and to decide on the issue of the regaining citizenship, which I consider to be the most important of all that a draft law can deliver. There is no greater weight for me in a bill which one way or another leads to the possibility of getting Greek citizenship. So this provision cannot be dealt with in such a way that a serious issue is legally relevant. I would ask the Minister - he is not here now - to consider it, because there will be many legal issues that should be dealt with and people who may have been entitled to the second chance, although I legally believe that the possibility of canceling the revocation was there anyway. No individual, administrative, enforceable act exists which cannot be cancelled if there is any new evidence justifying the annulment of the revocation. We are now bringing in a new possibility in this new way. I would therefore ask for such serious amendments, which do not, in fact, have any immediate time limit to be tabled with great care if they can pass through the relevant committees and be in relevant legislation. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u383	Thank you, Mr. Georgioda. With Mr Bukkoro, we will close the list of speakers and we will close the first round of the parliamentary representatives. Immediately afterwards, the Minister will follow. I would also ask you to inform the groups that those of the rapporteurs or of the special speakers and of the parliamentary representatives want to be seconded to come to the Chamber. If there is no desire for dentistry, we will finish the procedure with the vote and close with today's sitting. Mr. Bukkoro, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u384	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as you have seen from our rapporteur, we would not have had any serious objections to the bill. We are a side that believes sincerely and over time that any government initiative takes out the country and even if it is outside the ground borders and helps to make practical use of all these possibilities, which the planned space policy gives us, for actions and functions of everyday life, the economy and society, cannot find us opposed. Of course, some serious remarks about how you legislate on this bill our rapporteur has done, but since the morning following the debate, I have witnessed a number of unsatisfactory points of view that do not apply. Before I come to the amendments, because that is what I am going to talk about, Mr Minister, I would like to say to some honourable Members who have really made an opinion completely wrong and say 'You who have ruled forty years, what have you forty years been doing?' This legend has to end. Indeed, we have been living a period of crisis for six, seven, eight years, but colleagues who have raised such arguments must remember that per capita income in Greece in 1974 was $2,600. In 2013, in the middle of the crisis, it was close to $23,000. That is what we have done, SYRIZA colleagues, we have raised the per capita income ten times. Or do you want to seriously support here that Greece today is the same as Greece for forty years in infrastructure, on a living level, in the position of the country internationally? Are you serious? These are little stories for kids. The crisis exists. The economy, life circles, has its tops and bottoms. Watch out, 'cause the political circles do.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u385	Of course he does.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u386	Do not show as arrogant that you will be permanent at the places you are in today.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u387	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u388	I know it's annoying what I'm saying, but it's a reality. I have heard various views in this House on the amendments and on how they behave. Are amendments in blue, and when they are pink, or are legislative acts, respectively? And responsible opposition when is judged when it's in the government when it's in the Opposition or what? Are you asking for support when Mr Georgios told you before that you only supported two provisions in two and a half years? There is no comparison, of course, with our attitude and behaviour...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u389	It's a hundred two.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u390	Mr. Lappa, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u391	Why are you so bothered, ladies and gentlemen? I've listened to you all since this morning with special attention. Why are you bothering me? Is the truth now so disturbing in this place?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u392	Is that what this is?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u393	I would therefore agree, Mr Lappa, that the amendments should indeed be judged on their content. From there on, however, among others today - and before I go to the amendment we tabled and have not been accepted - there is an amendment for the management bodies of protected areas. Do you know what your government is doing? Every year in the last minute for three years it has renewed the workers' contract of work in these bodies, in these natural and cultural monuments at the same time as the Evros Delta, the Evros Dadia, Carla of Magnesia, Parnitha of Attica. Why, in other words, every year at the last minute, should you bring an amendment? Does that prove government planning? Does this prove a proper estimate of things from a government, which is not new as I've told you before? Therefore, the amendments should not only be judged on their content, but also on their use. To come up with permanent problems all the time, continuously with new extensions shows curiosity and lack of planning. And that's what your government has to do with it. We have tabled an amendment to extend the scope of the reduced rate of VAT to the last group of islands which has remained, a huge issue which also affects the latter's credibility. Maintaining reduced rates of VAT on the islands is a subject for you as a red line. And if I accept that the first group of islands, Mykonos, Santorini, Skiathos, the highly tourist islands have no problem with exception, for the second group of islands, to which also belong, Alonissos and Skopelos, where the reduced rate was abolished in June 2016, as well as for the other islands of the remote north Aegean and the Dodecanese, there was no reason to abolish. Instead of accepting to put the amendment to the debate - perhaps another to improve - the government is confined to communication, meaningless, cynical diversions. What's he doing? It says that in the islands we accept refugee flows it will be maintained for another six months. In six months will it bring about another amendment or will the refugee problem be eliminated? You have condemned refugees and immigrants first in conditions of inhumanity. If we compare, Mrs. Vaki, Moria and Amyldaleza, Amyldaleza was a five-star hotel. Today people are stabbed daily in Moria.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u394	Is that our fault?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u395	That's the truth. See what's going on in Moria. You're removing the VAT...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u396	Expose, Mr. Buquoir. Don't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u397	I know you're annoyed, but I like the fact that some things are bothering you. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In two minutes' time, Mr. President. I would therefore say to you, instead of focusing on communications, if you wish, plans, which aim to obscure reality and mock islanders, since you have effectively abolished islands, to see this again, because Yunker has told you that tax policy issues are the responsibility of the Member States and not of the European Commission. And he clearly told you that you have deceived the islanders, as you have deceived the entire Greek people. And you go out today and say 'we will give dividends to certain islands in the third group'. Has the remaining islands of the second group not suffered any consequences, such as Alonissos, Skopelos, the islands of the north Aegean, small islands with very small per capita income? Why don't you give them a dividend? Have you read the decision of the Ministry of Finance, which was posted today in “DIAGY”? Excludes 80% of the islands from the dividend. And you come and announce equivalent transport for the islands that will enhance islandity at the same time. But is there more support than reduced tax rates in the islands, ladies and gentlemen? And what's that transfer equivalent? No design. You are telling us that it will be financed by the Public Investment Programme, which is constantly falling. No design! Funny, communication, blackout, mockery. That's what you're doing. And if we organise, now that you're inaugurating space policy, Mr. Minister, you and I are both on a trip to space, whatever planet we go, you know what we'll find? Greek taxes we'll find everywhere! They've arrived in space! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u398	Thank you, Mr. Bukkaro. Ladies and gentlemen, the list of speakers has been completed. The SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative has the floor for twelve minutes. If you want, you can use time from your dentistry, which as agreed is eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u399	Mr President, I would also like to use the time of my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u400	I give you the twelve minutes and we know you have eight more.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u401	They leave as far as I can see.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u402	It's not for you. We have a book presentation, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u403	Yes, of course it's no problem. Before I begin my speech to say something about the Amygdaleza, because there was a report. And I would like to remind you that Amygdaleza has had prisoners in prison for months, locked without pre-settlement, and without a pile, because some people didn't pay it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u404	Moria has been stabbed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u405	Let's not forget that. And there's a lot more. And Petrou Rallie remember the ice cream to remember. And in this country, at least this government, when their refugees came, said 'good'. As far as your human rights lessons are concerned, do them in the European People's Party, which is upright walls and closes borders, and Mr Tusk, who wants quotas to be abolished, and in a Europe that breaks promises to relocate. You should not say this here and not to this government, ladies and gentlemen, which, as far as I remember, is concerned, is in schools, which you have not even voted on. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] I'm gonna go into the bill now. This draft law is based on three pillars. I think it's an important bill and we've discussed it sufficiently. First of all, it establishes a set of rules for the control and licensing of space activities. Secondly, it defines the framework for the registration of space objects in specific registers. Thirdly, it establishes an organisation in the form of an anonymous company, which will ensure, under the supervision of the Greek state, the rights and resources of the Greek State in space. Ladies and gentlemen, the time has come to discuss the matter before the National Representation for the period from which we are not only literally, but also transportly, light-years, as the Minister has rightly stressed at committee meetings. It was time for us to welcome the Hellenic Space Agency with due seriousness, without any micro-party purposes, but without the remembrance with which the social media and the media faced its announcement. I am in this context, because there has been a lot of hearing about the very many responsibilities that the Minister brings, if we wanted to have all our responsibilities, it is simple, we would not have done an organization. We would not have proceeded with the establishment of an organization and all we would have kept would have been an address of the Ministry to order the officials. It would be very simple. Why bother to set up an organization if that was the case? Is it therefore a national need to establish this organisation or not? I would like to say that this need has been urgent for the past thirty years and is now taking place. It is a national need, because our country is constantly suffering from uses of services that we are paying for, although in the European Space Agency, ESA, we have entered since 2004. It is a national need, not only because space has become a huge market corresponding to at least $200 billion a year, but because the 'brain drain' tool, the huge migratory flow of worthwhile Greek scientists abroad, can also be done. He can give scientists a research roof and work. It can also revive new cognitive objects, such as postgraduate studies in aerospace in Greece. It is therefore a national need for the development of scientific knowledge, but also for the economy. But it is also a social need. Because science and technology here serve everyday life. We are not in the era of the'star war' between the two superpowers. It's been too many years since. Space applications nowadays concern mapping, prevention of natural disasters, meteorology, communication of remote areas, rural activities and even arbitrary construction. Space applications and the regulation of this field have significant implications for productive reconstruction, with applications in areas such as agriculture, for example, in matters of environmental protection, but also in matters of civil protection and security, and for those relating to the dynamic communication and entrepreneurial sector. Therefore, the provisions of this draft law lay the foundations for cooperation and partnership with space technology actors and at the same time create the conditions for results in this field, with purely social recompense. Since 2015, therefore, the Government has taken significant steps to interconnect the country with digital developments, with this draft law being another step towards regulating what we call a ‘space economy’. We had the opportunity, in fact, a few days ago to listen to the Director-General of the European Space Agency, Mr Verner, and in addition to the many and interesting things he has said, let us keep an element which is also indicative of the dynamics of the space economy. Mr Verner told us that: "For every 1 euro space investment, 6 euros are returned to the European economy." We must also take this reciprocity seriously and use it as well. I would now like to address this point on the very pertinent subject of the amendments accompanying this draft bill and which, despite the objections raised by the opposition, are tabled, as we have said this morning, to respond to the legislative needs arising from the ending of the year. However, they also result from the pressure of serious social problems, which require immediate solutions. Such a case is the amendment to grant electricity reconnection to families with very low incomes. Should we or should we not come and pass this amendment? The fight against energy poverty is a lasting objective. And following the interventions by the dividend to grant the social invoice, the legalisation of the electricity reconnection allowance, if you wish, also closes a cycle of direct intervention in this respect. However, the amendments also regulate outstanding issues of the transition of the public sector to e-government. There are issues of the Ministry of Migration Policy, issues of repatriated homosexuals, deadlines in connection with the transfer of students, issues of sport governance, issues of the functioning of the NSAs, deadlines of the development law, urgent issues of the Ministry of Health, regulations for the Fire Corps, practical issues of operation of the EPC and other legislative uncertainties, which are improper, i.e. they include deadlines relating to the end of the year. It is therefore an exaggeration in my view that the placement of a section of the Anti-Population and, in particular, of the Officer, in relation to these legitimisation procedures is too much. We all remember how you yourself legislated, with countless amendments of the last minute and a body of post-night legislative improvements. Obviously, we seek smoothness in legislating, but without overlooking the need for urgent intervention on matters of major social importance, as is access to the energy mentioned above. Ladies and gentlemen, I did not intend to talk about current events, but I am forced to do so by listening to the positions of many colleagues and, in particular, to colleagues from the Staff Regulations. After the New Democracy conference, after last night's debate, at the level of the Heads of State and Government, on the budget, we see an explosion of communication enthusiasm and a simultaneous increase in the risk in relation to the country's course. We see many executives of the Officerial Response in particular, to anoint themselves as saviours of the nation and to promise with sturdy tax reliefs in the same fields where, when they ruled, they imposed the hardest taxes while at the same time blatantly accusing SYRIZA of hypocrisy for social protection measures that we try not with social protection measures that we try - away from us the success story - but with modesty to promote. However, we should be aware that these cries only finally succeed in isolating them from the citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, society is not as weak as you think. And it does not want State dismantling, or Type C prisons, or redundancies, or public service concessions to contractors, or tax exemptions only for the rich with offshore companies and tax-free deposits. No matter how much you want to change the agenda, no matter how strong you are now to the late middle-class defenders and to move our fingers, you should know that the footprint of your administration is strong and people remember it very well. Ladies and gentlemen - I am closing with this - we will continue the effort to get the country out of the memorials with society upright. We will continue to support all those who were the only ones to you who were the side losses and the details of the crisis. And you know, over the last few years over two billion have returned to society, they have returned to the low-income citizens, to the pensioners, to the young unemployed. Serious interventions have been promoted to citizens who have had difficulty access to the health system. And today this policy continues and supports those who do not have unfettered access to energy, as well as those who, in particular, have difficulties in accessing the mountains and islands, in informing, in order to combat another poverty, also through this bill. All these interventions, ladies and gentlemen, have not been accepted by your own governments. On the contrary, what you have done in recent years has been to lay off, privatize, bind the country to a wild beast - and I will therefore not resist temptation and I will say so - to increase the repression, to throw the black into public television and even more today to defend the free of canal rulers and, even - I will not resist temptation and I will say - to defend the claims of part of the officials of justice, not to control their finances in the same way as the other debtors of the 'possibly'. We are obliged, we are determined to regulate all these areas, to exercise social policy, to protect social rights, to extend our interventions to public life. And all this with one aim: finally exiting the multi-annual committee. And, you know, all this will form the basis of our crisis by Greek citizens in 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u406	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u407	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start making a reference to two people in the journalistic world who have left us in the last few days, Vassilis Beskeni and Dimitris Aliferopoulos. When a young man is lost, grief is even greater. I want to express my condolences to their relatives. One of the two I had the opportunity to get to know him in person because he was reporting on the Left, SYRIZA, for many years about the means he worked on. And to repeat - because it is not easy to say when young people are lost - that we are expressing our sincere condolences to their relatives. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that anyone who has a misappropriated criticism cannot be concealed, and in that sense I am convinced that someone must treat him either with humor or with silence. I say this because I was thinking of the world-wide criticism of the Minister for Infrastructure, when the conflict with the world-wide service company had been opened. And, of course, now, his justice has come and I would say that those who have criticised have to show self-respect to come back in public and admit the reality, namely that the European Court of Justice has found that these services are transport services and the Member States have a right - an obligation to regulate them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u408	About Uber?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u409	For Uber, yes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u410	It has a difference in Taxibeat with Uber, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u411	We'll see about Taxibeat. Don't rush, Mr. Amyras. Of course, we are the first to make use of the new technologies. However, it will not be possible to exploit the new technological vehicle for violation of any type of regulation and a vehicle for breaching any elementary labour legislation - it is not possible to do so - or the state - to agree all of us together - to do what it does not see. I think it would be immoral on our part. I therefore think that we should always have them in our minds and incorporate them in the way in which we develop political dialogue. Mr Bukkokouros is not here, who claimed that they have voted about 25% to 30% of the arrangements that we have put to the vote. I would recommend that he also update his leadership if he stops sometime and his leadership destroys and can fundamentally raise the level of political dialogue from the gossip, the Arkas' s sketches and some make news, which are admirable to find the road from Twitter to the Step of the House and the lip of the Chief of Officer's counter-population. Let me now turn to the issues of the bill and the responsibilities. I would like to repeat what our parliamentary representative has said. If we wanted to keep them for the Minister, there was no reason to establish a space service. There are countries which have simply assigned this responsibility to a directorate of the Ministry, where there are the officials taking the orders and moving forward at hand. The Greek Space Agency, which will consist of people of unknown prestige, is aware that it will develop a design, make choices for persons, alas. We have now heard here that we are going to set up a body to put 'logues'. I think that it is not a criticism that is resistant to public debate. I shall say two words about the amendments. The parliamentary amendment concerning companies in municipal, non-profit companies is accepted. It is, I think, obvious that a company should not cease to operate when one of the operators is withdrawn, because this creates very serious events. As far as I'm concerned, there has also been an extensive debate with the municipal authorities, the people of self-government. To say a few words about the islands. I do not think we need criticism here, which suggests that there is an excess of hypocrisy, because we are absolutely honest with the people, we decide and give more dividends to the people affected by the increase in VAT that comes. We also have an amendment to extend the application of the direct invoicing of advertising by media advertisers, an extension which is by the end of January, so that the tender procedure has also proceeded, that the landscape is clean and that the licensed under the law will be launched very quickly - so we are told in our contacts too - to set up the online platform for the allocation of television time. I'm talking about the well-known law. There is also the amendment to extend the digitisation of public documents, which goes until the end of 2018. That is a necessary amendment. It is absolutely certain that this is the last time this is happening, because we are in the last few days before the proclamation of the specific projects that will be generalised for the electronic handling of documents and which will make the public more effective. Some Members referred to the issue of '9.84'. My information is that efforts are being made by the Treasury. I do not know, Mr Sevastakis, if you know anything, which we - because we were at the meeting - did not have time to hear. Efforts are being made to unlock the accounts. Have they been unlocked?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u412	Mr. Pittsilis ordered a lift...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u413	Yes, sir. I think this is a very positive fact, the Independent Public Income Authority is told that it unblocked the accounts and people will be paid. It's a good thing. Look at you now, because there is also an effort to exploit, a far right in Greece exists and is called Golden Dawn and occupies the extreme right seats of Parliament or the Senate's hall. Previously it was the LAOS, which dispersed ideas and executives in Greek society and in the Greek political system. But to come here and say right-wing Papachristopoulos, who has spent months and years on humanitarian missions, I think it is an exaggeration and I will also put my signature under the observation of Papachristopoulos himself that Panos Kammenos as Minister of National Defence has mobilised the Armed Forces so that we can respond very quickly to the needs of the refugee problem. In any case, there have been initiatives by this government, which a left-wing government is saying on the left, a central can just say. Let everyone tell them what they want. Well, it's not right-wing. They are initiatives to support low incomes, which the Independent Greeks have voted for and those that characterize them as extreme right did not vote for, for Social Solidarity, for covering all the uninsured people in medical care and a number of others. On the substance of the bill now and on the whole. I think that here we have a first important legislative framework on the Space and Development of this sector. We have the ratification of the contract with HELLAS SAT, which multiplys Greece's capabilities in Space, with six transponders and seventeen transponders, i.e. almost seven transponders for the life of the satellite and of course all three telecommunications nodes, which will enable public bodies, government and others to have their own communications channels. We have the Space Law that we have discussed all these days, the establishment of the Greek Space Organization and it is - be careful! - a legislation that has started and takes effect before it even gets FEC. Ladies and gentlemen, we have had here the head of the European Space Agency, the Director General, and we have had the pleasure of announcing the establishment of a thermostat, a thermostat of the European Space Agency in Greece where companies who so far alone as the squirm - in fact - have not been able to make use of the displacement of a country, as their competitors have done internationally, have been trying to gain their share in international markets. These companies will now be able to take advantage of all the positive effects of participation in such an extensive network of start-ups developed by space applications. And that's not secondary. It is another recognition that Greece in the field of new technologies takes steps and quickly makes them. And the second result - before the bill is passed, we have not yet voted for it - is that the memorandum of cooperation with 'OHB' was signed, one of the three colossals in Europe in the field of space after 'AIRBUS' and 'THALES ALENIA', which will come and build a facility for the construction of microprocessors and satellites. So there is no need for malnutrition or reproduction of fear, malnutrition and ochrophism. Faith in our powers is needed. I think that there has also been a very clear attitude during the debate on this bill, which was, of course, overshadowed by the necessary opposition krone that did not concern the substance of the bill many times, a clear attitude, but which brings the majority of democratic political forces to awareness - and this is a very positive signal for the future of the industry - that here there is a great possibility for Greece, which we have no duty to leave. So I urge you to vote in favour of the bill and to see all of us together - Greece will be won - these results will multiply over the next few months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u414	Thank you too, Minister. No one's asked for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u415	Mr President, we want to take a second step.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u416	I am sorry, Mr President, to say that the ministerial amendments are accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u417	Ladies and gentlemen, can we agree in a year of three minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u418	Mr President, this has been discussed from the outset when we started and had said ten minutes for each rapporteur.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u419	There's no ten minutes, Mr. Synergy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u420	We agreed, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u421	You came a few minutes ago and you make your own decisions, Mr. President? Aren't we going to talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u422	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u423	I'm sorry, but you've done it before. You did it for the second time, don't trip it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u424	The man doesn't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u425	Don't do it, Mr. President, third time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u426	Six minutes is dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u427	Mr President, I would ask you to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u428	Mrs. Asmakopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u429	Perhaps, Mr President, you have not been informed - it is not your responsibility - that at the beginning of the sitting, given the number of amendments - 20 ministerialmen - which we had to discuss, we have all agreed here and changed the procedure. The majority rapporteur, too, accepted this agreement. Right? We said, then, that we would make the procedure a little different: all the ministers will come and talk and then the rapporteurs will answer 10 minutes for the amendments and for what the Minister has said in the bill. That's what we agreed on. If a colleague takes less time, obviously let him talk less time. Let's say, I'm telling you, I might not run out on the tenth. But that was our deal and I'm transferring it on behalf of all of us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u430	Okay. However, according to the Rules of Procedure, the seconds are six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u431	That's what you're right about.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u432	But you're telling me that...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u433	I told you that we were deviating from the Rules of Procedure with the agreement of all of us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u434	Good. Mr. Symphony, would you like to speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u435	Oh, no. Follow the process, in the order of the parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u436	Do you want me to take you in turn?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u437	Mr President, allow me. I did not mention why you did not give me the floor first in relation to the rest.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u438	No, I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u439	To follow the procedure normally.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u440	Maybe someone's not ready. Do you want to take it in turn?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u441	Oh, of course. Start normally in the order of special speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u442	Mr. Katsis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u443	I won't get tired, and I won't be long. I won't use the thirteenth. Just give some answers to what has been said by other colleagues. In most cases, of course, the Minister answered, but also our parliamentary representative. I would like to say two elements which show the qualitative difference and how much it improves, on the basis of the report on good legislature, the image of Parliament and the Delegation. In 2014 the then government in 57 bills brought 247 amendments, of which 60 brought them to a bill in December 2014. 40%. So 40% of the amendments had entered a bill, which is incomparable. So many things we haven't brought in a quarter of us, if we take account of the figures. Because you are accusing us of having legislation by means of acts of legislation, that is if it is unwritten. Find me an act of legislation for 2016. Find me a legislative act for 2017. Find me once you bring her here and I will apologise to Parliament, to the world that sees us and to all colleagues. Nobody's gonna find you. So you understand that the anti-population colleagues who came here stranded had come out with a phrase of extra-parliamentary Left, such as Mr Maniatis, who only mentioned Mr Venizelos and his things - listen, now, to the end of confusion - were not placed on the substance of the amendments. They didn't actually say anything. Only Mr Denkias has raised a number of issues in the amendment to the Ministry of Migration Policy bill, and indeed with some speculation - data nowhere. So they came out here all battered, and finally the bullets were unmistakable, the shots were puffy. Anyway, I think we're judging. We all understand very well that it's one of the last bills. And it is not one of the last bills because, as Mr Denkias said, we brought it because the amendments had to be passed. Is that possible? Firstly, the opening up of the procedure to enter the House was long before the budget debate began. And secondly, they were interrupted by extraordinary events, as you remember the sad events that took place in West Attica, and the planning of the legislature changed. I don't want to go on anymore. I think we are all convinced that the amendments need to be passed during this period, because the time is running out. Also, by making a design for each Ministry, we take care and solve problems of timing, which you had created, you left them open. We were under the pressure of the first two years, and we did not have time to put our schedule in order and so forth. However, after the second assessment, I think that both the extraordinary and urgent meetings have been closed and the procedure is being followed normally, except for a minimum of exceptions, and the picture has improved very much and will continue to improve. On the substance of the matter now on a number of grounds. Mr Loverdos made the criticism that the establishment - says - of the organization does not prove itself that a strategy is being created. But obviously, since there was no Greek Space Organization. How can you plan strategy? Or are you going to put the strategy in the bill that the agency is recommending? That's unheard of. One cannot answer seriously - and even when we have said that this bill is coming and buttoning with a more general grid of actions, to which the Minister for Digital Policy has said so again, with the ratification of Hellas Sat, with the veil of newly created entrepreneurship, with the creation of micro-dollars and others. So there is a more general strategy, a comprehensive plan for how we are going to this critical sector of the national economy. One more thing I really want to ask the Vice-Presidents, who still have some doubts as to whether we want to make a rhetoric. Well, judging by the perverts themselves, they're giving such objections. Are we serious? How many do you think he'll be in this organization? Four hundred? We're talking about a flexible organism. I don't know now, not to prejudge. I think, however, that, as the competent bodies with their expertise and expertise have said, a small number of workers could achieve the purpose for which the agency is founded. That's what the agencies said. So, that's what hurt us? The few dozen people? Are these our ruffles? Are you serious? We are talking here about whether there is a need, if there is a problem, whether there has been a gap so far in the issue of space licensing and activities. And another thing: The space objects who decides whether or not to be licensed? Who will take a decision on the person who can make use of technology and information, which can be relevant and influence national defence or national security? Are you serious? And the Minister won't be responsible? Where and where? Who is recommending this to know and I can say 'yes, okay, to give it to a technocrat, to an excellent man, to a Harvard guy, and he will know'? Or give it to the private sector in another state, for example, because they are already ready and know. Do you really recommend that? I don't think so. We're not opening a supermarket here. We're not emptying cafeterias. We need to know why we're talking. I want to close, 'cause I finally used the tenth. I call on the opposition parties, in closing their thoughts, because from the first moment the government's initiative was heard at the beginning of the year for the establishment of a space organisation, we have had some stages, from mocking and enclosing, to accept that it is necessary, to the necessity. So, where do we end up? At the stand of the vote. That's inconsistencies. Well, that's a mismatch. This is a sign of no serious political reason, in fact, when you even plead that you want to return to power to serve the interests of the Greek people. I therefore call on all Parliament's wings to give another thought lately and to vote in favour of this bill. It is not available for micro-political purposes, nor for confrontation and strife. It is a crucial moment for this bill to be passed. Mr. Werner was here the day before yesterday. I think we, as a National Representation, should stand up to circumstances and to what young people are already expecting from us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u444	Thank you, too. Mrs Asmakopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u445	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, all right, not crucial and vital to the draft law on ESA, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u446	My personal opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u447	Okay, I respect your personal opinion. My colleague has closed down, saying that the issue we are discussing is extremely critical and vital. All the things that we are discussing in this House are serious. Here, we are talking now about creating a NASA when there are very serious problems in the country. I think I'm expressing the world a little, who can hear us and not be so in our conversation. Secondly, in ESA, for expressing a stress because she was here - respected, we accepted him in the House, she spoke very well to us - we pay them 10 million a year. We're not free there.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u448	What did we have?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u449	As I told you, we have had so many returns for our day. Mr President, I'm sorry, I escaped in dialogue with my colleague. Minister - to come back - we are talking about this bill. I'll comment on the answers you gave to your two locations. First of all, we have criticised you in relation to the legal form you have chosen. We have also made this criticism in committee. And in committee you tabled a text of the UN Commission on the use of the automobile space to tell us - and you repeated it here today - that in the first part of the draft law on the licensing of space activities, you followed this text and that this text does not mention somewhere that all the powers belong to the Minister. Having had the opportunity to study it, Article 3 of this text stipulates that it may either be the Minister or an authority. In short, that does not oblige you in one direction. On the contrary, it gives you the choice or everything to pass by the Minister or to build an independent authority. As far as the space organisation is concerned, you really do not clear up within the text of the bill - and this is our main objection and I want you to understand - what the limits of your competence will be, namely the responsible Minister for Digital Policy and the anonymous company you are recommending. And I ask you: who will we finally be represented on ESA? Will you represent us? Will anyone represent us from this anonymous company? The bill stipulates that the objectives of the company include the coordination of national representatives in the field of space. An anonymous company, however, cannot coordinate public bodies nor can it form a national strategy, because it is primarily for a purpose in the public interest. You have not answered that enough. As regards overconcentration on your face and the choice you have made, you bring a new argument to the table. What argument is that? Your rapporteur has said so too. He says: If I wanted to keep everything for myself, since I had it as Minister, why would I give it to an anonymous company? First of all, you didn't have one, another Minister had it, because it wasn't for you. Let's start over there. So you took it to your ministry. Secondly, you have done so to free yourself, because through this space service, which has these rules of public limited liability, you do not have the same limitations as your Minister. You couldn't hire as many people as you wanted, while through this company you could do it. So that's the answer to the argument why you didn't keep it and build this company. That's exactly why we're indebted to you. You do it to get away from public rules, recruitment and payroll, too. The rapporteur said that 'all right, we won't get four hundred people'. How many will you get? I do not know if you have noticed, but in the 2018 budget you have budgeted exactly what this will cost? What's it gonna cost to get a picture? If you budget 100 million euros, then we understand that they will not be three people or they will be three expensive people. If you budget 300,000 euros, then we're discussing something different. In any case, neither budget nor plan is there nor we know where you will find the money to do this, except for the money that comes from the programs, from the refunds, because we pay 10 million to the ESA, with this money. You guys want to share that money with your own people and make them hired. That's the criticism we're making in the bill. I am going to go through the amendments, Mr Minister, and I begin with what you have to say about advertising and extension. We have criticised you in the bill, so we will obviously not be positive in the amendment, which extends one thing that you have created with a bill in which you have done a gigantic political process. You started with a completely different system and ended up in a different one. And after you've come up with the system for the canals to fix it, you're also giving them a gift to reducing their taxation, so to get to know where we ended up with it. Now give an extension to serve even more. Otherwise, we are the ones who serve the interests of the Canadian authorities, not you who bring another amendment to serve your interests and say so by the Stepma. Let's go to the theme of the dormitory announcement. Any move for newly ingenious entrepreneurship to support innovation is welcome. Here I'm just going to tell you that we're looking after each other. In what sense? In three months' time we will ask for parliamentary scrutiny: 'What, Minister? Where'd the waterbath money come from? Money's in? Did it start to work? What were the benefits?’ You claim that we will have many benefits. You're putting the cubit on high. Very nice. I'm going to put the bat high on the question I'm going to ask you in the immediate future. To close with your initial position, I want to respond to a characterization. I note that Mr Constantinea's proposal for Kalamata has been heard with great interest. You didn't put yourself on it. I suppose you do not like to support something that Mr Samaras has started for the days and is in his constituency. Besides, it's familiar with the feelings you have about Mr. Samaras. But you're making a political criticism of the subject of Wi-Fi. You said that the announcement Mr. Samaras had made at the time was a magnificence, his advisers had not told him well and he couldn't do it. I just wanted to clarify this because obviously the criticism is based on the result that this has not been achieved in the immediate future. Mr. Samaras didn't mean to do this with you to the government. He meant by a New Democracy government. And if the Government of New Democracy had left and that would have happened, not just on the subject of wi-fi. Let's go talk about the issue of what you said about the licensing contest and in the context of what you had in mind. I told you - and I do not think it would change - that we are waiting to see through the competition in this respect, if you really do what you say, namely that you have predicted that the things that have been checked are correct. I place you raised the glove and said you had to say what we thought about where you were. Obviously, we have to do whatever you have to do. Is there any doubt about that?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u450	Are you interfering with justice, too?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u451	Just a minute, because I want to ask you a few questions about this. Obviously, we have to do whatever you have to do, and we and our husbands. The ones with the cohabitation pact shouldn't we put them on the ground? Do you want to answer that, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u452	Clearly!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u453	Does Mr. Tsipras know about this? Because in his previous world, he hadn't put the lady with whom he's agreed to a cohabitation agreement. This year he put it on. I do not claim that this is illegal because I have looked at the legislation. It's not illegal. There was an ambiguity in the law, which does not exist now with the new law, and it does well not exist. At least, according to the Council of State, it does not exist, even though you have not clearly legislated. It's not clear. So don't talk about morality in relation to where you had such a magnificence. Obviously, we have to do whatever you have to do. Nobody said anything else. I have asked you another question, Minister, and you have decided that you will not respond, because you are choosing between humour and silence. That's what you say. All right! I asked you a question, therefore, about your relationship with Mr Vaxebane, about the newspaper and where the funds of Mr Vaxebane's mono-faced IKE, if you give advertising and what your relationship is. Of course I got an answer from Mr. Vaxevani's twitter. I don't know what the matter is. Maybe there's a transporting cans there. You didn't answer that. But you made a comment that I will read from my phone: “You have dropped the level of political dialogue in Tartaras. The one is reproducible, the other words of Einstein that have never been said, the third is the transfer of something that you have read on twitter before the double." I'm reading it from your twitter, so don't tell me I'm reading it indiscreetly. It's on your twitter, there it is! First of all, this refers to Mr. Mitsotakis' speech yesterday, which said that "the definition of madness according to Einstein" - and if the "goggle" you will see that many give this to Einstein, others give it to Shaw and elsewhere - "it is to do the same and wait for a different result", referring to the fact that you continue to exaggerate and believe that sometime so the Greek economy will recover. It matters, honestly, who said so? Because you want seriousness and level in political dialogue, the level we have seen from Mr Constantine, who said before that we are all unrelated. If you want level, enter Mr. Polakis' twitter and enjoy level! But, in any case, the substance counts. Does that count who said it? I mean, if I tell you: "The madness goes to the mountains," what are you going to say to me? Who said that? Don't we all know that madness isn't going to the mountains?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u454	Zachariah Papantoniou!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u455	Did you see? It doesn't matter who says anything, it matters if it's true. And can I tell you something, Minister? Your problem is not that you have a problem with the definition of madness. You have a problem with definition of truth, I'm starting to believe. And to close, Mr President, and thank you very much for your tolerance, because in words no one puts them at all, they say that one picture is a thousand words. On the subject of the amendments and the importance of the bill: This, Minister, is the body of the bill. It is twenty-one pages, twenty-three with the signatures - not to blame you - and twenty-nine articles. This is the body of the bill, and these are the amendments here. That's the picture of the truth. Say what you want for good and bad legacy. But with the truth, no one puts it to the end! Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u456	Mr. Iliopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u457	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u458	Do you want to talk too? As far as I can see, madness is at the heart of talking. Do you want to be so placed now, outside of the Rules of Procedure? Leave it for another time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u459	The cohabitation pact has been fully assimilated to the consequences of marriage. That's why the C.E.D....
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u460	Not in the law on 'outside', my colleague. It's still optional. I'm only talking about what I know.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u461	Because I am bound by confidentiality, I cannot tell you what the Eagles Commission decided the day before yesterday, but as regards the consequences of the Cohabitation Pact, it normally bears the same consequences as the marriage.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u462	Then all those who have a cohabitation agreement should have said it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u463	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u464	Here you go, Mr. Heliopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u465	Mr President, the title of yesterday and today is 'Have madness!'. So for a start, I will answer Mr Pappas, who, by showing the right benches, said that we are far-right. In recent years, the Syrians have been trying to convince us that these are something new, something progressive and we are the bad fascists, the backwards, etc. Don't think that with these bugs you can change the reality. We believe in the values and traditions of our country. That's it. We are patriotic Greek nationalists and we are not ashamed of it. You should tell us exactly what you are. Left is not the innocent dove. You are not the good guys, who for so many years have been trying to convince us that you are and that you are doing everything perfectly, that you are so social, so much love the people, because fortunately by your actions it turns out exactly the opposite. I say "happily", because the Left will return to the government after a thousand years after your own rule. You have proved with works and not with words what left means. When we come to the government, we will prove what nationalism means, what patriotism means and then the Greeks will be able to weigh the results of the two governments properly and with critical thought. She said before - to continue commenting on the last speakers - that you among the illegal immigrants said 'good!'. You have no idea that that's exactly the problem, that you had prepared them that with your own rule they can come, bring their families as well. They came here, you said "good!" and you do not understand that that is exactly the problem, the substance of the problem, that you invited them and welcomed them and have flooded Greece. You believe that by constantly dispersing them in the mainland you will solve the problem of the islands. You will obviously also create it throughout the rest of Greece. These people - you badly tell them refugees - were in countries that are not at war. So simple and clear! They're illegal immigrants. They've invaded our country. We saw that you also hosted them here yesterday in the House and the President of the Republic, the President of Parliament, came. All those people we saw as unaccompanied and well! - Prosecutors, as you present them to us to draw a tear from our eye, were some mustards, grown-ups, all men. Let us justify that. They're the future jihadists who'll be blown up. This is the 'thank you' in all the European countries to which they have invaded. You have told us a lot all these days and in the budget, but I have not had the opportunity to comment on it because I spoke at the beginning. You are trying to say that you are making social policy, that you are too polite to your policies. It turns out the other way around. Because you're also working on the Internet, I don't know if you saw today's wood in the Peace Court, Minister. And that's probably part of the methods used by the Left to end up in the hands of bankers according to the reconstruction of your own slogan. I don't know if you want to explain why this is happening. Tomorrow there will be an amendment, which we will discuss here in the House, whereby you will send prisoners who are trying to stop auctioning. This is the fingerprint of your own government. You said more. Anyway, I won't keep commenting. I will only comment on Amendment No 1374, which deals with NSAs, to which we shall vote 'at present', because you have humiliated the Greek defence industry. We in the Greek defence industry, the weapon systems want them to be the way they should be, to hand over to the nation, to our home country what they have to deliver. We should also be self-sufficient in equipment, such as neighbouring countries, which, when they buy armaments, also take know-how. You haven't learned anything from those who visit us so often. I'll come back to Erdogan's visit. So the defence systems should actually give our homeland independence. I would not say that it should be profitable, because profit is not everything in the defence systems, but they should render the national work that they actually have to accomplish, rather than humiliate them and give them an extension to make tax information, and I do not know what else the amendment says. I mean, we're literally humiliating our defence industry. In this context, we have reached it, that we need an extension to give tax information or whatever is written in the amendment. Erdogan came and for an answer, then, we have a statement by Cavusoglou in the House of Turkey, who told us that there are three ways to resolve our differences. One way is by diplomacy, the other way is by international courts and the third way - guess who it is - they get to understand our islands. It's not make news. It's the reality. I don't know if you heard. It was said in the House of Turkey. This is their answer for the hospitality we offered them. For the bill, I'm placed. I am simply saying the conclusion of Golden Dawn: this particular company is required, since it will be a limited company - space company, tell it, as you wish, it is an anonymous company - our country needs it, but we do not trust you to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u466	Thank you. Mr. Synthrakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u467	Thank you, Mr President. We don't have anything special to say about the bill. I think we've exhausted all the margins. It seemed, however, that, apart from any disagreement, controversy, krone between SYRIZA, New Democracy, PASOK, etc., regardless of whether or not this draft law is adopted, I think there is a full agreement. Disputes are on individual secondary, three-way issues, on legislative issues, etc. It is also a sign, to say, of a strategy of conscientiousness still in the case of space, because someone, by reading and dealing much more with the issues of European space policy - we as the Communist Party of Greece are following them - can indeed draw valuable conclusions on the single strategy of neoliberal parties, supposedly left-wing social democrats, which are on a common path, in a common direction. I have nothing more to say. I will go directly to the amendments. I would like to say first of all that it is not 20 amendments. It has at least two multimodalities that, if you sum up these two multimodalities, make you twenty more. That's right. In other words, we have found the Pope now to pass a few dozen amendments, not to bury belligers. The attempt at an amendment to the strike has failed, and it tells you that it is an opportunity to put here and what it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u468	The strikes aren't mine.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u469	In relation to the amendment by the Ministry of the Environment, in relation to the PSO electricity sector, the Minister tried to pass it on to the rest, just like the other political forces, but actually what he does? He's doing a redistribution of the OHS staircases. There is no substantial reduction in the cost of electricity for the people's family, and this is what the government wants to show as a philosophical measure. What's he doing? It's just a different redistribution. For the large mass of popular households under 1600 kWh the difference is lean and non-calculable. It's under the euro. What's the big deal? It is the ejection for those who have night current, to whom it has fled a lot of people because of the crisis. The last and most important is the one referred to in Article 36(2) of the Treaty. In the event of a deficit or surplus, the fees shall be adjusted following the RAE's recommendations. And since they are usually deficits, the adjustment of charges will go upwards, i.e. increase. So social justice is not the redistribution from one category to another, but the safeguarding of the people's expanded energy needs at a time when, while our country has so much energy reserves, it is poor in energy policy. With regard to Amendment No 1882 on immigration policy, it is the multiplier of the state of procurement by way of derogation from the normal procedure, the multitude of time extending administrative support from the Ministry of Interior to the newly established Ministry of Immigration Policy, which is no longer a new establishment, as it has been more than a year now. As far as the extension of the regime of secondments or recruitment of personnel with fixed-term contracts is concerned, the refugee - immigration problem, due to the preservation and increase of the causes that create it, namely the European Union's policy that captures refugees and immigrants in Greece - and at the same time SYRIZA and New Democracy are being fought, while they have agreed on the common European policy on refugee and migration and NATO's presence in the Aegean - but also because of the country's geographical position, it is not temporary and exceptional. That is why we need stable and permanent staff in a number of positions. We are also firmly opposed to the delegation of work on the management of the problem in the handling of asylum applications to European Union staff. In relation to Amendment No 1389 concerning the extension of ancillary staff contracts by military hospitals, we were not covered by the explanation given by Mr Vitsas that he would extend twenty-three contracts and sixteen other contracts, while, he said, twenty-two will have a new contract. At least it was a little enigmatic the way he mentioned this, because the needs of the military hospitals for these specific specialties of thirty-nine military doctors exist. So the convention had to be renewed for all thirty-nine. Of course, we raise the question of the permanentisation of all workers who are part-time in order to be fully and exclusively excluded. In relation to the'multi-amendment', with a general number of 1390 of the Ministry of the Interior, the first article - let me say this - on civil protection will say 'yes'. It concerns the 100 instalments due to the municipalities which ended at the end of November. As regards the next article - it is an organisational issue - we will say 'the present'. In the article on the restructuring of the NGO, we disagreed with the provision of 4071 of 2012 and we will vote "the present". In the article on town planning, we will vote 'against', because the status of subsistence of town planning services is in fact extended and the status of work is being borne by officials. With regard to the extension of the transfer of pupils, we will vote 'yes'. In relation to the amendment on retired people, we will also vote 'yes'. In the'multi-amendment' of the General Number 1395 of the Ministry of Health we have to say that in the first article on deadline extensions, we will vote'residences'. We agree with this extension of funding for the payroll of staff and the school's operating expenses. We will not agree with the question of school self-sufficiency. We have expressed reservations about both the administrative and the economic part, where the concept of self-sufficiency may lead to self-financing, which in practice means tuition for those who follow it, but also other business-type activities. On this basis, i.e. the payroll of staff and the provision of operating expenses, we will say 'yes'. In relation to the geographical limits of the Health Regions Administrations by the end of 2018, the problem, in our opinion, is not the geographic boundaries of the IPAs, but the given anti-popular health policy of the Government, cuts and caps in benefits, increasing patient payments, deficiencies in public infrastructure and their under-supply. Also, as regards the National Central Health Procurement Authority and the extension of its mandate until 31 May 2018, the problem is the cuts from the State Budget that negatively affect the equipment of public health units and exacerbate deficiencies. We are voting 'at present'. In relation to ESS doctors and the right to claim a different position, we also vote 'in favour', although the problem is - we repeat - that no recruitment is possible to cover all needs. There are other issues. I don't have time to mention everything. As far as it relates to inspectors and assistant NSA inspectors, we will say "residents". With regard to Amendment No 1396, which deals with the regulation of personnel in a firehouse and the stay in the service of the Fire Corps for two years, we will not agree. We shall vote against this amendment for this reason: we cannot agree to the extension of working life - that is where this leads to the extension of working life - even if workers are calling for this. Because of the crisis, he tells you, "I'll go to the service, that's where I'll make more money than if I'm in retirement." [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. So the amendment increases the age limits. The JRC is talking about reducing the age limits, especially in firefighters, who are sixty years old and are sending them out fires. The same applies to the amendment with a general number of 1401 concerning the EDPS, where the age limits are also increased, when the pension issue comes to sixty-seven years. It opens here, as in the Firefighting and Army, the "cheese in the light" for retired people to return to service. I will leave the other part concerning this amendment. We shall be voting in the vote. Finally, the parliamentary amendment will be voted against. It is an amendment by the SYRIZA Members concerning the amendment of the Statute for a non-profit company. It is about social cooperatives. It is an amendment to keep business cultures in municipalities and regions and to exploit them along the way as tools to promote entrepreneurship on the part of local government. On the other hand, all these services relating to the care of the elderly, child care, AMEA, chronic suffering, etc., should have gone under the sole responsibility of the state, with the subsidiary support of the municipalities and the brave, of course, funding. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u470	Thank you. Mr. Lazarides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u471	Thank you, Mr President. And what we didn't hear again. Of course, we have heard about the amendments. We talked about them this morning. There are many amendments. But, as I said in the morning, the amendments come to settle loose ends and mistakes of the past. Why, you see, we cannot forget the legislative acts that the Samara - Venizelos government was enacting. We can't forget the bills where a bill was an article with over five hundred pages and had in it everything, everything that was in place, what we say "All has is bashes". And then, over time, citizens and services, and so forth, found the terrible mistakes that existed within. I mentioned some examples this morning. I said that I personally brought an amendment for the schools from the point of view of the Greeks. A provision for schools had been passed, where they gave the municipalities land to do schools. And they set the five-year time limit. In other words, within five years, the municipality had to find the resources, make the plans, build the school, equip the school and operate it. If that's possible! I'm a mechanic. That's impossible. It cannot be done under any circumstances. The five years have passed unrealisticly and the municipalities have risked losing schools. He went to the TIAD and started asking the schools - the land, that is, not the schools - so that the municipalities were afraid. And they were rightly scared. Some mayors came, they found me, and we said we'd look to solve it. We have brought this amendment and, for five years, it has done so. And we took care of it. You know who voted against this amendment, because I forgot this morning to mention it? The New Democracy, the Golden Dawn and the JRC. These three parties voted against this amendment, which saved land and can now be made by the municipalities of schools. A spokesman from New Democracy made some references to the past, etc. It is good not to make many references to the past, because the country's debt brought it to 120%. Let us not forget that agriculture from 23% in 1981 delivered it to 3% in December 2014. I say these to remember both numbers and absolute sizes. It is not just that at that time agriculture was 23%! In 1981 agriculture accounted for 10.5 billion in the country's GDP. And in December 2014, when they downloaded it to 3%, agriculture paid about 5 billion. That was the disaster! Let us not go ahead with the deindustrialisation of the country and the destruction of the productive fabric. We live on Macedonia. They sent "BIOHALKO" abroad. "BIOHALCO", you know, is 7% of the country's total exports. And yet, he has made a tax seat abroad. They were in their own period. They were subsidising the vines. They were subsidising farmers to squeeze out vines, to take out tobacco, to stop tobacco production. And move the finger for economic policy! You know what else? In Syria, during the five years of the war, GDP fell by 28% while the country's GDP fell by these two parties, PASOK and New Democracy. And now they're asking for people to trust them again to save the country! Of course, how can people trust them? Do we forget the two "Zapipia" and the eighteen points? They didn't call them? And then they said, "No man sinned." They also say that if 2014 were to stay a little longer, they would get us out of the crisis. Eventually, everything's almost there. As long as they have the steering wheel in their hands, they fall on the rocks. Rock for rock don't let go! But it was almost! If they kept the steering wheel a little bit longer, they'd get out. Except the car or the ship - if you want - stopped. No more goin' in their hands. I've got some evidence here. It's an IME-GEE survey for 2014, where they said they'd get the country out of the crisis. It says that almost two thirds of small and micro-enterprises remain in a decayed orbit without any prospect of recovery. For the first half of 2014, the valuation remains negative, as 65% of enterprises said their situation deteriorated. Otherwise from 2014 they would get the country out of the crisis! In more detail, almost two out of three companies see a 65% reduction in demand by 64.5% and 68% orders. How would they get the country out of the crisis? The fall of the tick in 2014 reached 20%. "The overall drop in the turnover since the start of the crisis reached 75%. As regards the packages: In comparison with February 2014, forecasts for the second half deteriorate significantly. 45% minus 35.5%. What else can we read? It also says that three out of ten households say they live below the poverty line. 94% of households experienced a significant reduction in incomes following the outbreak of the crisis. 47% of the population stated that family income is not sufficient to meet the needs. Let's not go on. In fact, the evidence is apostostic for those who claim that if they stayed a little longer in 2014, something would change. They wouldn't change anything. They would complete the country's destruction. Unlike this government, where beyond the economic performance recognised by all foreigners - in fact, most of them are their friends and recognize the performance of this government - we recently had the last few days. And a record breaks down from an exit. On the previous exit, a record of a decade was dropped, on the last exit, a record of eleven years, where interest rates with the interest rates of 2006 can be compared. Isn't that a success? This is a major success, because there was an exchange of bonds, the so-called swaps to Greek, with which we secured an indirect reduction in the country's debt, because we reduced the interest rates from bonds already in existence in our country. You see that both the international press and all the houses are talking exactly about the country's positive course in the economy. Now, as far as the amendments, which they are commenting negatively, neither New Democracy nor the PASOK were put in place. I did not hear them talk about an amendment. What amendment are they opposed to? The one about the re-engineers? They didn't tell us. Are they against it? But does this amendment not take care of a loose end? Clearly, it settles a loose end and an injustice. Who else? What is it about hiring ancillary personnel to military hospitals and extending the mandate of existing staff, staff already serving? So, people leaving hospitals? In any case, I think a little seriousness and a more fertile opposition and criticism will benefit the parties themselves, but also the country itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u472	Mr. Saridis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u473	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let us make something clear. Political argument: "Others did worse, so we are on the right track" does not exist. It's a political excuse, no. A political argument that most of the amendments concern extensions, so the evaluation time is reduced, studying from the standpoint of Anti-Population, still does not exist. Whether Opposition votes positively in one, two, three amendments does not legalize the coup d'état to bring them twenty-two and to run counter to the corridors to be able to catch up to the spirit of the legislator, to judge this amendment. It's a bad legacy. But let us stay on this, that we are still legislating badly, let us be sure of the government and see how we can be better and not to squash others. You're cutting them off their performances, and you're losing them. The score says '33-23'. It's not wise to see the present, looking for excuses in the past. It's a huge mountain in the past, tsunami. Let it go. Conduct the country. It's wise to see the future. Do not repeat bad practices, lack of organisation, lack of planning. That's what you should do. But you don't. I'm so sorry. Regarding Amendment 1374, 'Greek Defence Systems', despite the fact that we are coming to legislate for a period of one year, we consider it important to continue the company's proper functioning because of its important role in defence of the country. We shall vote 'yes'. For Amendment 1375, ‘Introducing supplementary arrangements concerning the operation of the computer system, a citizens' register’, the system could obviously not be put into operation within the planned timeframe. We are concerned with giving explicit authorisation to the Minister of the Interior to define a set of operating details of the system. For the sake of legal certainty, we consider the provision for a valid award by the Registry of Manuscript Prefectures to be reasonable, which is why we shall vote 'yes'. For Amendment No 1376, for the extension of PPC and wind parks, I will not comment. We shall vote 'yes'. For Amendment No 1377, we consider that care should be taken to facilitate the development of investment data. Only for that purpose will we vote 'yes'. For Amendment No 1382, 'Migration Ministry', the proposed amendment once again demonstrates the duplication in the planning and implementation of our immigration policy, a particularly important pillar in the light of the existing problems. The Ministry of Migration Policy has not yet found its step. I think you understand that, too. It cannot calculate its needs in the medium term to meet basic needs, this while winter is here and there are too many problems, too many needs and there are still immigrants sleeping out at polar temperatures and under these unfavorable living conditions. However, the issue is important. It concerns a particularly vulnerable part of people living in our country, the migrants, and the potential inability of the Ministry of Migration Policy should not have an impact on the daily lives of these people. We are voting 'yes'. As far as Amendment No 138 is concerned, the reason for this proposed extension is that the time period is not sufficient to issue the MCAs. First of all, we disagree with the practice of CFDs that regulate key functions of a law. These issues should be dealt with in a formal way. A minister should not be overpowered to define even the terms and conditions for the payment of the allowance. Furthermore, the amendment is yet another example of the curiosity with which the government is dealing with the legislative issues. We understand, of course, that it concerns a particular category of our fellow citizens who risk their lives every day and the least one could do for them is to give them this important disability and risk benefit in good time, respectively. 'yes', then, to that too. Amendment No 1384 relates essentially to Law 4487 on electronic advertising and regulates the direct pricing of media advertised advertising. The government, even here, is once again delaying the implementation of this system. The only thing the Minister knows about is why. We cannot know that. We will be presenting this amendment. In Amendment No 1385, on the one hand, on the one-off allowance, what is described in the justification is not details, so that we do not know about this issue we are being asked to discuss. Obviously we share the difficulties faced by our most afflicted fellow citizens and the central importance of addressing the energy needs of the lower incomes of society. 'yes' to her, too. Amendment No 1387 on the electronic ticket and the fan card gives an extension. It turns out - as we have said and become tiring - that the government's sluggishness to keep the planned timetables for such an important issue. We hope that this time the system will be implemented in time because of the extension that this House will give and fully comply with the relevant opinion of the principle of the protection of personal data. In that sense, we say 'yes'. With regard to Amendment No 1388, we reiterate for once our criticism of the lack of rational planning and a long-term strategy by the present government which always runs at the last minute to extend the time limits and timetables, due to lack of preparation, that is why. Given our environmental concerns, therefore, we consider it important to speed up this process to help build up a new recycling culture. We say'residents' in this amendment. As far as the amendment to the military hospitals is concerned, we are in agreement. We are voting 'yes'. In its amendment of 1390, which contains four articles, I do not want to extend to the four articles to which we agree. But what I would like to say is our discontent, because in an amendment, different issues are dealt with, you know, which require different approaches. We happened to agree on these approaches. We could not agree and force us not to vote on the amendment for just one article. In the amendment by the Ministry of Interior, on 1391, we say 'yes'. With regard to Amendment 1394, it is noted that this deadline has already been extended three times since the initial projected date: 13-12-2013, 31-12-2015, 31-12-2016 and 31-12-2017, while workers' contracts in relation to fixed-term private-law work are also extended. In this amendment we say 'yes'. As regards the amendment by the Ministry of Health, 1395, we say 'no'. We have serious doubts as to whether they are photographic or voting arrangements. In Amendment No 1396 by the Ministry of Interior we say'residences'. The Centro Association first does not agree with extensions of the possibility of staying in the service. Apart from that, budget expenditure is also being caused. In 1397 we say 'yes', despite reservations, in order to facilitate the operation of the ECA, in order not to cause chaos. And at 1401, we say 'no', because it is a burden on the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u474	Thank you, Mr Saridis. Mr. Amyras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u475	I have nothing to supplement, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u476	Thank you. So the process has matured so that we can proceed to the vote within a short time. Ladies and gentlemen, the alleged seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u477	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned on a draft by the Ministry of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information: "Authorisation of Space Activities - Registration in the National Register of Space Objects - Establishment of the Greek Space Organisation and other provisions". Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u478	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u479	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u480	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u481	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u482	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u483	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u484	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u485	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u486	Consequently, the bill of the Ministry of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information: "Authorisation of Space Activities - Registration in the National Register of Space Objects - Establishment of the Greek Space Organisation and other provisions" was accepted in principle by a majority. We are entering the vote on articles and amendments and they will be voted on separately. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u487	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u488	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u489	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u490	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u491	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u492	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u493	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u494	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u495	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Can Article 2, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u496	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u497	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u498	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u499	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u500	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u501	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u502	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u503	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u504	Article 2 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Can Article 3, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u505	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u506	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u507	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u508	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u509	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u510	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u511	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u512	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u513	Article 3 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 4 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u514	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u515	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u516	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u517	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u518	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u519	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u520	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u521	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u522	Article 4 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 5 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u523	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u524	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u525	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u526	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u527	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u528	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u529	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u530	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u531	Article 5 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u532	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u533	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u534	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u535	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u536	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u537	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u538	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u539	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u540	Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 7 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u541	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u542	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u543	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u544	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u545	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u546	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u547	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u548	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u549	Article 7 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Article 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u550	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u551	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u552	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u553	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u554	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u555	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u556	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u557	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u558	Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 9 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u559	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u560	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u561	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u562	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u563	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u564	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u565	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u566	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u567	Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u568	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u569	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u570	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u571	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u572	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u573	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u574	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u575	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u576	Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 11 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u577	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u578	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u579	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u580	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u581	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u582	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u583	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u584	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u585	Article 11 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u586	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u587	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u588	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u589	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u590	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u591	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u592	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u593	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u594	Article 12 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 13 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u595	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u596	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u597	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u598	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u599	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u600	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u601	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u602	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u603	Article 13 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 14 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u604	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u605	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u606	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u607	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u608	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u609	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u610	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u611	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u612	Article 14 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 15 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u613	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u614	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u615	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u616	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u617	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u618	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u619	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u620	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u621	Article 15 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 16 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u622	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u623	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u624	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u625	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u626	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u627	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u628	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u629	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u630	Article 16 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 17 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u631	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u632	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u633	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u634	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u635	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u636	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u637	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u638	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u639	Article 17 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 18 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u640	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u641	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u642	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u643	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u644	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u645	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u646	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u647	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u648	Article 18 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 19 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u649	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u650	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u651	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u652	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u653	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u654	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u655	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u656	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u657	Article 19 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 20 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u658	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u659	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u660	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u661	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u662	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u663	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u664	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u665	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u666	Article 20 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 21 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u667	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u668	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u669	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u670	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u671	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u672	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u673	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u674	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u675	Article 21 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 22 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u676	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u677	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u678	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u679	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u680	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u681	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u682	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u683	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u684	Article 22 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 23 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u685	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u686	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u687	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u688	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u689	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u690	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u691	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u692	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u693	Article 23 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 24 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u694	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u695	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u696	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u697	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u698	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u699	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u700	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u701	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u702	Article 24 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 25 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u703	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u704	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u705	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u706	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u707	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u708	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u709	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u710	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u711	Article 25 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 26 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u712	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u713	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u714	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u715	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u716	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u717	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u718	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u719	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u720	Article 26 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 27 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u721	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u722	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u723	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u724	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u725	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u726	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u727	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u728	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u729	Article 27 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 28 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u730	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u731	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u732	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u733	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u734	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u735	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u736	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u737	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u738	Article 28 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 29 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u739	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u740	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u741	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u742	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u743	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u744	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u745	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u746	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u747	Article 29 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 30 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u748	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u749	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u750	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u751	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u752	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u753	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u754	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u755	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u756	Article 30 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept the amendment with a general number of 1376 and a special number of 25?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u757	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u758	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u759	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u760	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u761	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u762	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u763	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u764	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u765	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1376 and a special 25 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment with a general number of 1377 and a special number of 26?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u766	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u767	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u768	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u769	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u770	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u771	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u772	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u773	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u774	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1377 and a special 26 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment with a general number of 1382 and a special number of 27?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u775	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u776	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u777	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u778	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u779	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u780	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u781	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u782	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u783	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1382 and a special 27 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number of 1383 and a special number of 28?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u784	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u785	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u786	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u787	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u788	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u789	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u790	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u791	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u792	The amendment, by a general number 1383 and a special 28, was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment with a general number of 1384 and a special number of 29?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u793	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u794	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u795	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u796	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u797	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u798	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u799	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u800	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u801	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1384 and a special 29 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number of 1385 and a specialist of 30?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u802	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u803	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u804	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u805	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u806	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u807	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u808	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u809	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u810	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1385 and a specialist of 30 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number of 1387 and a special number of 31 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u811	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u812	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u813	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u814	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u815	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u816	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u817	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u818	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u819	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1387 and a special 31 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment with a general number of 1388 and a special number of 32 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u820	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u821	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u822	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u823	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u824	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u825	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u826	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u827	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u828	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1388 and a special 32 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number of 1389 and a special number of 33 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u829	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u830	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u831	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u832	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u833	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u834	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u835	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u836	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u837	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1389 and a special 33 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment by a general number of 1390 and a special number 34, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u838	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u839	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u840	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u841	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u842	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u843	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u844	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u845	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u846	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1390 and a special 34 was accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number of 1391 and a special number of 35?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u847	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u848	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u849	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u850	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u851	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u852	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u853	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u854	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u855	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1391 and a special 35 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number of 1392 and a special number of 36?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u856	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u857	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u858	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u859	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u860	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u861	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u862	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u863	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u864	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1392 and a special 36 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment with a general number of 1394 and a special number of 38 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u865	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u866	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u867	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u868	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u869	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u870	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u871	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u872	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u873	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1394 and a special 38 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number of 1395 and a special number of 39?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u874	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u875	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u876	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u877	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u878	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u879	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u880	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u881	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u882	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1395 and a special 39 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment with a general number of 1396 and a special number of 40?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u883	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u884	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u885	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u886	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u887	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u888	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u889	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u890	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u891	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1396 and a specialist of 40 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number of 1397 and a special number 41 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u892	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u893	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u894	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u895	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u896	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u897	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u898	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u899	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u900	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1397 and a special 41 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment with a general number of 1401 and a special number of 42?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u901	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u902	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u903	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u904	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u905	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u906	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u907	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u908	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u909	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1401 and a special 42 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 1409 and a special figure 44 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u910	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u911	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u912	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u913	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u914	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u915	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u916	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u917	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u918	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1409 and a special 44 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 1406 and a special number 43 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u919	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u920	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u921	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u922	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u923	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u924	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u925	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u926	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u927	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1406 and a special 43 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u928	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u929	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u930	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u931	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u932	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u933	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u934	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u935	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u936	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information: "Authorisation of Space Activities - Registration in the National Register of Space Objects - Establishment of the Hellenic Space Organisation and other provisions" was accepted in principle and on articles. We move on to vote on the bill and on the whole. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u937	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u938	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u939	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u940	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u941	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u942	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u943	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u944	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u945	Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information: "Authorisation of Space Activities - Registration in the National Register of Space Objects - Establishment of the Hellenic Space Organisation and other provisions" was accepted by a majority, in the first instance, of articles and all of them and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u946	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u947	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-20-S1-commons.u948	With the consent of the House at 20.07; the sitting for tomorrow, Thursday 21 December 2017 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's work: a) parliamentary scrutiny: topical and urgent debate; b) legislative work: only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law: "Training measures for persons exempted from penalty due to mental or mental disorder and other provisions".
