ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-22-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before entering the topical and urgent debate, however, I have some communications to make to this House. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform you that, with the decision of the President of Parliament, the Intergroup Parliamentary Committee on Population was set up with the decision of 22 May 2017. This decision has been posted to Parliament's Transparency and will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting. [[The abovementioned Decision reads as follows:]] Changing p. To enter page 3-4 Changing p.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-22-S1-commons.u2	I also have the honour to announce to the House that the Ministers of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Home, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Economic and Administrative Reconstruction, the Deputy Ministers of Economy and Development, Labour, Social Security and Economics, as well as the Deputy Ministers of Education, Research and Religious Affairs and Finance submitted a draft law on 19-5-2017: "Measures to speed up the government's work on education". The above draft law has been classified by the Government as urgent. Finally, the Standing Committee on Social Affairs and the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs submit their report to the proposal for a law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity: 'Guaranteed social income - strengthening social protection and integration'. We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS We will begin with the third with number 807/8-5-2017, a topical question by MP Lassithi of New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Placiotakis to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the total weakening of the Hellenic Register. Mr. Placiotakis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-22-S1-commons.u3	Minister, I have heard you many times over the last time talking about your priorities for strengthening the competitiveness of Greek shipping. Apart from the general and general references and your statements that Greek shipowners are willing to contribute to the design of your Ministry, the evidence is disgusting to you. And they deny you the evidence because, according to the Greek Committee on Maritime Cooperation in London - the well-known London Committee - for the first time after many years the number of Greek vessels, namely ships flying the flag of Greece, has fallen into the third place. In the first place is the register of the Marshall Islands with seven hundred ninety one ships - and about 19% of the total Greek merchant fleet - seven hundred seventy five of Liberia and seven hundred forty-seven of Greece. It is also noteworthy that, according to the information of the United Nations Committee of Trade and Development, the United Nations Commission on Trade and Competitiveness, while the Greek merchant fleet from 2014 to 2016 is growing by about 3.06%, the Greek register is retreating. This is also certified by the data of the Greek Maritime Cooperation Committee of London, which, on 1 March 2017, the Greek fleet, i.e. vessels flying the flag of Greece, is less than sixty-two ships. Also, in relation to competitive registers, although many and friendly efforts have been made towards faster administrative support for the Greek register, there are important bureaucratic procedures. Competitive registers provide more information, for example on ships, which are manufactured in the yards abroad, in the direction of more information, to the shipyards, but also to the classification societies. So, on this basis, Minister, and precisely because we realise that there is no strategy on this issue, I would like to ask you this. First: What actions are you going to take in the next time, so that you can make the Greek flag more competitive and attractive? Another question is: What are you going to do, so that there is a substantial modernisation of the Greek maritime administration, away from institutional experimentation, which we have experienced in the past and which have been unnecessarily and inappropriate, and ultimately, how many positions of Greek seafarers have been lost after the reduction of the registrations between 2015 and 2016 and how do you intend to reverse this situation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-22-S1-commons.u4	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-22-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. This is an interesting initiative by my colleague, because there is a debate in the Greek Parliament on a very important issue relating to shipping, which I would venture to say, Mr President, that over the years, the conscience and priorities of the political system have been somewhat on the sidelines. This is illustrated by the logic that had been applied over the years in the maritime sector. When the late Constantine Karamanlis, Mr. President, laid the law for shipping under the Constitution, the Greek seafarers were a hundred and fifty thousand. When SYRIZA came to power, Mr. President, we found it to be six thousand in the seaport. I imagine that SYRIZA has not been ruling over all these years, to have the responsibility of this rapid reduction in the staffing capacity, which has Greek origin in the seagoing shipping. The second is that all governments made various efforts to bring Greeks to shipping. They have reduced the compositions ten times, Mr President. The last reduction was made in 2005, Mr. Colleague, and I believe that the Minister at the time was able to do so by believing in the promises that ships will come to the Greek flag. This situation, you know very well that it is going on to date and you know that this is a more general problem. It is not Greece's problem, it is a problem for many European countries. Recently, I was in Hanover, at a globe conference on shipping. Mrs. Merkel was here too. If you read her speech, she addressed the German shipowners, telling them that they cannot take their ships from the German flag and take them to flags of convenience. This is a difficult reality, which we should see how we deal with. Despite these difficulties - and I acknowledge that over the years we have had a reduction in the flag number - we have to tell you that we have something else. We have an increase in capacity. You know, ships pay tonnage tax. So we have a counterbalance for that fact you're saying. However, because you have asked a question - and I do not want to avoid responding - how many seamen have lost their jobs from this, I would like to tell you that no one has lost their job, because you know very well, Mr Colleague, that the captains, i.e. the navy officers, and the Greek engineers, are sought. Shipowners fight and they say attributes: "We steal the captain of each other." Here, then, is an issue we need to discuss, because in recent years - perhaps even under pressure from the Memorandum of Understanding - the two hundred and eighty permanent positions in education academies have become eighty. Do you understand what that means? Do you understand what deterioration this is in the field of education in this area? This is where we've been alerted. We have started a very important effort. But even in the area you are talking about, we have taken very important steps in consultation with all these institutions in the area. We have reduced the time of issuing company installation permits. Until now, until a year ago, three ministers had to sign. Now only the Minister of Shipping signs. We've reduced it considerably. We have now introduced an electronic submission of a consolidated request for data on the establishment of companies. We are therefore trying in every way to create the best possible conditions for the Greek flag to become attractive. But we must stress that the Greek flag remains on the "white list" of the Paris Memorandum and is considered one of the most quality flags in the world. Mr President, that is what I wanted to say. I'll tell the rest in my denture.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-22-S1-commons.u6	Here you go, Mr. Placiotakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-22-S1-commons.u7	Minister, I admittedly expected to hear other things from your answer. I would like you to be much more specific. I think you remain faithful to SYRIZA's tactics and policy, which is summarized in 'other words to be loved'. I have provided you with concrete information both on the reduction of the Greek register and on the increase of the Greek fleet, while reducing the Greek register. I am also going to give you another undeniable element, which is due mainly to your own policy of limiting capital, the known capital control. The shipping currency was reduced in 2014 from EUR 13 billion to just EUR 7,800,000 in 2016. This is your achievement, in the logic of capital control, i.e. the closure of banks. But, Minister, I would like to ask you another question, because it seems that I have not convinced you of the information I have given you. You are well aware that since 2020, according to the International Maritime Organisation, we will change the mixture of maritime fuel, i.e. we will have low sulphur content of 0.5% in all maritime transport, except for those countries which already apply with a sulphur content of 0,1%. These are the Baltic countries, the North Sea, the east and west coasts of the United States and Canada and the Caribbean region of the United States. You realise that according to these new environmental regulations, many ships in the decade to come will be withdrawn from 2020 to 2030. So you realise that the challenges are ahead of us. If we do not take appropriate measures in time to approach ships in the national register, this will have negative consequences for both the national economy and for employment and for the paramilitary activities and, of course, for our commercial balance, where shipping is well aware that it contributes to 30%. Therefore, instead of your general references and your priorities, which no one can question as to their hierarchy, I think you should take specific initiatives in this direction. I think we have a lot to gain, so that the national register can also be supported, but above all we can support the Greek shipping that, in a period of great economic and social crisis, still retain our great comparative advantage of being first in the world. Of course, we should not lose this at all. It is therefore important that you now take these initiatives so that we really support the competitiveness of Greek shipping. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-22-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-22-S1-commons.u9	Mr President, the debate is indeed interesting. I would therefore like to say to my dear colleague that the policies that have been pursued so far have not been able to stem all these years from this phenomenon which has really led to Greek shipping, while it is the world's first, and we have more than four and a half thousand Greek ships on the flag to be fewer and fewer. This is a reality that we cannot avoid. Because he told me that I did not answer specifically, I ask him what he proposes to prevent this declining course. Can we still reduce the staff connection, Mr. Colleague, to the Greeks on board?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-22-S1-commons.u10	Rhetoric is the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-22-S1-commons.u11	Because the cost, Mr Colleague, is exactly what the ships are pushing, because Greek labour contracts are of a different nature, and it is another thing that people want to impose. You know what I'm talking about. From there on, what are the efforts we have made? I visited London, Mr. Comrade. He had to go to Greek Minister of Shipping - the Greek people heard it - to the Lloyd's in London twenty-seven years. This government, Mr Colleagues, has started an effort, precisely because the Greek shipping participation rate is high in the turnover of all these insurance companies, and we are in a dialogue to claim - and here too we want the support of counter-population - the seat of these companies after Brexit, at least the subsidiaries involved in shipping being in Greece. However, we are not only confined to this point. We have launched a very important attempt to release the shipyards. You know very well what has happened over the last ten years in the field of ship repair. In order to respond precisely to this challenge that you have mentioned quite rightly, the conversion of many ships to use green energy - because, after that date in 2020-2022, the ships in the ports of Europe must use precisely this energy that is more environmentally protected - we are trying to deal with the problems that have arisen from the wrong policies, which have effectively shut down the Scaramaga shipyard. We are trying and asking the COSCO, first and foremost, to implement its contractual obligations in the ship repair zone. So in September the eighty-thousand-ton tank will be here. And it is planned to find space for the tank of three hundred and fifty thousand tonnes. We are working with the European Union to find a way to liberate the large tank of the Scaramaga shipyard. And I must tell you that unfortunately I have information that there are also factors in Greece that do not want this. And there is a great effort to get the Elefsinas and Neorios shipyards activated more, because that is precisely why we want Greece to be ready to respond to this challenge. As we are working very much in the field of port industry. Mr. Comrade, the country had no record of the ports, the bays, the anchorages anywhere. That's the reality we've received. So today I invite you to come to the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy and to inform you of everything that has been done so far, in this very short time. We're moving on to the closter process. The country didn't have such a chance. Well, all this creates a mobility. And because you spoke of capital controls too, there is indeed a problem with capital controls and we are also trying to solve this. But we move on to two new initiatives: First, after 15 years of efforts there is a significant and substantial effort in cooperation with the Capital Market, the National Bank and the Stock Exchange, to issue a bond from Greek shipowners, to bring shipowners and shipowners here to the Greek Stock Exchange. And it's very important. Just like one other thing. In 2012, the law authorizing the Finance and Shipping Ministers to proceed with a joint ministerial decision in order to establish the possibility of leasing on both water and recreational boats was passed. And I guess you know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-22-S1-commons.u12	Yes, let's put a perfect one, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-22-S1-commons.u13	I'm closing, Mr. President. You know very well what the operators of this area say about the maritime ministry's initiatives, precisely because we want to facilitate the development of this sector through this process. I close, Mr President, by saying that the Ministry has drawn up a record with twelve specific objectives that start with education, the maritime repair zone, the cluster, seagoing shipping, coastal shipping, the island policy and the port industry, so that we can actually set targets in these areas. And because we realise that this is a matter of national importance, we have the political courage, as soon as we are ready to put this initiative, this account, in view of all the parties, to work together on this issue, and if we can - at last - exercise a national policy all together on this very crucial issue, because with such a policy we can really face the dangers, but also give even more impetus to this area, which Greece really takes the lead in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-22-S1-commons.u14	I am aware that they will not be discussed due to lack of responsibility or the sixth under number 825/9-5-2017 a topical question by the President of the Greek Communist Party, Emmanuel Synthraki, on the cancellation of the certificates of people with chronic disability from the Centres for the Certification of Disability (CEDEFOP). The Ministry responsible is the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity. Also, the first question with number 3826/1-32017 by MP Elias of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject "to shed plenty of light on the works and days of Mr. Kalogrica with his funding from the "Attica Bank" and to take up roadworks of the Patras - Pyrgos section, will not be discussed. Due to the blockade of the questioning Member, the ninth question under number 682/3-4-2017 will not be discussed in the second cycle of the MP Argolida of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Manatis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the activation of the decision on the pilot study of the Social Control Zone (Z.E.) The Argos. Also, due to the impossibility of the honourable Member, the second question, number 4605-29-3-2017, will not be discussed by MP Argolis of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Manatis, Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on the economic suffocation of public transport. Also, it will not be discussed due to the absence of the relevant foreign ministers, the eighth under number 698/5-2017, a topical question by the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Ioannis Sahinides to the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the "fast increase in unemployment in Kastoria on the Government of SYRIZA". Nor will the fifth be discussed under number 808/8-5-2017 the second time question of the second Athens Parliamentary II of the New Democracy, Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou to the Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the television signal in remote areas. Also, the alleged seeks a short-day absence permit abroad from 26 May to 27 May of this year. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-22-S1-commons.u15	The House therefore approved the requested permission. The fourth question will now be discussed under number 824/9-5-2017, topical question by the Member of the Lesvos Parliamentary Party of Greece Mr Stavros Tassos, on the cleaning of the Tsiknia, Mylopotamou and Gagadellis rivers in Lesvos. Mr. Tassos, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-22-S1-commons.u16	Minister, with the catastrophic flood on November 28, 2016, the bedrobes of the Tsiknia and Mylopotamos rivers suffered great catastrophes. Specifically, the Tsiknia River bed retreated, so that the adjacent property would suffer great damage and damage to plant and animal capital. For these losses, of course, farmers and farmers are still waiting for compensation. The farmers and farmers in the region are concerned, as if we do not take immediate measures to clean up the rivers, to strengthen the impurities and to open the estuary, there will be new damage and disasters in the case of other wateraches. It is also necessary to build a technical project and strengthen the impurities of the Gagadellis River, as is called the Bavarians, otherwise, since in any event the flow that destroys the rural network is making it impossible to move to the owners and herds of farmers and farmers. The question therefore is very specific, Minister, because the problem is very specific. What measures will the government take to make available all the necessary funds with an emergency grant from the state budget in order to clean up the rivers, strengthen the impurities and open up their estuaries, but also to build a technical project on the Gagadellis River?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-22-S1-commons.u17	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-22-S1-commons.u18	Mr Tassos, the truth is that it has been a phenomenon of particular tension in recent years and is more and more a reality, it is a fact. Also in several cases the country's infrastructure, anti-military projects, are hardened. The tightness of resources has left its print in all these areas. However, I think that, in the light of this reality and of the means available, we are trying as a government to coordinate the relevant services, to use what we have at our disposal and to respond in the best possible way to the needs and the issues you have raised. More specifically, in relation to the specific rivers Tsiknia, Mylopotamos and Gagadellis, after the strong flooding phenomenon of 30-11-2016, I have been informed that, for the region, the coordinating civil protection body at its meeting on 30-11-2016 decided to immediately restore the natural impurities. Also, by a document from the region of North Aegean, dated 11-5-2017, I have been informed that the natural tsiknia tsiknia tsikni have been fully restored. Procedures for the environmental licensing of projects relating to these rivers have also been initiated, and 130,000 credit has been provided for a study, which has been approved in accordance with No. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. On behalf of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, a study has been commissioned on the construction of water projects of the Lesvos Prefecture, a budget of EUR 3,305.397, which also covers the construction of an clay dam for the stream of Tsikni. I think that this project is intended to feed the city of Mytilini and cover the water supply needs, as well as Kalloni and Agia Paraskevi. Also, there have been records from the Ministry of Rural Development on the basis of the stadiums of the ELGA and some two hundred seventy declarations have been submitted. It has been notified to the affected producers and an amount of EUR 630 000 has been paid for losses of plant and livestock. About the Ministry of Interior, what I know of you is that the money intended to cover project and investment costs for 2016 for the Prefecture of Lesbos amount to EUR 2,017.230 and the exact same amount for 2017. Also, over this year, spending on theories of 150 thousand euros has been approved. Done at Brussels, 13 January. Also on 13 January to deal with water shortages of 300 thousand euros. The above two amounts have not been used up because the relevant documents have not been deposited by the municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-22-S1-commons.u19	Mr. Tassos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-22-S1-commons.u20	Minister, invoking the intense weather phenomena each time to justify the disasters caused, even by a little rainfall, are common. When the disasters occurred, I went to Lesvos several times, as I had to do, and I spoke to people, farmers. In seven years there have been three such flooding phenomena. It is a common phenomenon and a key reason why these floods occur in the Kalloni area, Agia Paraskevi and the wider area is that river estuaries are not cleaned up. River estuaries are not cleaned, and this leads, firstly, to these flooding phenomena and, secondly, to prevent enrichment and vagina with nutrients that the rivers bring, but also to enter the fish and to store their eggs so that they will then grow up and come out in the vagina. In other words, the catch bay should be enriched. In addition, you say that funds have been made available. But these funds don't seem to be catching any place. The rural network is in a terrible state. As far as compensation is concerned, only yesterday when I discussed with people to ask this question, I was told that they have not yet been compensated. They're still waiting for their compensation. They pay the ELGA, and if anyone doesn't pay, his debt goes to tax and is obliged to pay it. Farmers normally pay their contributions and do not take back the money they give to be compensated for. Leave what I used to hear about shipowners, who among the fifty-six tax exemptions also have free oil. Farmers don't have free oil. Shipowners are blackmailing to get even more privileges, while farmers - especially small and medium-sized ones - are in extinction, because that is what the common agricultural policy provides for. It is therefore urgent to take concrete measures to clean up the rivers, clean up the estuary and strengthen the impurities. It is not possible every time it rains a little further to have such phenomena and such catastrophes. Losses in sheep and crops were hundreds of herbal and livestock. We therefore expect specific answers and solutions from you to the specific problems that I have mentioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-22-S1-commons.u21	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-22-S1-commons.u22	I think, Mr Tassos, that you have not followed me, otherwise I do not understand what you said in your dentistry. I was quite specific about what has been given to affected producers and mentioned a specific amount of EUR 630,000. This is the briefing I have received from the ELGA. I don't know what kind of information you had and who told you, but I don't think the agencies and agencies are lying. It has been paid - and you know that - for this compensation to the insurance companies. If there's any other obligations, obviously they haven't gone with the money. I was quite clear in the studies that have been launched and exactly the sums that have been made available. Indeed, I mentioned to you some of these - particularly those relating to the interior ministry's accounts - that, while they have been approved since January, there has been no absorption. For river cleaning, there is a cohesiveness based on the institutional framework governing self-government, both on the part of the municipality and on the part of the region. From that point on, the two degrees of self-government must stand up so that there is cooperation and make clear who does what. In other words, this attitude is once again presented - and I am not saying it on this particular occasion, but I am making a general comment - that one of them is throwing them at another time, it must stop.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-22-S1-commons.u23	Are you telling us that?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-22-S1-commons.u24	(Minister of Interior): No, obviously you did not hear because you were on the phone. I say that the responsibility for the cleaning up of rivers lies with the municipality and the region, separately and jointly. So what we have and what we have is not infinite...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-22-S1-commons.u25	But it's your duty to solve this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-22-S1-commons.u26	(Minister of Interior): Wait a minute. We recognise that there are responsibilities which are exercised by the first and second levels of selfgovernment. The question is how to support them and not to restore them. The form of organization that is currently in our state and based on the degree of self-sufficiency of local government requires that some things be exercised on their behalf. I think that what we need is to make use of the resources we have at the right time, as soon as possible. In relation to your reference to Greek shipowners, you were affected by the previous question. I won't be tempted to comment on it. However, you were the ones who had the fun, you did it, your right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-22-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, too. It is known in this House that the first question under number 837-15-2017 is not discussed in the first cycle of the New Democracy MP Drama. Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister of Health, on the establishment of the Oncological Clinic at the General Hospital of Drama, due to the impediment of the relevant Minister. Nor will the third question be discussed under No 1775/6-12-2016 by the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Health, concerning the "difference of the Ministry of Health for the Zakynthos Hospital" due to the impediment of the relevant Minister. There will not be a debate on the seventh under number 723/11-4-2017 topical question by MP II Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Sakis Vardalis to the Minister of Health on the loss of life due to the tragic shortages in emergency medicine in the Regional Unit of Halkidiki, due to the impediment of the relevant Minister. The second question under number 826/9-5-2017 of the First Vice-President of the Parliament and Deputy Dodecanese of the Democratic Assent of the PASOK - DIMAR Mr Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Finance, on measures to strengthen the economy of the Dodecanese, due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Papanatsiou, which is outside Attica, will not be discussed. The third question will not be discussed under number 842/16-5-2017, the first question of the Member of Parliament's Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Stavros Tassos to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the serious problems of cleaning up at the premises of the Central Greek TEI in Psachna Evia, due to the obstruction of the Minister of Education, Research and Religion, Mr Gavroglou Also, we will not discuss the second question with number 827/11-5-2017, the second question by MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou, Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the arbitrary and illegal treatment of candidates from Partners of Educational Personnel (EPC) in the notices of the Greek Open University (EPC), due to the impediment of the Minister. Nor will the tenth question be discussed under number 643/21-3-2017, a topical question by the Member of Parliament, Aetolokarnania, the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the support and upgrading of the TEI Messologist. The eleventh time question of the second cycle under number 504/20-2-2017 of the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Papapas to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on "the fulfilment of the Order of the Nation", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. Also, due to the impediment of the Minister, the twelfth timely question of the second cycle, number 602/14-3-2017, by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis, to the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, will not be answered, with regard to the licenses of substitute teachers. Due to the impediment of the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Justice, Ephesis Ahtsioglou, there will not be a debate on the first question under number 838/15-2017 of the second cycle of the Member of the Magnesia Parliament, Mr Christos Boukorous to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the fight against undeclared work. The debate on the topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-22-S1-commons.u28	With the consent of the House at 18.46 a meeting on Thursday, May 25, 2017, at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's work: a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical and legislative debate, and b) legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
