ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS We shall begin with the first question under No 158/26-10-2017 - in accordance with Rule 129(2) and (3) and Rule 132(1) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure - by the President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis to the Prime Minister on the subject: 'Expression of crime and an increase in the phenomena of violence'. Let me remind you that speaking times in accordance with the new Rules of Procedure, as we said last Friday, are for the President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group ten minutes in the first time and five minutes in the second, and for the Prime Minister twenty minutes in the first time and ten minutes in the second. There is, obviously, relative flexibility in times too, so that there is a real debate. The floor is held by the Chief of Officer's Reconciliation and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u2	Mr Tsipras, I am pleased that you have chosen to answer my question today, because the last time I asked to speak on security matters, you have characterised this issue as an inappropriate one. I imagine that you will not be tempted today to change the subject of the debate unless you want to apologize for the cynical statement of your financial staff, that you consciously broke the middle class in taxes, that you are breaking up productive Greece, dismantling the workers, the free traders, the pensioners, the middle Greek family. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I hope you're not talking about forty-footers and other shit like that, because the world is suffering and not putting up with you anymore, Mr. Tsipras! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I now come to security issues. A few days ago your Governing Representative wondered: "But how is that possible?" - he told us - "...on the one hand, say "go" to the Greek Police and, on the other hand, raise the issue of the exacerbation of lawlessness and crime?" So let me explain it to you so that you understand it well. The Greek Police deserve congratulations, precisely because they are trying to respond, as they should, to a situation of violence and illegality, a wild and dangerous situation, which is the result of omissions and acts of your own policy, Mr Tsipras. Because the police know and can, and has skilled executives with good education and a sense of duty. The problem arises when your government does not let her do her job or when you promote policies that bind her hands. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Who opened the prison doors, Mr. Tsipras? I'll tell you. Your government has opened them up so the police can run the police then arrest those you're leaving free. Your law is also yours - one of the first laws that Mr Paraparapulos has passed - to abolish Type III prisons, concerning specific cases of prisoners, organised crime and terrorism. Mr Tsipras, there are high-security prisons in all, I repeat, in all European countries. However, you considered it appropriate to abolish them in Greece when you understood the authority. So what's going on? You don't know that? Today, in Greek prisons, there are coexistences and they are smiling at malicious, terrorist, other criminals with all that that implies. The godfathers, then, and the big heads of crime, operate undisturbed, making prisons in the administration of criminal groups, which, Mr. Tsipras, in Type III prisons would not be able to do. The murder of Zafiropoulou was organized in prison. Organized crime has its focus today on Korydallos. You don't know that, Mr. Tsipras? So you're gonna have to...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u3	...(not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u4	Quiet! Stop, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u5	Aren't you embarrassed? Be quiet, ma'am, and listen sometimes. So you should explain to us - and you, Mr. Tsipras, and all of you - why you brought this law. Could you do the favour of some of the prisoners who asked Mr. Lambrou, your partner, to do it because he was talking to you? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Do they keep you, Mr. Tsipras? Do they keep you? Do you owe them anything? Because the association of criminals and terrorists in prisons costs lives. It is a success of the Greek police to arrest Mr. Loukas Papademos' almost murderer. But I wonder who created the political climate that armed his hand? [[Protests from the wing of SYRIZA]] Who did extremes and miscellaneous opposition, building guilty for the memorial? Who equated violence and terrorism with the Memorandums? You did it from 2011 to 2015. Then you set fire to the country, to take power and then come to vote for new memos. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So arrest is a success of the police. And Mr. Papademos didn't lose his life. Your "success" - always in introductory form! - Mr. Tsipras, if he's convicted, he won't go to a high-security prison, as he should. It will go to a simple prison where it can normally be networked with other criminals, as is, unfortunately, the case today in most of the country's prisons. But take note, Mr Tsipras and gentlemen of SYRIZA: The arrest of this terrorist has been made on the basis of a piece of legislation that you personally have before and several of your party have fought, voted against, and some people are still asking to abolish. And if there were no such provision in the Criminal Code - in particular Article 187a - which allows - be careful! - the use of DNA as evidence, no arrest would have been made and this case could not be solved. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The police therefore have successes thanks to a legislative framework, which you have tried to change. Luckily, you didn't make it. But you managed to get the criminals out of the cells. And I'm talking about Friday's law on decongestion of prisons. You voted for him, despite the warnings of the legal world, the Association of Prosecutors that its arrangements are equivalent to the annulment of judgments. In fact, you have only begun to apply him forty-five days after his vote. The results seemed quickly. Almost two thousand inmates convicted of brutal felony acts, came out of prison. Many of them returned to the crime. Some people, unfortunately, have made more serious acts than those for which they were convicted. Mr. Tsipras, what do you have to say to the mother of the young jeweler in Thessaloniki, murdered by a drug dealer released by the law on Friday? What do you have to say to the restaurant's wife in Hydra, who murdered robbers who were released by the law of Friday? What do you have to tell the children of a seventy-year-old retired, murdered by a criminal who was released by the law of Friday? What do you have to tell the victims of the robber who scattered the horror in Hippel, Saint Panteleimon, Vineyards, robbing and tormenting the elderly, who was released by the Law of Friday? What do you have to tell the old lady that a few days ago they burned with iron criminals who had been liberated by the Law of Friday? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Do even now, Mr. Tsipras, your self-criticism. Change the Law of Friday. The release criteria must be strictened. And if anything, ask for an apology from the victims and their relatives. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece is a country where, unfortunately, lawlessness is constantly gaining ground with synergy or tolerance of the SYRIZA and ANEL government. The Greeks fear in their homes. Especially defenseless feel the older ones. We have sites that have become synonymous with crime. Exarches have become unbaptized. The Medium develops into an inhuman margin, where children’s souls are lost. But it's not just a common crime. I will come back to this later. We see it constantly expanding, what some people call 'political violence'. Universities are often transformed into an organized bully and infractional arena, those who burn trolleys in Patisia and always enter undisturbed at the Polytechnic School to hide. Panteion University professor saw his face become a poster. At the University of Macedonia, the dean fell victim to pre-conflicts within his own office and saw, above, slander him on the internet. At the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, the Republican Council was placed in a hostage for three hours. At the University of Athens the yard has been turned into a fairway, without anyone interfering. There are surnamed charges for drug trafficking in the environment at the University of Thessaloniki. You know, Mr. Tsipras, what was the answer to all this, Mr. Gavroglou? Setting up a fragile student movement, like the student's job is to mess with drug dealers! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] A few days ago at the University of Economics, the old ASE, a young man with disabilities was attacked because he went to an event that did not have the approval of the school's trumpets. They didn't even respect his disability. A few days later, some also published brochures and told him not to step back into school. Yesterday, at the same university, the dean issued a statement that the known - unknown - hit an administrative official. Did you do something about all this, Mr. Tsipras? Did you even take one initiative? Did a prosecutor come in? Did you make a public statement? Did you call the university community to intervene? So, what are you saying, so I can figure it out? That the police, who was able to arrest the twenty-nine-year-old man, can't identify and punish those who beat a student with a disability problem? Of course he can. You don't let them do it! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Do you have a hard time going through Ruvikon? I am referring to the well-known group that, in order to leave the House undisturbed, Mr. Voutsis himself made sure that he turned the police patrols into a taxi. But Ruvikon, yes, he's threatening, he's pulling. His leader posts undisturbed on Facebook. I would remind you that Ruvikon is an organization aimed at destroying the state. They say it clearly in their manifesto. I'll read it to remind you, Mr. Tsipras. "We seek..." - notice what Ruvik says - "the destruction of the state and its replacement as a manager of the public by a federation of self-managed foundation communities." [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I don't understand what that thing means, but what I understand...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u6	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u7	You know that very well. I'm sorry. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I'm sorry. You understand that, but the majority of society doesn't understand any of this. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] What she understands is that against her has an organization that undermines armed violence, but here and here in the benches behind me, they think that children are just doing revolutionary exercise. And all this while Athens is a defenseless city. A few weeks ago we had broken shops in Hermos. Three hopeful ones were taken to the hospital after a cold attack. Yesterday, again, there was a battle with molotovs in the center of Athens. Ten days ago they attacked molotovs and rocks at the Pefki Police Department. The service officer I spoke with is a young girl who had just graduated from school. They almost burned it alive, as alive burned by molotovs and Marfin's employees! In simple terms, Exarchies extract terrorism. And don't tell me again, Mr. Tsipras, about the peculiarity of the area. Tell me how neither you nor your ministers can go through this area. But how does your tolerance explain at the same time? The fact that almost every night in the center of Athens we have vandalism and episodes don't you see it? Mr. Tsipras, do you or don't you know that in Exarchia there are yachts with guns? Yes or no? Do you or do you not know that a part of the new terrorism has been unearthed by anti-semitists' circles? Do you or do you not know that there is a odour between the new terrorists and the criminals? Are you concerned about the constant attacks on PASOK offices in Charilaos Trikoupi? What do the cops say, Mr. Tsipras? Do not tell me that you have not heard it: 'They do not let us intervene'. The mandate of non-intervention, Mr Tsipras, is political and you have a full responsibility for this! Ladies and gentlemen, the security problem does not only concern very serious and unpleasant individual cases that I have mentioned. It's general. The statistics show that crime is growing. But that's a sense of society. Because we are a responsible party, and we do not make any extremisms, like some others when they were in the opposition, we will say good and wrong. Indeed, there has been a significant reduction in homicide, but it has started since 2010 and continued. So homicides have fallen almost halfway down. In most areas, however, the situation has deteriorated. Over the last two years the robberies, thefts, the burglaries in houses and shops, like theft wheelchairs, have increased. In fact, attempts - beware, attempts - to robbery and burglary have been multiplyed. And don't underestimate the attempt, because she too sows insecurity and terror, and no Greek should live with fear. Smuggling phenomena have also been launched with consequences for the operation of healthy stores and, of course, with a loss of revenue for the state. A total of about eight times in the country, while in Attica they tripled. Yesterday I was in Epirus and had the opportunity to speak with small villages at the border. What did they say? That they constantly fall victim to criminal organizations, gangs. They're crossing the border, they're stolen, and they're gone again. Haven't you heard of all this, Mr. Tsipras? The same is true, of course, in the centre of major cities. Walk a little in the center of Athens. At the entrance of almost every building you'll see a paper, which says the tenants lock their door after 10:00 at night, because there were cases of burglary. [[Noise in the Chamber]] For all this, Mr Tsipras, you have a responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u8	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u9	You're responsible, and I'll tell you why you're responsible. Because the coordinated anti-infringement operations in the ghettos of lawlessness were limited to the minimum. Because successful efforts to upgrade the Greek Police have been abandoned. Because the previous government's plan for pedestrian patrols was effectively canceled. Because there's been an abandonment of the neighborhood police officer. Why was the DELTA Group abolished on the basis of what? The youth of SYRIZA and Ruvikon. So, there's no immediate intervention team today, and recently there's been an interesting circular, which says the police only moves when it's absolutely necessary. Mr. Tsipras, I don't expect to hear much from you. I guess I expect to hear the same political insults and personal slanders. However, I will insist. You have an obligation to tell us today as Prime Minister not only what you are going to do but at last to tell us what you believe, because for years your party has been systematically mocking and at every opportunity the idea that in democracy violence is condemned wherever it comes from. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Your current ministers are the ones who came out on the channels, in the 'pre-Chinese' as opposition officials and justified misery. We lived trabukisms, insults, vulgarities, to which you were leading. You've been cultivating a bias against the police for years. When did you gather your members who were calling her in public? When did you get to meet cops on a rough shift? Do you want me to remind you what you yourself were saying a few years ago? Disarm the police and abolish the MATs. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I testify because we all have our story. [[At this point, President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Should the police disarm, Mr. Tsipras? And how would they make the arrests, which you are presenting today as a success? With water guns? With slings? Do you realize, even afterward, what have you said from time to time? May I remind you, Mr. Tsipras, that as a political leader you described MATs as 'important gangs'? Is it time for you to make it up to me even now? Is it time for you to apologize to those who were in the rookie cage who were attacked with rocket? Of the police that every night are being attacked with molotovs? From the kids of the MATs outside the PASOK office, who were shot with a kalashnikov? From the mothers, from the wives, from the siblings of all those who risk their lives every day? Apologise for your party officials calling them "pigs" and "killers" without ever denying them and never disapprove them, even one of them! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So admit, Mr Tsipras, even today, that everything you said was in the wrong direction. Recognize in political dignity or even - at last - that you have also been deceived in security matters. But ultimately, the issue is not your untrustworthyness. It's what your policy leaves behind. And today, unfortunately, the country is paying for the storms of the winds which you and your company have personally wasted all these years. And today, with your policy, Mr Tsipras, with your wrong decisions you are still taking - see: the abolition of Type III prisons, the 'Law of Friday', the abolition of the DELTA Group, the restriction of patrols, tolerance, verbal and real, to phenomena of violence - you are harming the sense of the security of citizens. And all this can't hide behind some police hits, which have become your repute. That is why I call on you, with the weight of responsibility that I myself feel as Chief of Staff, even now, Mr Tsipras, to recognise your mistakes and change policy. Because the interest of the ordinary citizen, who feels unprotected and unsafe today, is more important than your inner-party balances and your psychological disquiet. Support the Greek Police and leave the retired on her mission. Greece, Mr Tsipras, needs a serious security policy. You won't do what you need, because neither do you. However, we will do so, with the focus of the citizen, with full respect for his rights, quality of life and the right to property, with a mapping of crime by region, so that police action focuses on where there is a problem, with the introduction of police, pedestrian and on-board, night, with the strengthening of the DIAH Group and the activation of DELTA teams, with the strengthening of crime prevention and repression teams and, of course, with better infrastructures, with patrols that will not be decommissioned, as today, and with better equipment for men and women in police. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to close with this: in the case of New Democracy security is the right of every citizen, it is a prerequisite for freedom and democracy. We say 'no' to fear and lawlessness. The next government, the New Democracy government, will restore citizens' security. The police will return to the neighborhoods, the "law of Friday" will be abolished. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Universities won't be trumpets. No student, professor, and visitor will be under constant threat. Penalties will also be applied to those who are criminal, who suffer the consequences of their actions. There will be respect for everyone's rights and freedoms, but above all for the rights of citizens, who today feel defenceless. Safe, free, decent citizens in a safe and decent Greece! That is what we want, and that is what we will achieve, because we also deserve much better in the area of security. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u10	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the educational programme "Workery Democracy", organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty students and students and two educational attendants from the Moraite School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, I also have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, forty-seven students and students and two educational sessions from the 1st General School of Transformation. The House welcomes you. Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras has the floor for his prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u11	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Mitsotakis, this is the second time you've asked the Prime Minister a timely question while you're Chief of Officer County. Both times - randomly? - for the same thing. So last time, I told you that I do not consider safety to be too topical, because it is a time-consuming problem. You have dealt with this and started your speech, telling me not to tell you the same thing, that it is not timely. Well, I won't tell you the same thing. Do you know how timely this question you tabled today? It's the best question at the best Timing I could ever have, Mr. Mitsotakis! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] For for your bad luck - as the proverb says, God loves the thief, loves the housekeeper - you have tabled a timely question about lawlessness and the next day the suspect was arrested for the case of terror to the former Prime Minister, a few days later the alleged perpetrator of the murder of Zahiropoulou was arrested and a series of revelations relating to lawlessness and perhaps not make you feel very comfortable. So I could, Mr Mitsotakis, sit here and watch what you say without much to say. But, indeed, by listening to you, I wonder where this politician who was elected President of the Party is, and then hopefully he will transfer political life and political confrontation to the Centre. I see you and I hear you talk from this Step and when I turn my back on the other side, I say: who is at Stepma now? Is Kyriakos Mitsotakis or Adonis Georgiadis? No difference. The absolute adoption of a right-wing rhetoric of fear, which other parties of course have adopted in Europe and have gone well for their cubics. But they're right-wing parties. Select where do you want to take your party: to the center or to the far right? You know what, Mr. Mitsotakis? The reason you're doing this is because you're in panic. Panic isn't a good consultant. You are in panic, because you have put all the eggs in the same basket, that the country will be destroyed, that the government will fall, that the evaluations will not be closed, and today you are forced - I want to believe that many of the things you say do not believe - to adopt this extreme rhetoric, precisely because you are not at ease with reality. What reality? The fact that the country rediscovers its step, goes towards the end of a hard period of memorial and suffocating commission and comes out of the crisis in which you have led it - so that we do not forget - with the pillaging and bankruptcy that you have brought to the place. So you are not at ease, Mr Mitsotakis, because the third assessment will also be closed, despite your continued persistence in eschatological scenarios, and even without additional burdens. And it will soon be closed, which is evidenced by progress in the discussions, in the negotiation that is under way. You are not comfortable, because you and your supporters had invested in the opposite. Until first there were headlines for new measures coming. You are not at ease, because Greece for the third consecutive year achieves budgetary over-performance and is again within the targets and will be in 2018 as well. You are not comfortable because the year will close with the economy running at a rate of growth close to 2%, while in the years that you have ruled you had a recession of seven, nine, eleven units. Years over the year, a total of 25% of GDP was lost. You are not comfortable because the country has returned on much more favourable terms than the last time on the money markets. The international rating agencies are constantly increasing the position and prospects of the Greek economy. At the same time, Greek bonds' interest rates have been moving in a history low since 2009. You are not at ease, of course, because Greece is constantly stepping up its position in international developments, something which is generally recognised both in that it manages to leave behind a terrible crisis, but also in the country's decisive role as a factor of stability, security and cooperation in a wider region. You don't like all this. It does not suit you and you do not like the obvious, so that the country is in a period of dynamic recovery, because all you have in mind is your misfortune to return to the rule of the country. But when this misery ignores the reality and in the name of this evil twists everything, then we are not just talking about poorness, but about a selfishness that harms the country, because through the irresponsibility that characterizes your opposition trend, you are not attacking the government and SYRIZA, but you are directly attacking institutions and, indeed, those who preserve the security of the country. Last month, on the occasion of my meeting with President Trump in Washington, D.C., you got up - it was the rise of the two 24 hours, because then you 'pressed the island' - to upgrade the F-16. You, too, went out with your friendly literature and started talking about a scandal that you must bring here to the House, to apologize. You obviously didn't bring me in for that. For security, law and order you brought me, for you soon realized or someone whistled it for you that your story has no dragon. But you did not realize that the attack was not towards me and the government. The attack was against the leadership of the Armed Forces, which - I recall - since 2009 had recommended the upgrading of combat aircraft. On the basis of this proposal, then, we have proceeded and are negotiating for the best possible agreement. So since this issue has obviously been closed for you, you have come back today, with a new crescendo of impunity, and you are talking about generalised lawlessness, about chaos in the country, about the uprooting of crime, about the undisturbed action of all kinds of criminals. I'll answer your allegations in detail. But, before that, I have to tell you that you suffer again in the same force. Speaking arbitrarily and without any consciousness of reality about generalised lawlessness and chaos in the country, you still do not hurt the government and SYRIZA. You are targeting the Greek Police itself, the leadership of the Greek Police, the men and women of the Greek Police, who perform their work daily and often at risk of their own life. Of course, an indication of your constant old age is that while today, from the point of view, you blame them for not doing their job well - because that is what you are doing, since there is such a generalized outburst of lawlessness, the country is a clear vine, chaos, it does not do its job - the police are tired of writing tweets with congratulations on the Greek Police and calling the Chief. Last November you congratulated on the dismantling of the Roma coil. Last January for the arrest of the City Rupe. A month ago congratulations on the detection and arrest of the kidnappers of Lebidakis. And the other day, for your bad fortune, for the arrest of the defendant for the attack on Mr. Papademos. And I'm saying for your bad luck, because you'd asked her before. And at the time you denounced chaos and lawlessness, when Mr. Dendias wrote online that Greece has been in a constant cycle of violence and blood, you once again called the Chief of Police to say to him: "Congratulations for your success". Mr. Mitsotakis, what can I tell you? It's your right to give the image, Doctor Jekyll and Mister Hyde. However, I would like today to give you the opportunity, to enlighten you, to help you overcome your confusion and to keep one of the two. Keep congratulations and not the crowns for the alleged outbreak of crime. And I'll talk to evidence. I will give you the official figures from the Greek Police, which if you deserve your congratulations, at least it is worth not denying her as far as her data is concerned. First of all, I will tell you the official figures on the great crime of the last two and a half years that the country has flown into lawlessness and the blood cycle. You know, I don't claim to be criminal. I will claim, on the basis of the evidence, that they have been reduced. On your day. In 2012, we had a hundred sixty - five homicides, in 2013, a hundred forty - one, in 2014, a hundred - five. We have had eighty last year forty-two this year. They fell below half. Also, compared to last year, there is a reduction in fraud - significant for a time of crisis - as in forgery cases. I'll explain what I mean. 7% reduction in theft, shop burglars. Reduction by 8.6% in thefts and burglaries in houses. Decrease in infractionality on the sidewalk, by 67% down, on the bag grabs. A 75% reduction in the robbery with a snatch of bags. Decrease 22% in the robbery inside houses. Decrease 22% in supermarket robberies. These are elements and you here present an image to scare the world that we don't go on the road, we don't know what happens that the world is locking up, shut up, fear. Fear is your main argument. We're going to the most infamous outbreak of the attacks on police officers in Attica. Ten attacks on police departments between 2012 and 2014, over the next three years. One hundred and twenty-nine attacks against policemen on your day thirty-three since 2015. The so-called exacerbation of the violation in Attica. Attacks against shops and houses. Three hundred twenty-five on your days, thirty-six since 2015. Attacks against banks. Two hundred sixty-two over your days, thirty-one since 2015. Vehicle arson. Two hundred thirty-two on your days, seventy-two since 2015. You're becoming graphical with what you're saying, do you understand? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And finally, your favorite theme, Exarchia, for an area that obviously faces problems and the residents who live there are having problems, but I don't think that the problems can be solved or dealt with by targeting the area as a whole, slandering, despising it. So we have had 13% less attacks on political offices and persons in the last three years, 88% less attacks on shops and houses. Most importantly, though, in the three years 2012-2014 in Exarchia fewer arrests were made than they are now but five-fold incubations and this shows the different conception prevailing in the leadership of the Greek Police. So we have 28% more arrests in Exarchia and 87% less provocations. You made a thousand six hundred five incubations and we were two hundred and three. You made a hundred and forty - four arrests of the thousand six hundred five incubations, we made two hundred three incenses with a hundred and eighty - five arrests. Why? Because the arrests in the area on your day were not the case. You're the ones who've been doing "humble" operations, whoever the grace takes, people who hang around, children who have participated in mobilisations, without any infringing activity, while we are aiming to dismantle the circuits of high infraction, raging the action of gangs of the ordinary criminal law. After all, during Mr. Samaras' governance, it is true that Athens had become an iron city. In your day the repression has gone beyond any previous and - I repeat - not the repression against the criminals, it shows the results, but just and unjust. However, it turns out that the famous doctrine of the zero tolerance you had introduced had no effectiveness and did not lead to a reduction in crime. It was a purely ideological and political choice, which also had as a goal, of course, by using violence and repression, to hold themselves with nails and teeth in power at a very difficult time for you then. But these days, Mr. Mitsotakis, are over. Since you referred to the molotovs, the difficulties, I want you to go more than I do, to meet a hotelier in the center, to tell you what was going on in the center of Athens in 2012, 2013 and 2014, where the 'practices', according to what some of your ministers have said, played theft war with the hoodiers and molotovs, and what is the picture today and how effective this policy of repression was at that time and how effective the current policy that hits crime and does not turn to fair and unfair. Because today in the center of Athens the picture is not the image you have given of fear, terror, repression, plundering and theft. Today, in the center of Athens, what we all see is thousands of tourists who daily see sightseeing and not hoodmen playing robbery with the Police, as was the case in your days. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] The Greek Police are making best use of its potential to combat crime. I would therefore like to continue to quote the facts. The Greek Police, in recent years, have had great successes, Mr. Mitsotakis. It's not really worth this kind of generalization. He does, of course, wonder how it is possible that you have asked for three - four times - if I am not mistaken, Mr Toska - the resignation of the Minister, who is the Minister, how to do so, on whose behalf the Greek Police had all these successes! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] So let me remind you, Mr Mitsotakis, that your government, despite the fact that you are constantly talking about law and order, is not just that it had these statistics that I described to you before. It is that you did what was going through your hand, to create a climate of irony city in Athens and also to weaken the operational capacity of the Greek Police. Because while you as Minister this morning declared the law and order, at night you signed the police releases. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] In the new Republic, ladies and gentlemen, with the Minister of Administrative Reform Mr Mitsotakis and Mr Twelfths revolved today for the blood cycle, Minister of Public Order, six thousand organic positions were abolished in the police, while at the same time the Municipal Police were abolished.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u12	Kennes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u13	There's no vacant officer's seat! It's a good place for the city officer! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] With the abolition of the Municipal Police, therefore, the burden of police policing in the city by the Greek Police increased de facto. This is your work, unlike the project, with the great success the Greek police bring today and beyond what I will say and take more time and I will say it because, ladies and gentlemen, we will not hear it this evening in the news reports. We're not listening to all of what I'm going to say today. We won't read them in the big newspapers that terrorize the world. You'll be a little patient, Mr. Mitsotakis, listen to them. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] So, beyond the liberation of the businessman Lebidakis and the arrest of his kidnappers, in addition to the detection of the murder of Zafiropoulou - I will then say - beyond the arrest of the alleged killer...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u14	Supposedly.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u15	Suspect is until it's proven, convicted. Sure. That's what our legal culture says. Well, accuseed. Beyond the arrest of the accused 20-year-old terrorist, the arrest of Polia Rupa, in addition to all of this, I would mention successes. We had the dislocation of a group of large purse coils, operating for many years at subway stations. We had the dismantling of a multi-faceted international criminal organization, active in importing significant quantities of cocaine and other drugs from Latin America. Twenty-three people were arrested. They're charged with fourteen more. We had the dismantling of two multiple criminal organizations, committed by robberies and distinguishedfts both in homes in Attica and in the rest of the country. After successive police operations, more than 10 million euros were found stolen. We had the dismantling of multiple criminal organisations that imported drugs from Turkey and Albania. Thirty-eight people were arrested. They're charged with another twenty-one. We had the detection of four thefts of specialist medical equipment - remember it - by public hospitals in Attica, Lamia, Larissa, Volos, who were perpetrated by members of an international criminal organisation. We had the detection of a hundred and forty - five cases of robbery and distinguishedfts of criminal organization, whose members removed safes in the Attica, Boeotia, Fthiotis and Evia. Fifteen people were arrested, and under way they are investigating their participation in hundreds of criminal offences. We had the transnational operation to dismantle a criminal organisation, active in trafficking in significant quantities of drugs in the Balkans. Twenty-two people were arrested. We had the dismantling of a multi-stakeholder criminal organization, which committed chills in jewellery stores in Attica and burglaries in homes in Attica and Epirus. Twenty-two cases were detected. Among other things, weapons and large amounts of jewellery, gold pounds and gold rods were found. That reminds you of something, I guess. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] That's all this year. But also in 2016, a transnational criminal organisation with members in various countries of the European Union, who were active in the illicit trafficking of individuals using fake travel documents and destinations of Central and Northern Europe. Twenty-four members were arrested, one thousand three hundred passports, three hundred IDs twenty-nine countries and modern documenting machines were confiscated. It was also dismantled by a hundred forty - six members of the criminal organization, structured hierarchically in seven levels, active in drug trafficking in the center of Athens. After a long investigation ninety - seven people were arrested. A group was structured that typed false OSCE transport tickets. One million tickets were confiscated, twelve printed ticket rolls and investigations continue. Now I see the reaction, the big one, to the online ticket. Well, we won't let the illegality continue undisturbed. We'll hit her at her root, no matter how much some people are bothered. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] There was also a multi-member group that removed safes from companies and ATMs, with a large-scale company that participated over a thousand police officers. Forty-one people were arrested and another forty-eight are being charged. More than three hundred cases of robbery, theft and burglary were identified in various regions of the country. A large amount of jewellery, gold rods, large deposits booklets in banks, over sixty luxury cars, was seized. It was a great success, too, for the first time in Exarcheic criminal organization, which was active in trafficking and trafficking in narcotics. Fourteen members were arrested, large quantities of drugs and weapons were seized. That's our deposit. That's her. What was yours? I'm not telling you this, Mr. Mitsotakis, if you'd like to have any more congratulations to the police. That's enough of what you shared. I'm telling you, if you're going to appreciate, that you finally apologise for the lies you've been dispersing for days of lawlessness, for chaos, for a blood cycle in the country for the last two and a half years, because it's shameful what you've been doing. It's embarrassing what you're doing. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Like also, it is a disgrace, what you say about the Law of Friday, a necessary law, as you know very well, because you know the chaos that prevailed in prisons and I will tell you why it is a shame. Make as much criticism as you want in the law. It is shameful to lie, which has even been reproduced by New Democracy's friends, that you said so today - the three perpetrators of the robbery and the attack on an eighty-five-year-old woman had been released under the Act of Friday. But it follows from the Greek Police that none of the truth has anything to do with the above, supposedly, revealed and that only one of the three had a four-month sentence for theft, which had been converted into a buy-out. So he went out, not under the law of Friday. But a little you cared about that, a little bit of your concern, if any of it has anything to do with your claim. So much worse for reality, as long as your claim is spread! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] The same attempts - you did not say it today - some friendly means of and in relation to the action that was arrested, at a record time of the murder of Zafiropoulou, that my things too were found out to murder the unfortunate lawyer, released by the Act of Paradise, while he was out, using a licence that is not the Law of Paradise and to remind you, because if that is the case...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u16	We didn't talk about that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u17	I'm talking about the papers, I'm not saying you said it yourself. But you would say so too, since you have copy paste from the publications, you do nothing else!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u18	Okay, quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u19	No, Mr President, I will tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u20	Not say it!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u21	Whoever lived in this country this summer had the feeling, following the media, that all Greece has burned that biblical destruction has occurred, that at least in 2017 it was comparable to the great natural destruction of Elijah and the dozens of dead. And yesterday came the official results of the fire brigade, which present the operational work of the Fire brigade and show that in 2016 we had a significant reduction in burnt areas. In 2016 we had three hundred sixty-five thousand acres burned and two hundred sixteen thousand acres in 2017. Consider, in relation to the average of the previous nineteen years: In the previous nineteen years, the average of burnt areas was four hundred thousand acres and in 2017, the means gave the feeling, and you personally had burned the place, we had two hundred sixteen thousand acres, which is less than half. This is the image, these are "fake news", in which you are pushing to create the image of destruction, destruction. You're looking to get caught by any news that creates a destruction picture. Why are you doing this? Because you are desperate to do this, because you have missed authority, you are doing this, but evil of your head, Mr. Mitsotakis. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I now come to the issue of the murder of the unfortunate lawyer, Michael Zafiropoulos, who you did not even bother waiting for the police investigation to be completed, and you rushed to this Chamber, through Mr. Javara's mouth, but also other officials in public appearances to claim that behind the murder there are political motives. And then after that attitude, the next day, a front page of a newspaper known to support you on your sideliness hastened to inform readers that the murder of Zafiropoulou causes panic in Maximus. I wonder, then, honestly: Now that the Greek police in a time of record have traced the crime, arrested the perpetrator and identified the natural perpetrators and, of course, it turns out that there was no political time in the motives of the perpetrators, what do you have to say? Should we write that in the sand, forget it, was it a bad time perhaps? Say it, though. Ask for an apology for how you poison public opinion and try to create issues where they do not exist. I would like to close, Mr President, by saying this. My first speech will be closed, because I imagine, I will be provoked and we will have a second round of placements, it is certain that this is the case, and that is the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u22	And for the first talk, you have a great time. The President has gone in twenty-six minutes, you can go up to fifty. What can we do? That's the way it goes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u23	No, Mr President, I'm not going.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u24	What can we do? That's the way it goes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u25	Mr President, I will conclude by saying this: Mr Mitsotakis, it is clear from what you have said and what you have done lately that you have finally been looking for lawlessness where your extreme right-wing rhetoric is. You are only looking for her in Exarcheia and not in the hooligans that are organized attacking newspaper offices, because their owners are opposed to the owners of their team and not to the action of the Golden Dawn battalions. Because you have informed the Greek, us and the international public in an interview with "POLITICO" that today the Golden Dawn is as if it does not exist. That's what you said. So you're not looking for the lawlessness where you don't want to see it. But you know, lawlessness doesn't only hang out in Exarchia. It also happens in more glamorous areas. It has already been in your own court, Mr Mitsotakis. I see here in front of your party secretary. It's been a week. One answer you did not give the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u26	You're not watching.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u27	In recent times, Mr Mitsotakis and Mr Aygeakis, as you interrupt me because you have the courage to speak, last week the police have been tired of arresting people with whom you are apprehensive, people with whom you are accustomed, members of criminal organisations. He's tired! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] The drug dealer Papoutsakis yesterday was arrested a fugitive, the Black Gold Papoutsis before. These are the perfect ones your excellent partners are hanging out with, Mr. Mitsotakis. In all this - i.e. jackpots, to play any Lottos these days - the testimony of Mrs. Tsakalou's Christmas secretarial has come to remind us that lawlessness does not only drink coffee in Exarchia, Mr. Mitsotakis, but unfortunately also in your party's living room and indeed in a SIEMENS cafeteria. [[Laughing - applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I am very sorry, Mr Mitsotakis, but it was such a timely question that today I am the one who is asking you to give answers. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Finally give persuasive answers to the Greek people. Will you remove your trusted person who is squeezing, chatting and facilitating criminals, or will you continue to provide him with cover? You must give answers today, Mr. Mitsotakis. Unfortunately you don't ask.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u28	Thank you. The floor is held by the Chief of Officerial Response and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u29	Mr. Tsipras, you've done nothing. But one thing remains stable. Your appeal to personal attacks, lies and slander. You are the same Mr. Tsipras of 2015. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Because you see, the character of man is finally not changing, ladies and gentlemen. Let me begin, therefore, with your concerns about the direction of our party and your concerns about how much we want to take New Democracy to the right or to the centre. Mr. Tsipras, the truth is one: the New Democracy goes up and you go down and this is reflected every day in the conscience of the Greek people. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You told us that we tried to organise today's debate, because we do not like the reality that you create with your enormous economic success. Indeed, Mr Tsipras, we are not at all at all at all, because you have taxed and dismantled the middle class. Not even the citizens are at ease. We do not like it, and we do not like it at all, Mr Tsipras, the fact that you create false surpluses without giving pensions. We do not like the fact that the 14 billion measures you have taken are another 5 billion measures for 2019 and 2020 that bear your signature. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] That's why, Mr. Tsipras, you didn't find a word to say. And we certainly do not like the fact that you come cynical and admit that your policy has dissolved the middle class because you wanted to get it - it says - from the middle layers to give it to the poor. You know, I realized the role of the Left in taking them from the rich and giving them to the poor. You take them all and make them all poorer. This is the deposit of your own policy, Mr. Tsipras! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I now come to questions relating to the subject of our own question. Now you remember, Mr. Tsipras, the Greek police? Now you remember her? Did you ask me to apologize for what exactly, Mr. Tsipras? Your comrades were the ones who called the police pigs and murderers. I will talk to you sometime in this Chamber to hear them, ladies and gentlemen. You took the lead in all responses to the police. You were the one who in 2008 said that the police had to disarm and that the MATs are non-state organisations. That is what you said, Mr Tsipras. Look at me a little. Will you apologise for these? Will you apologise for all this? How you systematically undermined law and order compliance with a rhetorical extremity, with a rhetorical arsonist, with a rhetoric that always did not recognize a simple reality, that in violence there is no ideological sign. There's no ideological mark on the murder, there's no ideological mark on the robbery. He's not looking at the robber or the killer if the man who kills or robs is right or left. When will you understand that, Mr. Tsipras? That this is not an agenda on the Left, the Right or the Center. When will you realize, Mr Tsipras, that in every organized state the monopoly of violence has the state and not the group of rulers who may think it can burn Athens and be constantly in the unpredictable state, why can you have selective ideological relations with those you once protected? You had the courage, Mr. Tsipras, to stand here and remind the House of what happened in the country in '12, '13 and '14. Don't we remember what happened in the country then? On the other hand, you were, all of you or most of you. You have undermined the legitimately elected government. You adopted his rhetoric of hatred and violence. And when you've achieved your goal, you've worn your nice suits, you've been sitting in the parliamentary chairs to come now to represent us as the honorers of democracy. We don't forget your role and your role, Mr. Tsipras, in the revolution of the indignant in '13 and '14. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mr Tsipras, I have asked you a number of very specific questions which unfortunately have not been answered at all. What's going on, Mr. Tsipras, in prison? You have the possibility and now you still have the answer. Why did you abolish Type III prisons? I return to this issue because I consider it extremely important. Don't you know that you've turned prisons into a meeting centre for terrorists, criminals and majestics, who can at all times talk to anyone they want and plan criminal acts within prisons? You spoke - and this is a shame on you - about the murder of Zafiropoulou. Michael Zahiropoulos was a friend of mine and a prominent executive of this party. With great responsibility, I placed myself publicly after his terrible murder. And we left no hints at all. Lie when you say that. It's a shame in the memory of a man who lost his life!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u30	You're very welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u31	But I'll tell you one more thing. If it turns out that the murder of Zafiropoulou was designed in prison, what are you going to say? What are you going to say, Mr. Tsipras? It leaves you chilly indifferent. It leaves you indifferent. You will simply raise your shoulders, not recognizing the reality that your policy, unfortunately, has created. You didn't find a word to say, Mr. Tsipras, on the subject of universities. Why is this conversation so bothering you? For the various anti-semitists who have always found asylum in the universities, after they have burned, broken and plundered Athens, in the case of the student of MEDA who was beaten because he dared to enter the university without getting permission from anyone, for all of them, Mr Tsipras, in the thirty-five minutes of your chatty prototype - which looked more like a police paper than a speech by Prime Minister - you found no talk to say. Mr Tsipras, I am really sorry that you too are well aware that the situation in the universities today is out of control. You are well aware that the notorious 'insurance of ideas' has turned into an asylum of infraction. So I tell you, from here, clearly - because the good accounts make good friends - that the university is public space and the Criminal Code will also apply within the university, with an exception only for crimes relating to freedom of expression. For all the other crimes, on our own days, the Criminal Code will apply within the university, to finish once and for all these terrible phenomena that poison the public university, create an image of lawlessness in the public university and give opportunities to small groups, possibly your political friends, to have transformed the universities into a man of lawlessness. Iron police. The only railroad road I see is the Herod Attica, Mr. Tsipras. Your days have done this. You've turned him on a personal path. You had the courage, once again, with this provocative vulgarity that characterizes you, to talk about police fires. Who fired cops, Mr. Tsipras?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u32	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u33	You're lying! You're vulgar liars and slanders! Because what Mr Dendias has done was to abolish vacant organic positions. When the Municipal Police was abolished, workers moved to other services. So you're lying about the police being fired.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u34	But security services...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u35	You said I fired cops. Apologise for what you said, Mr Tsipras. Apologise now! Because your appeal to lie, unfortunately, is completely uncontrolled.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u36	Please! It is a matter of clearing up the issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u37	Mr. President, penitentiary officers in prison, no...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u38	And further clarification has now been made, you have helped, Mr Athanasios.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u39	They have been clarified, Mr President, but this does not cancel the fact that the Prime Minister of the country is standing at this step and lying once again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u40	Aren't you ashamed?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u41	Shame on you. You're offended.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u42	Mrs. Alonitou, please don't talk again. I would like to mention to you personally, because this is the third time. I did not mention the two previous ones. Don't let that happen again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u43	You referred to the case of the Secretary of the Political Committee. I imagined you would, because you have been preparing it with very great systematicity all week, to the great, supposedly, revelation. Up to now, literature and websites that were set up on your behalf were beneath the government line. But for the first time, I see a Prime Minister operating as a liar newspaper. They write them, Mr. Tsipras, and you make them. You promised that you would be every word of the Constitution and become every word of each booklet, which constantly recycles the same chewed food. And the irony is that today we are talking about lawlessness and you come here, to blur the waters, with unjust affairs of the past, which, as far as I know, have already been answered. And all this has been done, supposedly symptomically, as we have just asked you a question on safety issues. But you know in politics, Mr. Tsipras, there are no coincidences. Because your appearance today, especially at the end of your speech, - I had the hope that you wouldn't finally refer there -...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u44	I'm sure you had the hope.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u45	...it was pathetic because you actually came to speak as the official representative of SYRIZA and ANEL. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] A parastate, Mr. Tsipras, fed by dark mechanisms. A paratrocrat, who, when not blackmailing, always slanders with support for certain media that you built to support. It is the paradox of telephone monitoring and pressures on justice, which, moreover, the judges themselves have repeatedly denounced. Mr Tsipras, not only did you return the country back to everything, but you succeeded and returned it to the worst period of 'anyanism'. After all, it explains that Mr. Kouris is your most faithful fan. Unfortunately, however, for them, but also for every Greek citizen in Greece, there is still a distinction of powers. There is justice, Mr Tsipras, which will judge and where those who resort to it will be able to find their point of view, those who consider that they are now being slandered by you and by the various speakers, who can be represented. I would like to send a message, however, today from the Step of the House to the various intertwined "jobs", old and new, which are most closely associated with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u46	Please, be quiet! No signals! Go on, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u47	Not only are we afraid of you, Mr Tsipras, but you can be sure that as long as you follow such methods of mud and slander, you will be overwhelmed by the verdict of the Greek people to whom you will answer. Some others will answer to justice and - believe me - they will have many reasons today to fear. Let me tell you something, Mr Tsipras: Elections have lost many political skills - in my assessment - and more important than you. It's not a shame to lose elections. You'll find out sometime, too. It's a shame to try to survive with misery, vulgarity, through alliances with Kureids and Waxvanes. That's your word and that's what's gonna mark you! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And I'm really sorry you chose to follow this road. Once again, I didn't get any answers. Let me see if I'll take my dentistry. I didn't get any answers or why you opened the prison doors or why you did the favours of terrorists, or why you're a bunch of "Rubics" or why you're making the wrong eyes to lawlessness and crime. But today, if anything, you must ask, even late, for an apology from those for whom we have come to discuss, because you have dealt with everyone as a scene, to get out of and throw mud, from those who have lost people, their fellow men, from the murderers, who have been released from all those who have fallen victim to theft and torture, from those who have doubled their homes from fear, from the men of the police whom you have slandered, from all the citizens who have today expected certain commitments and have heard nothing from you. To all these people, Mr. Tsipras, you owe an apology. They're not taking her. All these people won't hear any apology from you. Apologies are not compatible, unfortunately, with your cynicism. And it's the same cynicism as Mr. Tsakalotou and Mr. Juliarakis, who finally confessed that they killed the middle class with the irrational taxes they imposed. Mr. Tsipras, instead of smiling every three minutes, I would advise you to attach yourself to... [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] ... because the verdict of the Greek people comes and will be merciless with you. And then I'll see what happens in your party when there's not gonna be the welding tissue of power.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u48	Thank you. The Prime Minister has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u49	Mr President, Mr Mitsotakis has lost his temper, it is obvious. He closed this second-guess - where I do not know how many times he repeated the words 'fake', 'fake', 'dresh', 'dream', he has nothing more to say - with a crown that reminded thousands, 'the verdict comes, the Monday Presence comes'. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Mr. Mitsotakis, you keep calling me a liar from morning to night. You, who say truths, why didn't you dare tell the Greek people a truth about two crucial issues that I put to you today? I also put the matter to you - old but, of course, timely, after Mrs Tsakalou's statement - for the gifts of 'SIEMENS' to you personally and members of your family, and I raised the issue of your close colleague Mr Aygeakis. I'll explain why and how I put this. But you, who say the truth, did not dare. You are deleting other Members of your parliamentary group because they have a different view from you, but, from what I understand, you consider it self-evident that your party's secretary may speak, be smuggled, photographed, protected and facilitate individuals of the ordinary criminal law. But before I come to that, I want to tell you something. You lost your temper, you talked about fake surpluses. I do not want to talk about this. I would like to tell you this: Mr Ayggenaki's case was not initiated by any para-stater, Mr Mitsotakis. It is rather a paradox that they are associated with people under the ordinary criminal law. You, in fact, are criticizing the newspaper, which published it, you will also sue. Soon, you may also sue the prosecutor who made the case. You will sue the case-file yourself in the end! However, here we have a fact, which has nothing to do with a para-state, as you say, nor with the extra-state mechanisms. It's about prosecuting the common crime. The Narcotics Department of the ILO watched a suspect in drug trafficking in Photida. And he was right to watch him. At the DA's office, he was following him. This is what happens when there are suspects of committing crimes under ordinary criminal law. He ran into conversations with another partner, obviously, in the common criminal crime, a blackdog involved in a circuit, which was going out on external jewelry, to bring them back into gold bars and where they were watching this one - and they did so at the end, they haunted the indictment and all this is in the file - the police coroners, who were following the two criminals on the order, and they caught the secretary of your parliamentary group and the guard trusted to chat with the criminals. Here, of course, you did a committee of inquiry because Kammenos spoke to the defendant and told him to go to justice. So, with the same logic, I should not raise the matter. But the point is, he wasn't talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u50	Do we know what he said?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u51	But here we know what he said, Mr Mitsotakis, and you still have him a secretary of your party. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] [[Noise - protests from the New Democracy Wing]] Sit down, Mr. Ausgeakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u52	Be quiet. Mr. Ausgeakis, what you say is not written in the Minutes. You're not gonna be like this. If you want, make statements to the press outside or on the channels, not in here and in such a way. Understand? The nerve enough! Please! The President of the New Democracy spoke twice. There's no need for lawyers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u53	Mr. Aeggeakis makes sense to have lost his temper, but he doesn't have to lose his temper, because he has the strong support of his party leader. So don't always blame me. You've got support. Don't get upset. The question is why Mr Mitsotakis provides this support. What's Mr. Aggenakis holding him for, and he doesn't ask for explanations?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u54	Be quiet. Don't talk underneath.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u55	So I want to say this. Mr Aeggeakis comes here and rises with heavy expressions against the Prime Minister - a short time ago, in addition to "false" you said other words - while he comes from an area that is truly friendly, even though he comes from there, rather than rushing and saying that "yes, I have spoken with them" and explain why he spoke with them, what is he doing? Is he dismissing his trusted guard, possibly trying to load his responsibility on him? I don't know why. How honest a stand is this? So his guard, his trusted man, who was talking to the black-goer, who is a partner of the fugitive and arrested yesterday's drug dealer, does not only stand in the transactions, in the "gifts", that is to say, of the black-goer to Mr. Aughaki for a variety of services, but during his conversation, which has been recorded, not by the parastate, Mr. Mitsotakis, but by the official mechanism of the Greek police, who is following criminals on the order, he is allegedly saying that it is your excellent partner who, with an effort to release one of the kidnappers of Panagopoulos. Do you consider this normal to happen? Aren't you going to ask Mr. Aggenakis to explain to you what this is all about? Tell us an answer, it's a lie, tell us something. Instead, you come here and instead of saying a word about all of this, focus on your criticisms in the media, which highlighted the existing case-file. Do something, do what you think, but I think you're in a very difficult position. I'm on my way to the rest. Mr. Mitsotakis, you have occasionally been accused of your party's officials and in other cases of talks with criminals and of talks with blackmailers' circuits. Let me remind you - because it is not just Mr Augias, it is a mentality - that it is not a long time and a half - your party has been revealed that your party was financing Panagiotis Mavrikos, who had been accused of participating in a blackmail circuit, at the expense of public enterprises of general interest, banks and businessmen, in order to get ads. Good, officially and institutionally speaking, because the invoices came out, not in our friendly newspapers, in newspapers that support you - it was normally paid. We did not receive a reply from the New Democracy. As we also did not receive an answer to a number of other unfair behaviours and dealings of managers, such as Mr Slavonis, whom you anointed head of the New Democracy's development programme, by upgrading him from the Financial Stability Fund, which Mr Samaras had put in and was later audited for an extended tax evasion circuit, for the sake of the customers of the UBS bank. Why am I saying all this? I am saying all this, Mr Mitsotakis, because lawlessness and crime are, unfortunately, not just molotovs. They are also the blackmailers, they are also the gold smugglers, they are the 'SIEMENS', with the gifts to politicians, they are corruption and endless scandals of the 'white collar'. And in all of this, despite the most persuasive accusations you have put on me as a "false", as a "false" and Mr Paradise and others, you have not found a single word to say. You, who tell the truth, tell us one truth about all this. Mr Mitsotakis, all I will say in closing is that today you have not dared to do something that everyone would congratulate you on. You have not dared to dismiss Mr. Aygeakis, your close associate, for his dealings with people of the para-state. Because they are a para-state, not the police who are detecting cases of ordinary criminal law. You have not found this courage and honest attitude to go out here in the Greek Parliament and say, yes, lawlessness is not just Exarchia, it is lawless, where and whenever it happens. Although, once again, you expressed your certainty that you will win in the next election and, oh of the miracle, you have reached the point of accusing me, you, for "false" support. Mr. Mitsotakis, I'll tell you one thing. The Greek people will be the one to give the final verdict. But be sure that in no country in the world or Greece, SIEMENS did not win elections.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u56	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u57	Wait a minute, please. The regulation does not provide for a circle of tertiary tertiary matters, to be clear. Mr Mitsotakis, however, wants something, perhaps on personal grounds, and of course the Prime Minister will answer. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u58	Yeah, it's personal. Mr Tsipras, I have not received any gifts from any SIEMENS. You know it very well and insist on repeating the same firm slander. I would ask you not to do this again, because you are lying once again to this issue. With regard to the question of the paradox to which I have referred, does it not seem strange to you, ladies and gentlemen, that, every time, there are selective excerpts of talks in the same newspaper, concerning New Democracy officials? Does that make sense to you, Mr. Tsipras?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u59	If they talk to criminals.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u60	Does it make sense to you that today you, as Prime Minister, cannot guarantee confidentiality of communications? Does all these things sound reasonable to you, which is happening?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u61	You're very welcome. Quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u62	Please explain to me, then, if this reality with which we are constantly faced with a threat that someone is listening to someone and that a conversation can run into a friendly form of yours to create a problem - supposedly - in the New Democracy, is it reasonable? Once again you lied. Mr. Slavonis was never my counselor. His name was announced for one day. This accusation was then published which has not yet been proved - I stress it! - and once again, you are the ones who are going to murder characters. But when some people come to court and get acquitted, the only thing left will be the spiral of their character. What you say to me about Mr Maurikos, I do not know about them, nor do I worry about them. Perhaps you should ask Mr. Pappas about the invoices he paid to Mr. Davarakis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u63	The President has the floor to close the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u64	I shall be very brief, Mr President, because this has been exhausted. It's obvious that Mr. Mitsotakis either didn't understand or he doesn't want to understand what I'm saying to him. He referred once again to the confidentiality of conversations. So I repeat to him that this is a procedure which is rightly done by the prosecutor's order. When the Greek Police are in front of circuits of the ordinary criminal law, they are following the talks.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u65	Quiet, please. What's wrong with you, Mr. Georgioda? Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u66	So these conversations were found in the case-file and they are in the case-file. So the case-file of this notorious case of the black gold market, as it is well known - those who know and are legal - is open to all lawyers involved in defending persons and therefore, in this sense, there is no confidential procedure. There's no protection of the case. We all know that. So, you want to say this or you get lost? They're probably getting away with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u67	Just quiet down, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u68	Let's actually go now. It is clear that Mr Mitsotakis did not want any answers on the substance. He knows why. Instead, he said more than fifteen times that the Prime Minister is a liar, that he is trying to keep him with actions that you have described as being outlawed. I, Mr Mitsotakis, want to tell you one thing: Whether you are or are not innocent, whether Mr Aygeakis is or is not innocent is not the House that will judge it. But once again, you called me a liar.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u69	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u70	Don't get upset.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u71	You're very welcome. Don't episode!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u72	Don't get so upset. You will answer to your voters who are your commanders. So what I want to say to you, Mr Mitsotakis, is that as far as I am concerned - because you said that I am a liar, that I am making personal attacks - I have carried you here not my own, if you will, a crisis as to whether you have taken or not received the gifts from SIEMENS, but the statement by Mr Christoforikos. You know Mr. Christmas, I imagine. He is the one who escaped abroad thanks to the fact that Mrs Bakoyannis did not then take care of the warrant to be arrested. He fled abroad like Karavelas and others. So Mr Christoforikos' secretary left the court yesterday and said he had ordered telephone calls for the equipment of Mr.Mitsotakis' political offices. In fact - I think - the expenditure coverage was above the permitted limit. He also said: "Mr. Christoforikos told me to find a way to be covered by the company, but I had no magical way. There was a long time of time, there was a fuss in the press and after there was a fuss in the press, Mr. Mitsotakis finally covered the amount." [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] You covered it, Mr Mitsotakis, when you were caught with the sprout on your back, not with the sprout, but with the gifts of 'SIEMENS'. Mr Mitsotakis, listen to this, you might think they are well known. You may also consider that they do not play any role. But you know what? I will tell you one thing: today you are claiming - in vain, in my opinion, and I have explained the reason before - that you should govern the country again. And what you are presenting here today is your moral order in which you will be called upon to redeem the support of the Greek people and to come back from you who led the country to plundering and bankruptcy. Well, Mr. Mitsotakis, don't be fooled! That's not gonna happen. And that's not going to happen, no matter how much Greek society is drowned in lying and making news. As much as lying and poisoning the Greek society, the Greek people and memory have a conscience. And the moral criterion is top of his choice. It was always and it would be next time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u73	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, forty-seven students and students and three educational sessions from the 1st General School of Transformation (Second Chamber). The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to leave the Chamber quietly for those who will not stay in order to continue the debate on the topical and urgent questions. I have the honour to inform the House that the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs is tabling its report on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: 'Agreements on the purchase of toys'. Also, I have the honour to announce Monday 6 November 2017. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 203/31-10-2017 topical question by the Member of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Panagiotis (Panou) Skouriakou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Statement of study centres". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 191/30-10-2017 topical question by MP Heraklion of the New Democracy, Eleftherios Ausgenakis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: “An exploration of the dues of the EEAS”. 3. O by No. 164/30-10-2017 a topical question by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Awkward developments regarding the sale of AUGA "The National". 4. The Question No 211/31-10-2017 by F' Vice-President of Parliament and Member of Parliament Laris of the Communist Party of Greece Mr George Lambroulis to the Minister of Health, entitled "IFET Institute for Pharmaceutical Research and Technology". 5. The 160/27-10-2017 topical question by the Member of the Attica of Independent Greeks Mr Konstantinos Katsikis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Decreased Student Cost in Public Transport". 6. The 163/30-10-2017 topical question by Mr Anastasios Megamomoustakas, Member of the Union of Central and Eastern Europe, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "They are looking for... musicians at the Serre Music School. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 204/31-10-2017 of the Second Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Aetolokarnania Coalition Mr.George Born to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Official gaps in the Agrinio Music School". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 190/30-10-2017 topical question by MP Drama of the New Democracy Mr. Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the subject: “The operation of the General Reservation Store Nikiforos Dramas”. 3. The 193/30-10-2017 topical question by MP II of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdus to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Reimbursement of public debts to private individuals". 4. The 156/25-10-2017 topical question by MP MEP I of the Centroon Association Mr.Ioannis Saridis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: ‘The functioning of the Hellenic Open University (EPC)’. 5. The 205/31-10-2017 topical question by MP Chania of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Antonios Balomannakis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, entitled "Illegal Convention at the Polytechnic University of Crete". 6. PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Application of measures in favour of small savers who lost their money with debt cuts in 2012." 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question by No. 101/17-10-2017 of the Greek People's Association - Golden Dawn, Ilias Panagiotarou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: 'Ragda increase in measles in the country'. 8. The question by No. 138/23-10-2017 of the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: 'Reintegration of public debtors into the regulation of 100 instalments'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u75	Mr President, may I make an intervention?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u76	You're welcome, Mr. Famele.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u77	Mr President, it was today in the programming of the topical and urgent questions a question from Mr Foetla to me, which, while I said that I would be present, was cancelled yesterday by saying that Mr Fotillas was not present. And because I have also been able to hear from you to observe the ministers when they are not present and are not answering the questions of the Members, and because I saw Mr Fotilla earlier in the Chamber and left just now, and it is the second time that he said something about the dangerous waste of AMIADIT in Patras, which Mr Karathanasopoulos knows, I wanted to say that I was here, that Mr Fotillas was here and I think that Parliament's ethics was here to discuss the question. I just want it to be recorded, because I have heard you ask the ministers to be present and well you are doing, but I think there must also be the equivalent to all the Members of Parliament. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Minister, but I and the other Vice-Presidents do not notice the ministers. Members are simply complaining, so we are obliged to comment because they are addressed to the Bureau and they say 'the Minister is not here', so you understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u79	I must say, however, that I find it inappropriate to invoke a coma when we are here and this is the second time that we could have discussed it. I was away sometimes on a mission trip, but as long as I'm in Athens and we've arranged it, we could do it. He is interested in the society of Patras, Mr. Karathanasopoulos knows about it. Anyway, I'll be here anytime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, too. So we continue with the first with number 210/31-10-2017 topical question from the MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy concerning the massive power cuts in popular households and small businesses in the Municipality of Karystos. The Minister for the Environment and Energy will answer Mr Stathakis. Please, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u81	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, you are well aware that one of the consequences of the political liberalisation of the electricity market is the high-priced electricity tariffs, which are paid gold by people's households, professionals and self-employed. And all this in order to shield the profitability of business groups, which, although our country is very rich in energy sources and could have ensured very cheap energy for the people's layers and professionals, we are in an extensive energy poverty regime, which affects too many people's households, so that they cannot meet their needs, that they cannot pay the great power bills. From this point of view, it is clear that in the area of Karystos in the previous period - a situation that continues - the TENE has moved on to several undertakings to cut the current to hundreds of households and professionals in the region. Even at the workplace, the current has been cut off very recently. Already, there should be more than three hundred million electricity outages in the households of the wider region of Karystos and Marbles. Despite all the efforts and the racing initiatives, it is clear that PPC together with the TEDO have absolutely no desire to tackle this very serious problem and even at a time when it comes and winter. We would like you, Minister, to tell us what specific measures you will take, so that power cuts in people's households and self-employed people are stopped, what measures will you take to ensure cheap and adequate current for all the people's populations by eliminating overall energy poverty and, of course, what measures can you take, in order to drastically reduce the exorbitant debts of the people's layers, which have arisen, precisely because of the huge electricity tariffs.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u82	The Minister for the Environment and Energy will answer Mr Stathakis for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u83	I will start by saying that the electricity prices of PPC for domestic customers have not changed at all since 2014. So there has been no increase in the tariffs for household customers over the last three years. I would add that in 2014 and 2015 they have improved according to the business tariffs, i.e. they have been reduced, as the possibility of scrupulous rebates is given to medium-sized enterprises. Furthermore, I would point out that since July 1, 2016, in the context of the reward of the consistent customer program, PPC provides an additional 15% discount for customers who pay the entire account in time. Also, from April 1, 2016 to April 1, 2017, that is, now, PPC implemented the 30-six-dollar programme without an advance and gave a second chance to join it up to 10-3-2017. Also, to those who were unable to respond to the payment of the delays, it has enabled the reintegration into a dosing programme, including current debts. In addition, - and I would like to stress this - it is the social household tariff, which has income criteria and is part of a very large proportion of households, almost seven hundred thousand, which are faced with great income and other pressure, and which are covered, are part of the social tariff. I would stress, as we are committed, that its reform is directly imminent in an attempt to make a greater discount for the poorest households, that is, the weakest households not to get the same discount they receive today, like everyone else, who is in the social invoice, but to locate the poorest groups and make them bigger discounts, just to make it easier to deal with the problem, which is there. I should also like to stress that the electricity price, which has remained stable over the years, remains at an average European level below the average in Europe in domestic and professional tariffs. Now in relation to power cuts: Power cuts are trying to deal with a major problem, which is the debts, which have accumulated in PPC, which exceeds 2 billion and are related to all categories of customers, of course. And PPC, which has all the data I have just mentioned, promotes an attempt to raise debts primarily - and I stress this - by strategically poor payers. Therefore, having enriched the range of regulation options, which I just mentioned, during 2016 and 2017, simultaneously proceeds to a power cut. I repeat: always in households, which owe more than EUR 1,000, that is to say they have accumulated debts of more than EUR 1,000, because up to EUR 1 000 plus the social invoice there is no power cut. Obviously, there is a reasoned strategy that there will be an interruption of power supply primarily to indifferent customers, i.e. customers who may be able to repay, but who do not pay. This measure may have side effects. Here we are to see whether there is any abuse of this measure or whether there are categories of citizens trying to regulate their debts or conflict with some unfair conduct on the part of the company. I should also like to stress something about the liberalisation of the energy market: obviously, the energy market is moving towards liberalisation. This has been institutionalised since 2004 and since 2007 for all the islands. Consumers now choose their supplier, which may be PPC, can be one of the other private companies that offer electricity services. We will continue the methodic creation of the energy market, as is all of the European directives, but with a regulatory framework, i.e. regulated markets that have strong rules, as defined by the institutional framework and the Energy Regulatory Authority, in order to have at the end of the day a regulated market, which will lead to a reduction in electricity prices rather than an increase, as suggested in the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u84	Mr. Karathanasopoulos has the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u85	Thank you very much, Mr President. Starting with the last thing you said, Minister, there is, of course, at the heart of the problem, a policy of liberation of electricity, and that is not only in our country, it applies at a pan-European level. From 2009 to 2015, on the basis of official figures, electricity tariffs together with taxes and charges, not only the price of kilowatts, increased 47% in our country and in the other countries of the European Union approach 100%, perhaps more. Although there is a rise in know-how, productivity, work, new sources are being introduced, new production units are being created, instead of the current being cheaper, it becomes more expensive. That's why? For a very simple purpose. In order to ensure and shield the profitability of the energy-sector business groups. This is the result: our country has been driven into energy poverty and that cannot be called into question. They are not the populaces or the popular households of PPC's strategic bad payers. Others are elsewhere you have to look for them rather than those who really cannot heat their home or have electricity in this particular situation when there is really a multitude of sources. In fact, we are talking about the southern region of Evia, since we are talking about the specific example of Karystos, where tens of wind parks operate, another twenty have called for the creation of the last period and what is the result of this development of things? The people in the area can't really pay. Despite the arrangements and efforts made, they do not take a walk and do not seek to get rid of them. They call for such treatment to be taken so that they can stand on their feet. Nevertheless, PPC at the last meeting that took place and the regional commander of PPC was in a situation unacceptable, as if it had before it a truly strategic mispaid. So, the Karystos Labour Center is a strategic bad-payer? Carystos, the housewifes of Karystos, fall under the category of strategic malpractices, Minister? Since these solutions cannot be met, they cannot be covered. They go into regulation and go out because they can't pay the current account and what they owe them. So, if there is no brave regulation with a reduction in the debts of the people's strata against PPC, and this reduction in debts is at the expense of the profitability of business groups, because the fees continue to increase for renewable sources, to connect to the network that these charges go and finance business groups, there is this tough person toward households. On substance, the pumping of these 2 billion which PPC is trying to do mainly, Mr Minister, to the public households, to the smaller professionals, to the smaller businesses. We do not have such an example for the major strategic mispaids. On the other hand, they may be subject to other favourable arrangements. From this point of view, this is now precisely how the conditions will be formulated in winter so that no people's family is deprived of at least the electricity. And here they need concrete answers, Minister, because the social invoice is good, but PPC's complaints themselves said that people who had villas in Kifisia and Katali with heated swimming pools that consumed two and three thousand in power bills in the quarter had joined the social invoice because of the income criteria. So this general approach does not stand in the face of the real problems, Minister. We, too, are faced with these real problems and with the real difficulties that the government is facing to stand as the incumbent in politics and the energy sector, with the aim of avoiding any home without energy in 2017. I will present myself to the Minutes and give you, Mr Minister, the resolution of the regional bodies, who are really in despair of the situation that has been created in Karystos and Marmari.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u86	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u87	First of all, I would like to say something about the social invoice. I hear the relentless attacks he is taking, that the seven hundred thousand allegedly exist, there are also wealthy social groups. I will add, in this regard, that we are changing this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u88	PPC President said that, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u89	I repeat, seven hundred thousand households would be surprised if they covered the income criteria, but in any case, with the new ministerial decision I am preparing, we will also add the assets to the income criteria to be 100% guaranteed that certain strategic poor payers, some households trying, while having strong assets, are exempted from the domestic social tariff. At the same time - and I repeat - it is our intention that we should be able to distinguish them from those who actually have a real low income, those who receive social solidarity benefit, for example, so that we can give them an even greater - if possible - discount to ensure that every poor household is given an even greater support, precisely so as to have access to the basic asset of energy. So, in this context, we are exhausting and we will get rid of all the possibilities to deal with at least with the tool that we are currently using and is a practicable phenomenon of energy poverty. I would like to repeat, I would be happy to discuss the particular problems of the region of Karystos and Marbles. If and if there were any issues which could be corrected, we would be happy to do so. We're open to dialogue. On the other hand, we firmly support all the policy of regulations made by PPC and believe that they have facilitated a very large proportion of Greek households. Those numbers are proof of that. I am referring to the figures that have entered into PPC's regulations from this programme, which are impressive and have deviated a very important portion of hundreds of millions of euros from PPC's debts. Furthermore, with regard to the accumulated debts to PPC, which have been in the past by strategic misappropriators - I mean tourists, industrial or other businesses - I think that, over the last year and a half, we have positive samples of integration into a regime of regulation of many hundreds of companies, which have been forced to put themselves in a position of disruption of power. The system has therefore been well rationalised. We are, however, open to any proposal that will improve the social protection of the truly poor and address the problem of accumulated debts, which in some way have to be regulated, compatible with the income and social data we have today.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, the Member Mrs Olga Kefefaliannis is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad from 6 November 2017 to 8 November 2017. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u91	The House therefore approved the requested permission. The Member, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, also requests permission from a short-day absence abroad from 3 November 2017 to 4 November 2017. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u92	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Finally, MP Mr Theocharis (Haris) Theocharis is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad from 7 November 2017 to 9 November. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u93	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, the Secretary-General of the Government, Mr Kaloger, informs Parliament of the reasons why the following topical questions will not be discussed: The first under number 112/23-10-2017 in the first cycle (C) of the New Democracy MP, Jason Fotilla, on the subject of "Will a solution be finally given to the issue of AMIADIT?" It will not be discussed. The Deputy Minister, Mr. Famelos, who was here, has developed his point of view that he is here, but Mr. Fotillas was not here. I'm just repeating it! The second, under number 103/20-10-2017, topical question (C) by H' Vice-President of Parliament and MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the lack of environmental inspectors in Northern Greece, will not be discussed due to his obstruction. The first, with number 167/30-10-2017, topical question by MP II Athens, New Democracy, Miltiadis Varvitsiotis, to the Minister for Migration Policy, on the subject of “Preparation of hospitality structures for the winter period”, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the relevant Minister, Mr. Musala, because of ambassadors. Also, the third, with number 149/24-10-2017, a topical question (C) by the Z Vice-President of the Parliament and MP of Athens, Mr. Spyridonos Lykoudis, to the Minister for Migration Policy, on the subject of 'Increased refugee flows', will not be discussed because of the impediment of the Minister responsible, Mr. Musala, because of meetings with ambassadors. The first under number 9/2-10-2017 a second question (C) by MP Halkidiki of the New Democracy Mr. Georgios Vagionas to the Minister of Economy and Development on the subject of the "House of Broadcasting for Thousands of Bakeries", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development Mr. Haritsis on a service trip abroad. The second question will then be discussed under number 159/27-10-2017, first question by MP, Athens, Independent Greeks, Athanasios Papachristopoulos, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on "Solar Energy". Mr. Papachristopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr President. I'm not complaining. I tabled this question ten days ago and responded quickly. I don't know if it's my sympathetic treatment. But I think it is a big question - I respect all the problems - because it concerns eleven million Greeks. We'll see why. Under the terms of the International Energy Agency, photovoltaic systems, which will produce almost a thousand Gigabyte, will be installed in the next five years, which has managed to reach the coal after eighty years. This quantity even exceeds the amount currently consumed jointly by China, India and Germany. I start my question with this introduction, Minister, and I remind you of what happened a few years ago in the Gulf of Mexico: Five states in the United States have still been in trouble since the oil mining pipeline broke and tourism, the economy, was destroyed. Even those wounds we haven't healed. I thought - and I believe - that, Minister, renewable energy will be the future of the planet. I'm not saying that. Now, everyone around the planet believes that thing. It is no coincidence that the studies say that our country could provide energy for a third of its sun’s needs. I would first like to say: is the sun or not an asset for our country, when we know that we have almost two, two and a half months, all year long sun? It cannot currently cover 25% in Sweden, which we know is that in Sweden the sun is sparse and where it seems, at the same time in Greece the sun is over ten months and could well be a new source of energy for us when we know what is happening at the moment with the unpaid accounts of PPC and we know in general that we are currently without facilities, without any facilities, with zero pollution, quiet operation, decompensation, minimal maintenance and many other advantages. I want to believe that through the solar economy, the country could stand on its feet again. We're all talking about debt, etc. So I would first like you to tell me what you intend to do in order to make the best use of the sun, in my view, one of the strongest possible papers in our country's energy production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u95	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr President. I think there was a coincidence yesterday that the country's assessment by the International Energy Agency was presented in our country. The report is this and I am happy to give it to you and which is a very important report, because it recognises that in the energy sector Greece has made very large reforms and also that participation and promotion of RES is on a very good footing, above the average, which exists in the European Union, which is now fully documented for where we are. Today we produce RES along with hydroelectricity 29% of electricity in the country. We are at 15.4% overall from the participation of RES in the gross final energy consumption of all forms and types. We have reached about 90% of the target we have set for 2020. We have exceeded this objective in this regard in relation to the participation of RES in energy production. However, I stress this, the prospects are enormous and the debate now taking place at European level in 2030 will set the targets on the basis of the objectives set by the Paris Climate Change Agreement and we are talking about very high targets at two levels: first, production of RES in the energy mix, we are talking about targets of 50% and, secondly, energy savings, which we are also talking about, a very ambitious target, 1.5% a year. This debate, which will very soon end in March 2018, which should have completed the 2030 National Printing Plans, the quantitative strategic objectives to be implemented, the individual policies in each area, the national planning of the country, which we hope will be completed in the planned timetable by the Commission, will clarify just a step forward and the quantitative objectives and how we achieve them. In this respect, we are at a key point. Until now and before the national planning is completed, we have taken a number of measures to boost RES production. Let me remind you first of all of the data. Today, they are produced by photovoltaics - since we have focused on the question, the total installed power of the photovoltaic power stations in the country today - two thousand two thousand two hundred thirty megawatts, overcoming the 2010 target, for installation by 2020, two thousand megabots. So we are a little above the limit that we set as the target for 2020. In addition, under Law 4414/2016, we established a new electricity generation support scheme from RES modules, including photovoltaics, which is valid from 1-1-2016. In addition, we made the ministerial decision last May for the first time, which established the framework for the implementation of virtual energy netting. First of all, for farmers, we are extending it and extending it to all private enterprises in the public sector. This enables someone to install a photovoltaic system in their consumption facilities. This initiative will be extended - I repeat - with new initiatives such as virtual energy netting in the near future. The third is the forthcoming bill, which has been completed and passed by CENE etc. for energy communities. Energy communities will open up another dynamic. So far, as you know, wind parks are primarily larger businesses, while photovoltaics are small and medium-sized enterprises that are involved in this sector. However, with the energy communities we will open the way to local communities, private individuals, local government agencies and other legal persons to develop investment projects in the RES sectors exclusively, to produce their own energy through an association of natural persons, OTAs and businesses, or small businesses only, which will meet the needs they have for consumption and, at the same time, they will also be able to sell part of an additional part, which will produce and be above their needs. We are therefore opening up a new area, which we expect will mobilise local communities and create a huge potential for renewable energy. In conclusion, I would also like to refer to the proposal by GREENPEACE of Greece, with which we have opened a dialogue and found it extremely useful, in order to implement a 10-year solar energy support programme of about two thousand eight hundred kilowatts in about three hundred households, poor households. That is to say, we will enable those who do not have the financial capacity to engage in the production of their own energy, and we will find a way with a specific programme to enable poorer social groups to participate in this transformation of energy through an RES. We will support this. When this programme is ready - we repeat that we are in dialogue with GREENPEACE - we will be able to make it known.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u97	Mr. Papachristopoulos, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u98	I am positively surprised, Minister. I actually expected a lot less than you said. I'm very pleased. For me that is the meaning of parliamentary scrutiny, to see what we are doing. I just want to remind you - I am sure you know - that recently this hurricane 'Maria' in Puerto Rico destroyed nearly 90% of the energy. And right now the governor asks its millionaire "TESLA", Ellon Mask, to make up for what? With photovoltaics. I would also like to say this - and perhaps I do not have good information - if this fuel-fuelled power station, which would cost Rhodes 180 million - because I know you mentioned GREENPEACE, too - will be done because I think it is wrong. Finally, I would like to say the word 'innovation' and the word 'new technologies' in many of them are theoretical. Not to me. And I've lived it in too many bills lately, where the concept of the electronic building seems to be syscritic. The same is true of the Electronic Waste Register, with the Electronic Establishment of a Stage in a Business, with Electronic Governance, e-justice, e-residence, plastic money, etc. And right now, my question has that meaning, Minister. I believe that it is an innovation which, in order to move on, one must first understand it. And I am glad, honestly, with your answer, because you have not only understood it, but I see that you are almost promoting it. I will be here and I do not hide from you that I will ask again a question, to see where we are, because I believe - and disprove me, if you will - that growth is not coming in words, but in concrete actions. And I think one of these is this innovation, which was kind of misunderstood at first. Somewhere we heard some, they put some photovoltaics on, they didn't win etc. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, When the world's largest country is well aware that it covers half of its energy needs with the sun! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, too. I would like to ask the Minister to take into account both the islands and the specificities of energy planning, because they really have specific features. And I'm sure you'll consider it. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u100	I would like to highlight in the most characteristic way what Mr Papachristopoulos says, that in 2017 he will remain in history, because it is the first year that the additional energy entered worldwide in the world, at 55%, is from RES. We are not talking about utopia, but about data: 55% of new power stations, new energy, now produced in the world, namely the majority, for the first time comes from RES. So we're talking about a dynamic, which is obviously the future. That's where we'll move. It is also economically viable now, that it is not economically viable, that it is expensive, etc. Now, with new data and technological innovations, this is reality and the sooner we move there, the better for everyone. To add something to the islands. Obviously, there is one issue, because production of energy using oil is definitely obsolete. The answer to the problems of the islands is twofold: the first is the question of the connections between the islands. In 2018, the programme ‘CYCLADEs I’ will be completed and will follow the programme ‘CYCLADEs II’ by 2020. There is the double interconnection between Crete in 2020 and 2023. We must in 2021, based on the European directive, withdraw the production units in Crete, which are polluting. So the large complexes of the islands are found with the connections and at the same time we have started to legislate on supporting the three islands, which have ready-made systems, Ai Stratis, Ikaria and Tilos, to go to RES with autonomous systems. At the same time, we are preparing a second initiative, which was ratified in Chania, where the Prime Minister attended, a joint initiative that we have with the Committee on Energy, for autonomous systems on the islands. It is a new initiative, with new money and new opportunities for the islands in Greece that are not, nor is it planned to be, interconnected, to be able to promote autonomous RES systems, in order for these islands to make the transition, to have enough energy and to be environmentally friendly. So we're going to start this initiative. We are now planning the first six islands to be included in this programme, and that is the direction we are going to follow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, too. Last is the second with number 192/30-10-2017 a top question for second cycle (B) from the Independent MEP II Piraeus Mr.Theodoras Megalonou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy on “Red”, despite the assurances of the Minister of Shipping. The Secretary of State for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, Mr Santorinios, will answer. Please, Mrs. Big Economics, you have the reason to develop the question for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the shipwreck of "Agia ZONIS 2" created a huge oil spill, as you informed us at the Ministry. You just lowered the extent of the problem in the first few days. In fact, the Minister said lightly the heart, 'Clympade fearless', without taking any action, 'Don't be afraid'. Then, when the PPE came on the day of the Committee on the Environment, he said, "I will answer you once I have sampled". Now he gave the evidence and he's a catapult. There are many micrograms of hydrocarbons. If you remember, I also asked the Ministry a question to give me the claim, i.e. the full insurance company. Unfortunately, you gave me what the master of port has given me, the certificates. It is not the complete insurance policy of the shipowner with the insurance company. There are, therefore, data that are very serious, such as how the affected areas or the civil responsibility it has over all shops will be compensated. There are shops that have been hurt. I've turned all over Piraeus, all the coastline, the hotels, Salamis. They're dead. In the stores that were fish taverns, their turnover has fallen by 60% to 80%. Fish auctions, fish shops have asked to reduce VAT by 13%. Same goes for the Aegina club. I'm telling you quick, because I don't remember them. I have here the MEP's measurable version. Here I have counts again. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm sorry, there's too much. I'll testify all this. Here's my question, which says exactly what I was asking for from the Ministry of Shipping and what you sent me. It speaks of this compensation to be granted by the international convention, which applies to all states. It is the compensation given for oil spills from the IOPC Fund to third parties. But for civil responsibility, he had no security. If another ship were to fall on it, or if a bather were injured or anything, who would pay them? Who's gonna pay the civil liability, the shops that will be closed? Now you have made a fund that, as you say, works since 2 November, since yesterday. They should, however, testify to evidence, financial situations. What financial statements will the shops submit? The tick's down. The fishermen will say, 'We have destroyed our nets.' What will the storekeepers testify to? No one's shopping in the fish shop. What are they going to testify for? Can you answer me? I'm waiting for your answers. I'm going to go on in my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u103	Please, Mr. Secretary, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr President. It seems that the title at least of your question, Ms. Big Economics, is very relevant to the headlines of the newspaper "TANS" and it seems that from there you have been informed of these prices you are saying. Because, if you really have the measurements of the Hellenic Republic, Mrs. Megalo-Economist, what is currently in existence for the regions delivered, is that in the Aegean Naval Command, on the rocky coast, oil is not detected on 23 October. Naval Testing School is not detected since October 10th. In the cove Aphrodite is six party seven micrograms per litre, when the limit - to remind you - is 20 micrograms per litre. In Fretty, they're not detecting. The Naval Group of Greece is two micrograms per litre. Shall we go down to Floisvo, where the report said it had 100 micrograms per litre? On October 23, he had a fourteen party a microgram per litre, while on the beach in Eden he said he was not detectable. Let's go a little further, to the premises of ERCE, where he had two parties five micrograms per litre. May I remind you that in the first few days he was getting water from the deep under a provision that we had created? Let's go a little further, to the fourth Marina of Glyfada, where it won't be detected. You are also talking about the Great Crab and the Voula Asclipio. The Voula Asclipio is not detected since the 3rd of October and the Grand Kavouri is two micrograms per litre since October 3rd again. So where is he detected? It is detected where decontamination operations were carried out, such as Glyfada. In fact, if you have all the report by EMPH, Mrs Megalo-Economics, you can read, beyond the tables, and what the PPE's report says. So the PPE report says that we cannot assess these results, because they are simply decontamination work. In fact, since you are putting the issue of Saronics, I would like to tell you that I have here a study of the last five years with the average oilseeds in Saronicus, which I will testify to. So the average oil price in Saronico is eight micrograms per litre. This is a study of PPE for the last five years, before the shipwreck. If you look at the report from the PPE - which I will also present to you to have it completed, because you were rather wrongly informed - in open Saronics no price is detected over six party eight micrograms per litre. So, Mrs. Big Economics, it's good when you have a report to read it all out. If you take half of the NSAs, ask them to give it to you all. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Mr President, I would like a bit of your tolerance because many issues have been raised. I will now concentrate on what you have said about compensation. I would therefore like to tell you that the capital of the insurance shipowner has already been established with EUR 5.4 million at the National Bank of Greece and is expected to be appointed by the Piraeus Court to appoint the liquidator. IOPC FUND will give the extra to these civil allowances. Ms. Big Economics, IOPC FUND's office is first established in Greece and operates since yesterday in Piraeus. All fishermen and small and medium-sized and merchants will be able to go there to testify in order to obtain compensation. In fact, the Director-General of the IOPC FUND on the Management Board recommended that the victims of this incident be immediately repaid, beyond bureaucracy. It is therefore our government which, after consulting the IOPC FUND and having had enough shipwrecks in Greece, made it the first time a compensation office. For in all the previous shipwrecks, Ms. Megalonikou, no small and medium-sized was compensated, neither in Salamis nor in Megaras, nor in Aegina nor in Epidaurus. You know very well that both at the A1 shipwreck and at the SLOPS shipwreck were many beaches that were hit. No one was compensated. For the first time this procedure is done and they will be compensated. You ask me: “How will they be compensated? Since they are financial situations?’ Uh, how will they be compensated, Ms. Big housekeeper? If you see what a turnover he did last October this shop and the cigarette this October, it seems somehow that there is a differentiation. How will the other guy give you money? Just because you say you have a problem? You must somehow prove the amount of damage you have. Nobody said they wouldn't be paid. But they have to prove it. That makes sense, and I don't think you disagree with that. I've got more to tell you, but I'll tell my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u105	Please, Mr. Big Economics, you have the floor for three minutes, if you would like to be seconded.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u106	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order. I'm gonna need some more time. We have to fight! We're islanders! Minister, first we didn't talk about the bottom. I forgot to ask. It's a very serious matter. We're not talking about the surface measurements. There's no problem. The bottom has the problem. It will be covered by the sand and will take too many years to clean it up. There's the big problem. I told you about it at the Ministry. I was working on shipping. The bottom, unfortunately, has a very big problem, and that's where the difficult measurements are. It'll take years to get cleaned up. It's very difficult. Washing the pebbles and the bracelets doesn't do anything. The measurements I have. I don't know if they've lied. I've got the measurements of ETA. Here's the real thing. I'll testify everything. It's too much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u107	Don't get tired. You don't have to. I got them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u108	I want to ask you something else. Has he been seized by a prosecutor? Has the file gone to the prosecutor's office? I want it. I want you to tell me if he's been seized. I want you to tell me how this sudden shipwreck happened. I want the whole file. I've also requested the insurance company. I want it. Do I have a right to take it? I'm asking you. I have no right only to the Department of Defense and the Department of Foreign Affairs. I want it. I am not satisfied with what you have given me, Minister. I want them. Am I a congressman? I represent the Greek Parliament? I want the full insurance office and the file he went to the D.A.'s office. Do I have a right to take them? Say I don't. I'm just asking you. Well, I'm interested in cleaning the bottom. You gave a second certificate to move. It was the first time in August. Why did you give him a second certificate to move? And he had too many damages...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u109	What were the damages?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u110	I'll tell you what his damage was. I'll let you know. Extension of licences. It had been an inspection. He had a problem keeping the bridge. He had a problem with the rope. Was that corrected when he was given a second extension? The certificate expired on August 6th. You gave him a second renewal - only one - for 24 September. The ship's sinking on September 10th. Give me all these explanations. Let me know if the D.A. has been seized. We're going to the material damage to the third parties. I want to see the insurance office. Was he across the street with the third parties? What if the crew hit in it? Let go of the oil. Did he have civil responsibility? If he hit the crew, if he fell on another ship, who would compensate it? The international organisation for the oil spill? I know the law was from '92. The other governments hadn't made offices. I'm not counting on the other governments. You are a new government and you must correct the bad texts.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u111	We're doing it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u112	Good. You made the office. Good for you. Congratulations on that. But that law was from '92, and from ahead. Since 1992 it has been compulsory. The previous governments had not done so. They hadn't done it. Congratulations for doing so. I don't doubt it. But what's going on? Now how can you clean the bottom? We need to remember the ad, "Lie down, wipe out, are you done?" We're gonna clean the bracelets? What's going on in the bottom? The plankton's gonna be destroyed. Fish smells like oil. Can I tell you something, Minister? The whole beach in Kavouri has the largest hotels. I went and did an investigation. The largest hotels are waiting for winter swimmers. They have tourism all winter. They won't close the hotels on the beach. Go see how many cancellations will be made and give solutions. Also, who will give the certificate that they can swim fearlessly? Will you give it to the Ministry of Shipping or the Ministry of Health? Get Mr. Polakis and Mr. Blondie to sign that there's no problem. However, I, my grandchildren who live in Lagonissi, do not let them bathe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u113	The Ministry of Health, Ms. Megalo-Economics, for me to intervene too, because it is the responsibility. Minister, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u114	Well, Mrs. Big Economics, you've raised a lot of issues, and I think you're wrong not with the conversation, but with the regions, because the ban on swimming, as you know, is up to Glyfada. He's not in the Great Crab. There is no ban on swimming in the Great Crab and Lagonisi. Please at least help these areas. Don't say such things.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u115	That's what the PPE says.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u116	What do you think? The Confederacy, Mrs. Big Economics, says - I told you - two micrograms per litre on November 3rd.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u117	It says here that a hundred and thirty-nine grams was counting...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u118	Mrs. Big Economics, here's the reports. It's the official reports.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u119	Mrs. Big Brother, please, don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u120	Let's go down. You're talking about the insurance office. I told you that the capital was founded at the National Bank of Greece and that the money, the 5.4 million at the National Bank of Greece, had been deposited. If it had no civil liability, would the capital have been established? What are you talking about? You know the process very well. So he obviously has a bourgeois responsibility. That's where you're talking about the bottom. We've been looking for an inch to the entire bottom. We've found the submerged ones. So I'm telling you...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u121	I'm talking about oil, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u122	The submerged oil, Mrs. Big housekeeper. In the Glyfada area everything you see with green was and was cleaned, everything you see in red will be cleaned in the next few days. At Argyroupolis - Alimos - Argyroupolis - Greece - what you see with green has been cleaned, except for a piece in Agios Alexandros. In the Piraeus everything you see with green is cleaned up. I'll testify the relevant photographs for the Minutes. The bottom is cleaned. A representative from the European Union has also come, Mr Amato, who is very well aware of these incidents and has told us that immersed mineral oils will only find in front of sandy areas and in a small depth. We've spotted them. The biggest problem is in Salamis, which is still localized and is currently being cleaned up. So I will tell you that we are expecting the cleansing process to be completed both on the seabed and on the beaches at the latest in mid-November. And not just that. You know very well, Mrs. Big Economics, that there are twenty-six shipwrecks in Piraeus and twenty-eight shipwrecks in Elefsina. Yesterday the plan to build the shipwreck of "AYIA ZONI 2" was tabled and by the end of the month "AYIA ZONI 2" will not pollute our sea, it will have come out, it will be retracted. This is for the first time, Ms. Big housekeeper, because we don't clean superficially, spray - wipe - you're done. We also clean up the causes of the problems and the beaches, so that the shops can function and people can bathe. I repeat, in order to obtain the permission, the Ministry of Health has taken the measurements and we expect the Ministry of Health to lift the bathing ban, because it is not our responsibility. So, Mrs. Big Economics, don't use any publications. The measurements of PPE are here, I'll give them to you to read them. More measurements were made yesterday. Essentially, depollution has been completed in Riviera, Attica. It has only been left in Agios Alexandros and a small piece in PIKPA to Glyfada, between Glyfada and Vouliagmenos. Two pieces left and Salamis left. By the middle of the month, we'll be done with this too. From there on, what seems to be - as I told you before - is that there are no higher prices than the ones that existed before the shipwreck in Saronic. I'll testify everything and it's at your disposal to see it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, too. After the statement by the Secretary of State, the topical and urgent debate has been concluded. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-03-S1-commons.u124	With the consent of the House at 13.19 p.m. the sitting for the next Monday, November 6, 2017, at 18.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent questions.
