ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Monday 8 May 2017. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question raised by Mr Georgios Vlachos with regard to the proposals - requests from the Mediterranean municipalities in view of the consultation on the renewal of the Athens International Airport Convention "Eleftherios Venizelos" with the Greek State for the period 2025-2055. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under No 777/28-4-2017, a topical question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: 'to detached our fifty thousand under pension citizens of OAU and OGA who are today without income and without pension'. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The timely question by MP Florina of New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Antoniadis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy regarding the overall and not partial relocation of the Florina Prefecture of Achlada. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Ilias Panagiotaraou to the Minister of the Interior regarding the resilience of Turkish agents and their representatives in Thrace. 3. The Question No 552/3-2017 by Z' Vice President of the Parliament and Mr Spyridon Lykoudis to the Minister of Health about the degraded state of health. 4. The Question No 596/13-3-2017 by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Helen Zarulia to the Foreign Minister on the subject: "The World Bank "characterizes" the Aegean in Turkey". 5. The question by No 479/14-2-2017, by Evia MP of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Michou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, about the burden of marine ecosystems in the Mediterranean with radioactive waste. 6. Eleni Zaroulia to the Minister of the Interior on the subject: "The Municipality of Kavala legalises the pseudos in a tourist exhibition in Constantinople". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The Question No 571/7-3-2017 by the Independent MEP Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Economy and Development about the beer case and whether there are a jury in the Competition Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The sixth question will be discussed under number 752/25-4-2017, the second question of the Athens Parliamentary I of the Communist Party of Greece, Liana Kanelli, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the processing plant for the meat by-products of Agios Theodores Lechains Ilias. Mrs Canelli's question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Socrates Famelos. Mrs. Kanelle, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it's morning. It's 10:00 an hour. How can I begin to describe exactly what is happening in Lehanos right now and which, unfortunately, has been certified by regional and prefecture actions? And not just certified. All the claims included - and if you need a lot more, since we are in the time of technology, I have a flash drive, if you can bear to look at it - is what happens in Lehanos: meat by-products. So how do you do it? Slaughterhouse! I will not talk about the general situation in the country. In 2011 the Italians went to Lehana to make an investment, an investment that has literally killed the region. They didn't build their own biological cleansing and go side by side to known, real-time, solar industrial slaughterhouses. Exposed intestines and juicy from the animal intestines emit poison boots within a radius of miles. They're throwing in the stream of Brodou. They infect the horizon. They sleep and wake up with an index of discontent in terms of malaise - and it is not only discontent, it is what causes health - for years measured by the relevant services. The inhabitants of what they could do legally, practically, essentially, morally, procedurally, have done so. They've been in court. They've made decisions. Fines have been made. There have been shortcomings and a thousand two. And let's say that someone does the wrong thing, that someone has a strong tooth in the area, and that some will be cut - and some will allegedly - for two, three, four, five, ten, twenty-nine jobs under these conditions, and the rest of them exist! A lid comes the story to go to the central urban biological cleansing. What urban biological cleansing can be lifted is determined by a multitude of - even so many of you appreciated in the European Union! - Regulations. It is special the way in which animal waste from slaughterhouses can be disposed of to get rid of it in urban waste water in a region. And that's not enough - I don't have time, and I'm necessarily going to my dentistry - but the certification comes, which they give as permission to make it easier not to make the investment, not to become a private special cleansing there - as the person who makes the money by slaughtering the animals - to get rid of the residents. So it goes beyond the limits of human endurance. And from 2011 to 2017 is six years. And between us, none of us can live a half an hour over a pit that opens up. Imagine the exploding death - because this is the smell and I have no other way to describe it - the rotten meat and waste water in summer, winter, with children, schools and people working in the countryside and staying open, because they obviously have no money for air conditioning. The state must intervene immediately. The licence of the company operating under these circumstances should have been withdrawn long ago. And do not refer to me in the last decision, because the last decision, which I have before me, vindicates everything I tell you and has a date just 15 days ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u3	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u4	What decision are you referring to?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u5	I'm sorry to surprise you. I was surprised, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u6	I have them, but I don't know who you're talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u7	I am talking about the decision of 23 April - just half a month ago - which says they will abolish this dreadful thing they already have, and they will be throwing it directly into urban wastewater. That is where we have problems both in finding out and in permission. You have to do something, because then it will be too late for people's health.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u8	I understand what you mean. I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u9	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u10	Mrs Kanelle, thank you very much for the initiative you have taken to discuss this issue. I think he'll light up a lot of things. It is a real problem, a major environmental problem, which has from time to time employed both the state and the region and the municipality and the inhabitants. I know that residents have been mobilized. Your question gave me the opportunity to look for a little bit of the social history of the region and I know that you have been informed, as has Mr. Koutsuba. And I must say that other fellow Members have asked questions. It is a real problem and, in fact, there is also a municipal council decision calling for a number of things, up to the Prime Minister's information. My typical answer - but I will not stay in this - is that environmental licensing is the responsibility of the decentralised administration of Western Greece and the Ionian Islands, while authorisation and supervision - so control - is the responsibility of the Region of Western Greece. In fact, your question has given us an opportunity and I have already contacted the regional director on this matter three times. I think even this can help in the local case. But let us see what the essence of this operation is. Of course, I'll say a lot in my denture. This company has received four different amended environmental approvals. This already raises a question for me. The first decision - approval of environmental conditions was on 21-5-2013.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u11	I know.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u12	He then changed on 28-1-2015 and then on 15-6-2016. The same day I see your question in the protocol on 25 April, that is, I see that decentralised administration is reintroducing environmental conditions. What is going on in these amendments? At first she had permission to do so in the adjacent business, then she got permission to do her own biological - but she never did her own biological - and in the last - on the same day as your question - she licenses environmentally available to the municipality. So until the date it was issued, they typically could not go to the neighbouring municipality because it did not have environmental approval - you refer to it in your text - which was issued by the decentralised administration on 25 April. Is there, however, - will you allow me to say the typical elements of the essential research we have done and will we also discuss the substance - from the state side of parallel control? You will ask: 'What is the state doing? All right, the decentralised administration and the region....’. The state, therefore, has done four checks and imposed fines. And that's what I have to announce.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u13	I got these.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u14	You don't have it all because some of it was only signed a few days ago. On 23-1-2015, therefore, there is a fine quite large, which has been imposed because the thermal inactivation plant did not operate, there was no monitoring of the quality of liquid waste and there was no legitimate management of liquid waste as well as distinct product storage sites. The fine imposed by the state, I mean by the Ministry and the Environment Inspectors' Body, was EUR 29,000. On 26 April - one day after your question - I personally have signed a new fine with Mr Stathakis. It has nothing to do with your question, because the checksheet was in March and you realize that she couldn't sign a fine in one day. There was already a check that started in November 2015, a new one, our one, but in which neither the conclusion nor the results were announced. Now, however, they can be announced. So for the uncontrolled disposal of solid waste - violation of the first - of the burning of solid materials, the non-legal storage of slaughter by-products and the non-legal management of liquid waste - I can confirm that there was no legal management of liquid waste - a new fine of EUR 43.350 was imposed on the company one day after your question was submitted. The permit was therefore the one from the decentralised administration and the region. And on the side of the state - I typically inform you and I will come to the second part of what we do from now on - there have been two major fines, the latter, from us signed, amounting to 43,350 euros. I'll go on later, Mrs. Canelley.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u15	Good, Minister. Here, Mrs. Canelle, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. On the 23rd of the month, in the middle of nothing, when we ask questions - I open a parentheses and say that you know very well that the JRC questions to Ministers for impression or for micro-political reasons have never done -...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u17	That was an essential question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u18	I answer that there are no mistaken impressions, no intentions at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u19	I said that from the outset, your question is essential.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u20	Beyond the substance of the question, do you think that I would have come without anyone interested in this matter, plus the obscure efforts of the people, the inhabitants of the region and the people - I am not afraid of the word - for all that you say to me? So let's agree one thing. Forty-three, one hundred three, two hundred million as a fine. First of all, there is a vindication today: it is heard from here, from Parliament, that what people are ravaged from despair in Lehana and the surrounding area is a reality, it is not their idea. Because they have been confronted with articles and with propaganda and with micro-policy, which says they are mad, and they can smell it on their own. Secondly, someone has a tooth, Minister. Chill out! It has a tooth in the mechanism and it ensures environmental amendments as legal procedures. And this tooth will come out one way or another, because otherwise people will be chasing and sleeping above the scent of rotten meat, of fat. Anyone who hasn't smelled a body, rotted flesh, doesn't know what we're talking about. It goes beyond both endurance and patience and science. And it comes on 23, 24, one day before you impose the fine, and it's posted in the "DENMARK" - okay, I was yesterday, the first time I found it, because it was deliberately posted late - notice what: "The waste water will be stored in a sixty cubic tank and according to the assurance of the Amalada biological, from there it will be channeled to the treatment plant, supplemented with cargo, if they comply with the specifications." Be careful, a decision is posted which says they will be taken to Amalada's biological, if the specifications, the very ones who have made the incomplete checks, have accepted the amendments. That's the one. In second, take a closer look, please. In the same decision - if you have it in front of you - it says 'BOD5 and COD8102'. Well, after knowing why I tell you to tell them that they'll fall into Amaliada's biological, urban, eight thousand hundred and two units - these are microbes, I'm telling you, roughly to get together and to understand the world - when it comes to urban biological cleansing, it's a thousand five hundred. They come and confess they'll fire into the urban biological cleansing of Amaliad seven times over what biological cleansing can withstand. And that's a solution, that's growth, this is business investment, it's slaughterhouses legally, it's a modern country, it's a European perspective! What the hell is that investment? Who are those Italians who came here to slaughter together with the animals and the inhabitants of the region? I have nothing else to say to you, when they say to them alone - and they are officially up in the 'DENMARK' - that there will be urban biological cleansing of eight times as many germs as it may be. Because what's going in there is the zombie from the guts and melted meats. That's it. I have no other way to say it. I'm sick of mentioning it here. But saying it's a very little torment. Get into the position of local residents, farmers, children, women, old people. As much as you seal the house, this smell that is equivalent to a smell of death passes in. These people are sleeping and waking up five years with this story. And someone makes money. That's a tooth! And believe me, it's not a tooth. It's the dragon, the capitalist! The whole dragon, who chews bodies in the area. And these are the people who live like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u21	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, let me make a clarification unrelated to the unit and the area. Technology and administration have a way of solving environmental problems, of course, if the necessary costs are invested and there is the necessary staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u23	I couldn't agree more.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u24	I do not want there to be any idea that we cannot do a proper unit anywhere in Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u25	Not at all. We agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u26	I say this, first of all, so that there are no removals and false impressions. I'd like to tell you that I had contact with the district chief. You tell me one or three phones means nothing. However, in the document which has now been sent to the region, on account of the circumstances of the environmental infringement, the region is asked to check the authorisation, because the law allows it. And we're writing that now. In other words, we have sent a document from the Ministry, together with the fine in the region, which says: "When there are problems of environmental degradation or unforeseen effects, then the competent body..." - the region in question - "... and the decentralised, which imposed environmental conditions can impose additional, alter the initials and impose even temporary bans on operation until the environmental problem is stopped". So, now, with a fine from the state and an infringement certificate, the documents have left to the district manager, from whom I was asked to recheck - orally on account of your question - the authorisations. Because, the licenses cannot have come out in advance for an environmental license that, as you can see,...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u27	As a matter of fact, ask him to check, not the permits. The reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u28	Let me tell you why there is a formal basis. The licence was issued on 25 April, and you know that the licence has been issued since December. That also has a formal issue. It's not just the essential thing. At the same time, on the basis of the infringement, we called for modified environmental conditions and restrictive conditions to be imposed on the operation of the undertaking. He's in charge. A conclusion may also come, Mrs Canelley, and I understand that the state may have to retain certain responsibilities - to see it legislativeally, that is - when, that is, we do not interfere in the operation of undertakings which have environmental infringements, the state also has competence at the A2 level licensing stage. Why have we decided that it is the responsibility of the decentralised and the region, but what does the state do when it finds that everything needs to be done is not implemented?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u29	He's taking it where he is in public administration. And it's your responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u30	I think, first of all, that with the fines, with the statement of infringement and the order of inspection of the company, which we have done again, together with the deportation systems, which you propose - and we will also ask the region to be placed, not only by the company - we can use today's debate to make a significant change. Because, in fact, the waste water treatment plant of the Municipality of Helida has a limit of 500mg/L, not 1500mg/L. Maybe it was wrong. Solid has 1500mg/L. It has BOD 500mg/L. I see it right here in front of me. It has BOD 500mg/L and COD 1000mg/L. It's different. While the biological load from meat processing may be - and it must be - much more.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u31	It's 8000mg/L! They call it their own.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u32	I see the numbers here. Of course, typically empty is only washing water. But we're sure that's not all. To really talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u33	Time horizon, give me before the zests tighten.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u34	I therefore tell you that we have already contacted the region on operating and environmental control issues. There will also be verification of the legality of environmental authorisations that came out after your question. Because on the same day, after your question, we imposed a fine, which must be taken to change environmental licensing. It is not possible to renew environmental licensing when the State imposes a fine for an environmental infringement. That's in accordance with the law and we'll do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u35	That's good.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Before continuing with the next time-consuming questions, let me make two announcements. The Member, George Stylos, shall request permission from a short-day absence abroad from 8 May to 12 May 2017. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u37	The House therefore approved the requested permission. In addition, the Member, Mr Michael Jellonis, is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad from 6 May to 10 May 2017. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u38	The House therefore approved the requested permission. We will continue with the first with the number 779/2-5-2017 topical question of the first cycle of the Athens MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nikolaos Xydakis to the Minister of Culture and Sports, on the online ticket to museums and archaeological sites. The Minister for Culture and Sport will answer Mr. Mr. Xydakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u39	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, there is an organization in the Ministry of Culture, the Archaeological Resources Fund. Of course you know him, you have been informed and proceed with the work. In the opinion of many people who have passed through the Ministry, executives and politicians, it is the steam engine, the locomotive of the machine called "culturalism". It is an organization that can produce the wealth needed to maintain almost all the cultural activities of the Ministry. Unfortunately, for many decades, it has been maintained in a state of organisation, a culture of the 1970s, when it was founded as a legal person under public law. It is - I will say with a very thick expression - a corpse that is maintained in this situation to repudiate it by some diligent people and not to benefit the Greek culture and the Greek people. As of January 2015, taken by the first government of Tsipras and during the second government, several important steps were taken towards a fundamental restructuring of this organisation and for the performance of this large production machine for the benefit of the Greek public and Greek people. One of them was the online ticket, a streamlining of the activities of museums and archaeological sites. A first move, which we made in first governance, was to adjust tickets to levels similar to those of competing neighbouring countries, Italy and Turkey, in which we studied what tickets they apply. We were half as much as the competitors. The first result was having more than doubled revenue in a year. However, we have a big hole. By studying the data of the Hellenic Statistical Authority for the visits, compared with 2014, 2015 and 2016, it is at your disposal, you know -, you will realize that while we had a reduction of visitors last year, we had a hyperconscious, 27% increase in 'free riders', in free tickets. This whole thing means that either there is a machine that produces illegal visitors, that is to say, they enter tourists, organised groups without paying a ticket - and there are many indications on the market about it - and, secondly, there is no control at the entrance of visitors, museums and archaeological sites. The online ticket, in our opinion and all the people of the market, would be the most decisive way of controlling this phenomenon and multiplying also those who want to pay a ticket, because all possibilities will be opened online by electronic means, with credit cards, with PayPal. As I know that action has been taken, I would ask you to inform the House and the Greek people at which point we are, because I think that after two years it is now urgent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u40	The Minister, Ms. Connordos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Xydakis, I would also like to thank you for this question, because we have the opportunity to clarify a number of issues relating to electronic ticketing, because, as you said, we are indeed constantly following on from the actions to complete this important tool that, as you said, is very important to control all these phenomena and to enter a new season of ticketing in the archaeological sites. However, it is quite a complex issue, which requires the installation of an integrated operational resource management system, the so-called ERP (Erprise Resource Planning), as an electronic platform combining the management, monitoring and control of the entire financial package by applying an appropriate accounting plan. In this way visitors are facilitated on the one hand and audits are carried out. It is not enough to place an electronic ticket. We must also have all the infrastructure that can support it. You are aware of the issues very well, but it may be necessary to keep people informed. As you said, the purchase and installation of an electronic ticket, e-ticketing, piloting in the Acropolis and in the surrounding areas where the single ticket is in force was prioritised. The TAP then held a tender using the urgency procedure, but was barren because the contents of the file were incomplete. A sponsorship for the online ticket was then obtained, with the parallel benefit of a shortening of the time of the public tender. The capital control period followed, thus the expected delay in the procedure. Then, at the beginning of Mr Baltas’s term of office and during cooperation with the sponsor, it was found that the computerised ticket cannot be supported by the in-service two accounting packages used by the TAP because it was not compatible with each other and, moreover, there was a shortage of qualified IT personnel to be able to become operational. At the end of 2015, the solution chosen was the need to supply - following a tender - an integrated system for the management of operational resources, the ERP, as I said, for the operation of the accounting system. Deficiencies and guidelines for the reorganisation of the accounts by selecting the most appropriate ERP system were assigned to an advisory company after approval by the Court of Auditors to overcome the difficulties. The initially secured sponsorship of the online ticket could not include the retrospective need to supply the unforeseen ERP. However, a second donor, who in full coordination with the first, was given a full study leading to the specifications of the ERP, compatible with the electronic ticket and the opening of a tendering procedure for its purchase, in order to follow the procurement of the electronic ticket by the first donor. It is quite a complex matter, but it needed concerted efforts. We are pleased to say that the competitions are at the final stage and the contractors who will emerge within the month will be announced by the two donors at the same time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Xydakis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u43	Madam Minister, thank you for the information, but I will return to the political and economic importance of the matter. You should understand that since the 55 million receipts of 2015, in 2016 we went to 85 million only by tickets, only by increasing tickets. I will tell you, however, a number of shocking events described in ELSTAT's figures for the year: we have had a 18% reduction and we have had an increase in free riders, free tickets, 27%, that is, half a million more free tickets. We must have a sure answer here in this House, but also before the Greek people, because we have more than half a million 'free riders'. Who steals the Greek public if they steal it? I cannot imagine it because we have the figures for the summer of 2015, the difficult summer with the Capital Controls, which had been resolved at the time in the groups with operatives, with promises, and that was all collected. We had a 40% increase in the Acropolis rock in July. We don't have schools, we don't have students in July. There's a huge hole in there. Some are systematically resorting to large archaeological sites, using free tickets for large tourist groups. That is what we must have a proper response in this Chamber. A second theme, which is in your hands: TAP is a heavy "old" and "sapic" organization. There is a restructuring agency ready from last year. The commitment of the first government of Tsipras was that by autumn 2015 a new organisation would have been prepared. The organization's ready. Why don't you move on? To be fully restructured. All the technical elements you tell me are secondary if we have an organisation that does not have the expertise, the powers and the staff to implement them. Is the agency ready? When will it be submitted? Get a presidential decree to renew this critical but semi-death organism. Critical for the existence of Greek culture as a living organisation producing wealth, jobs and self-confidence to the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr. Xydakis. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u45	The passivity of tickets or non-payers is known, which often operate in archaeological sites. It's been years since this pathogen. We know the symptoms, we know the results. You are quite right that there is a large proportion of citizens, which enters the archaeological sites without paying. Some of them are agreed. A large number of free entrys are agreed. This is a social issue, which we are examining and reviewing, because we believe that in some cases this free entry has been excessively used. The issue of illegal entry we believe that using the online ticket will be dealt with and gradually the online ticket will be extended to other archaeological sites after its first application in the first major archaeological sites. We are aware of the organization that has been submitted. We have identified issues that need to be processed. We are in the process of processing and depositing the organization, in order to proceed with and organize exactly the Archaeological Resources Fund, to be able to organise, recruit staff, to be able to be enriched with accountants, with output manufacturers, with the possibility of installing sellers to the sellers. As you know, in 2016 there was a refusal of the archbishops to operate. Thus, the presence of sellers has been reduced and some shops are forced to work. These will be put in place, refined and put into operation with the implementation of the organization. However, there were issues that we had to deal with. And these issues, because they are precisely, as you said, very seriously, we had to look at them very carefully. The Archaeological Resources Fund is the source, it's the Ministry's fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Minister. We enter the first with number 781-2/5/2017 a timely question from the National Museum of Contemporary Art of Athens, New Democracy, Olga Kefaloyannis, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the future of the National Museum of Contemporary Art. Mrs. Kefaliannis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u47	Minister, for many years now we have known that the theme of the National Museum of Contemporary Art has been through many stages of preparation, lengthy procedures, truly difficult and complex situations. Unfortunately, while the building is now ready, no one knows when the permanent collection will be placed on its premises, while the responsible parties are assured that it will be ready by autumn 2017. However, we do not know when its rules of procedure will be adopted and when the museum will be fully served. As you know very well, in order to allocate and absorb the donation of Stavros Niarchos Foundation, which has been withdrawn, certain conditions must be fulfilled, namely the preparation of the rules of procedure and the full staffing of the museum with qualified staff through ASP. Unfortunately since the end of last year since December 6, 2016, when I tabled a simple question to the House, you have not answered and so we do not know exactly what the Ministry of Culture has done. Today we are asking you again for specific answers. People in the field of art, but also in general all Greek citizens, want to know exactly what is happening, what you have done and what is the planning of the Ministry of Culture. Besides, the National Museum of Contemporary Art is an important body that can serve the arts, the culture of our country and be an important attraction for international visitors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Kefaliannis. Madam Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u49	Thank you. I would like to say to you - and I am very pleased about that, because it has been very hard to achieve this result - that the Presidential Decree laying down the rules of operation of the National Museum of Contemporary Art has recently been signed by the Ministry of Finance too. This was the result of numerous consultations between the Ministry of Culture and the General Accounting Office of the State. All the details of the final draft of the Presidential Decree have been drawn up, and we are now happy to say that they are in the Council of State to be checked before the signing by the President of the Republic. With regard to ASAP, after the procedures for the adoption of the Presidential Decree have been successfully completed, the permanent staffing of the Museum through ASP, which we believe will be completed in 2018. However, we do not remain unreal, but with the support of the relevant directorates of the Ministry we have already achieved a small increase in the existing regular staff of the eighteen people of the Museum through the extracts process, with five more people. We are also constantly acting for the further staffing of the Museum with temporary staff to conclude fixed-term contracts. The recruitment of 15 people, of different specialties, with a fixed-term employment relationship of eight months, was approved. Finally, the General Accounting Office of the State is finally to approve the disposal of nineteen persons from the transferred personnel of the repealed Occupational Pensions. So at the moment we have a respected number of staff, which numbered fifty-seven, and so, according to the request of the Museum's Directorate, we can ensure the smooth operation of the Museum in this first phase. Of course, by 2018, as I said, we will continue the enrichment of staff, reaching the eighty-seven people. At the moment we have submitted the necessary information to absorb the donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, some of which were the organization and staff, for the proper functioning of the institution.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u50	Mrs. Kefaliannis, you have the floor for your denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u51	Minister, what you are telling us is extremely encouraging about what we all have as a goal, that is to finally operate the National Museum of Contemporary Art. I'm just wondering why you haven't submitted all this to us and the questions we've asked so far in the House, so that we can get a better update and an image of what the Ministry is doing. I say this because, as I told you, I have submitted the question to you as early as December 2016. We did not come back, leaving some time to you to be informed, as you had just taken over, but I would like to tell you that Parliament's responses to the MPs are good, so that we do not have to come back with up-to-date questions like today. We all obviously know the problems, the time-consuming processes, as we know the great efforts of those who, to a lesser or greater extent, have contributed with their work to taking steps and important work for the National Museum of Contemporary Art. I am sure I know that you know them, and of course your responsibility today, because you are the Minister, is to explain exactly what you have done and what the planning of the Ministry is. I have heard what you said about the rules of procedure that the procedures have already gone ahead, that the details have been settled, that they are in the Council of State. I imagine - and I hope - that you are following this, because it is a very basic prerequisite, both so that we can finally have the EMFF's rules of procedure and because it is one of the two prerequisites set by the Stavros Niarchos Foundation. You told us about the staffing of the Museum. I want you to tell me whether you really believe that, in the procedures that have been carried out so far and the recruitments that have been undertaken so far, the Museum can operate with the specialized scientists and finally whether it will be possible in this way, that is, whether the two prerequisites will be covered, so that the donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation can be enabled. I would like to remind you that it is EUR 3 million and needs to be activated and exploited. I want you to tell us: What is the case with the Museum's veterinary programme, what is the case with the deposit of the second stage of the final museum study? What is the fate of the necessary modifications to the approved musical study? If you can answer us at what stage is the judicial dispute between EMST and the construction company, if the request to the Stavros Niarchos Foundation has been retabled, if there is a plan for the economic viability and operation of the Museum and if there has been any other move on the economic viability of the Museum. Minister, we ask you to proceed rapidly, to do the work you do, and we stress that all of us - and this needs to be understood to you - are the proper, complete functioning of the Museum. We saw that modern art has now been embraced by Greek society. And the specific Museum, which has amazing collections of Greek and foreign creators, can serve with demands of art and culture. Besides, the successful hospitality of part of the international exhibition "Documenta 14" by the National Museum of Contemporary Art shows that Greek citizens are thirsty for contemporary art and it is truly sad that they cannot yet see the content of EMST. Minister, the National Museum of Contemporary Art can form its own special identity, be a pole of attraction for both Greek citizens, who, as long as years are over, become familiar with contemporary art, as well as artists from abroad. On the occasion of the EMS, I would like to suggest that you draw up a coherent strategy for museums, their mode of operation, the qualities of their respective directors and boards. Take responsibility, plan properly and proceed to actions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u52	The Minister for Culture and Sport, Mr Connordos, has the floor for her second-guess.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u53	With regard to the second part of your question to ensure from the Ministry of Sports and Sport the uninterrupted activation of the donation of the "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation, as I mentioned before, staffing progresses steadily and will be completed. Also, the coverage of the museum's operating expenses goes ahead. In addition to staff, therefore, the Ministry will provide the necessary resources to enable the Museum to be viable and operational. An exceptional grant of EUR 200,000 has been lodged to cover the payroll of the fixed-term staff to which I have referred. EUR 1,250,000 has been approved from Public Investment Programs for the actions and activities of the Museum, and in addition, the regular grant of EUR 300,000 will be increased due to precisely the increased staff from the ODP. At the moment, the Museum has made a bright opening with the «Documenta 14». It is a kind of crack test, which proves how much it can meet the needs for the expression of contemporary art and not just. We are on the side of any subject that can arise from either the economic side or the organization, in order to ensure the absorption, the provision of this sponsorship and open its doors - we want to believe in 2017 - to host the permanent collections of the Museum and to be able to constitute an international polo of attraction not only for Greek art but also for its dialogue with international creation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Minister. We continue with the third with number 677/31-3-2017, a topical question from the Parliamentary Drama of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Charas Kefidou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the National Gallery and the cost of delaying the completion of the expansion project. Mrs. Kefalidou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we discussed about a month and a half ago the same subject and then we talked about delaying the completion of the work of the National Gallery, a project that should have been completed and attributed by January 2016. In that timely question you had the opportunity to analyse the whole history of SYRIZA reading, the reasons for project delays, and then I told you that you did not answer me in the key question: How much does this delay cost? How much longer will the Greek citizen pay for the period when the contractor sits, waiting for the services of the Ministry of Culture, who are responsible, to complete the studies - musician and musician, which you in the first of all your interview material on the 1st of March, announced that he is in the award process, that the contest is being prepared. And since I mention it, if there's any newer than this competition, if it's announced, if it's ready, you can give us a picture. To be brief, clear and clear and to make it easier for you to have a direct answer from you: We have a contract dismantling in February 2017, due to the impediment of the Ministry's services. You're answering me that the services are not accepting the contractor's request for dissolution. I would also like to know what economic consequences, in other words, will be borne by the Greek public and, ultimately, by the Greek taxpayer. And please let your answer be made in the context of the legislation governing public procurement, of Law No.3669/2008, which, in Articles 62 to 64, is very clear about how the Greek State handles the procedures: the dissolution of a contract, the cancellation of the contract, the compensation of a contract awarder due to the dissolution of the contract. I would like to ask you, please, very much, to answer me with numbers. And I say this, recalling that whatever the Minister's decision is, this implies compensation for the contractor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u56	The Minister for Culture and Sport has the floor, Mr. Lydia Conniordos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr President. The contractor actually submitted a request to dismantle the contractor. The Ministry of Culture and Sport did not accept it, however, on the grounds that there is still a natural subject of work to be done. In more detail the following operations are pending: in Building A, work on the fitting of glass-ropes, glass-stamps and aluminum frames on the face of the face. In Building C, the metallic spiral construction and, thirdly, the surrounding area had to continue unobtrusively, based on the conventional study, its formation. We also want to point out that the responsible department, in all possible ways and means, has so far provided the contractor with the necessary study updates for the uninterrupted continuation of work. The contraaor shall, at the same time, submit to the contractor a regular protocol for the receipt of obsolete works and accounts for the performance of work, the repayment of which shall be carried out smoothly. There is therefore no question of paying indemnity at present. There will therefore be no additional costs. With regard to the museum study, the cost and work of which are not included in the existing contract, as from 6 April the Board of Directors. the region has taken a decision to cover the full costs of its implementation with EUR 4.60,000. Subsequently, the Board of Directors. The National Gallery recommends today the award of an application of the museum study of its new building. This procedure may already have gone ahead. So I launched the Ministry's services, in cooperation with the district and administration of the National Gallery, so that the Contracting Company has all the additional study data, and it will complete the above mentioned work on the basis of the contract. As a result, the company will not be compensated until the completion of the museum study, but will be paid for the work it completes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Kefalidou, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u59	Minister, I would like to tell you that it is not possible for a contractor to lodge a request to dismantle a contract without any conditions being met. On the basis of the law, therefore, it means that some things are not working. It seems that the contractor has submitted a request for dismantling because, for example, for three months the work had not begun. They were interrupted. Because I spend every day on the spot, I tell you that I notice that there was a very large crane, that it was withdrawn, now there is a smaller one and I see that some work is being done in the surroundings. But that doesn't answer my question. My question is that, once you have in your ministry a request for the dismantling of a contract, whether you accept it or you are talking about canceling the contraction, there are two figures. A number has to do with "what does it mean to the Greek public, I accept the dismantling of a contractor at the request of the contractor?" It's very specific. There's a reward. And 'what does it mean' - always with a number -'stop dismantling a contractor's work, and then the contractor continues his work'? You obviously don't have a good number. I don't mean it personally. In general, the public life of this government, as a whole, does not do well with numbers. You've been divorced by mere arithmetic actions. You are more familiar and practice the creative ambiguity of numbers. 1 and 1 may not do 2, can do 4 and 124, depending on the circumstances! So you claim that the Greek State has paid no more for the contractor's delay due to the fault of the Ministry's services and that the Greek taxpayer has no extra burden due to the compensation you had to pay to the contractor. It is as if you were telling me that Mr Bobola's "ATCOR" - because he is the contractor - has done thanks to the Greek State and does not claim what he is entitled to under the law. And if this has been done, I would like to know who those contractors are doing such favors to a government, and that must also be the case with Parliament and the Greek people. Why, from what the Prime Minister often informs us - very much in his positions, 'the free man died'! So these favors are not free, they are redeemed. After Mr Savvidis' recent interview, the oldest with the best man Mr. Kalogritsa and the oldest ones with the license fiasco of private channels, let me ask you a question: I finally ask you, in addition to the ANELs, who and who is running this place, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u60	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u61	Listen, the fact that the company wants to ensure the continuity of its involvement in the project is clear. It is also clear that it has the right to claim, as it thinks, its interests. However, Article 62(6) of Law 3669/2008 provides that the contraaor is obliged to carry out the work until the dispute has been resolved in accordance with the applicable provisions. We therefore want to remain the continuing involvement of the company in the project. Of course - as I said before - we are working closely and at a pressing rate to speed up the procedures for the completion of the restoration of the building, so that we can hand over a national project on time. There have been a lot of delays. One of the main delays, as you well know, is that water was found under the foundations, which was not anticipated and caused serious delays. The region responded directly to the economic requirements of the museum study. Also, the Board of Directors. The National Gallery assigns the study immediately. And also, the Stavros Niarchos Foundation has already received from us all the necessary safeguards for the relocation and smooth operation of the National Gallery after the completion of its work and the renovation, and we hope that it will proceed to the activation of its donation to complete the work in Buildings B and C of the National Gallery. So we cannot talk about flaws or delays. It's not a matter of numbers. It's a business thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u62	Madam Minister, you're not answering me. I'm asking for a number.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u63	There's no need for the number. I told you these numbers. It's 4.5 million from the periphery...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u64	What does the contractor's compensation cost? Just stuff.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u65	Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u66	There's a difference. We don't agree on that. This difference will be resolved. If the contracting company continues to participate, we believe that this difference will be resolved.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u67	There's a law, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u68	I put the law in your mind.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u69	So he's not compensated?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u70	Mrs. Kefalidou, please. Are you finished, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u71	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u72	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, since they have previously participated in the educational program "Worker of the Republic" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-six students and students and two teachers from the 6th Old Faliro Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The third question of the first cycle of the MP Iraklio of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARK KEGEROGOU to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity will now be discussed, on the need for a direct issue of a circular specifying where the pension is cut (regardless of a fund) due to a rural activity or grant. In this timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr Anastasios Petropoulos. Mr Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it is already five months after 1-1-2017, which ought to have been fully implemented by Law4387 and not all the necessary acts which clarify or define issues relating to the implementation of the law have yet been adopted. We have discussed too many times - it is a fact - this particular issue. I insist, however, because there are issues and you must immediately issue a circular similar to that which you have issued for the OGA pensioners, on what is the case for pensioners of all the funds on the possibility of having an agricultural income, even small, or even a small subsidy, without having the pension cut, and what will then be the case. You have made it clear after the successive debates we have had, but here in Parliament in particular, for young pensioners only - from what you have said - that there will be a severance of pensions in these cases. This has to go with a paper too. And I say it, because these are the days when rights are transferred. It should therefore be clarified so that people can transfer rights. In addition, I would like to inform you that due to the misinterpretation, which has taken place in a previous debate, some of the new pensioners have activated rights and I would like to know whether there could be care for those who activated the rights before the possible issue of a circular, so that they do not have this cut for that year. And, of course, I must tell you that there is also a matter in relation to the ECA contributions. Make it clear which pensioners or which professional workers, civil servants and others have an obligation to pay an ECA on the taxable agricultural income if there are exceptions to this, and why no notification has yet been given to those who have an obligation. Does that mean they're not looking for the money? In other words, they are two issues that are related and for which the request is now'strengthen the circular, issue what is in force, issue an act'. There can be no different normalization in this. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u74	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr President. It's not just you asking me in this House. I have Socrates Vardakis in the same district and he tells me, "What's the matter with Kegeroglou and he hasn't gotten that? We all understand it and Kegeroglu insists." I do not understand why that has not been understood. You are the only MEP who keeps raising this issue and brought me two more, Simorelli and Thraniotus. It seems so convincing that you are insisting there on Heraklion that there is a problem, that even those who know there is no problem. I'll explain it for the last time - I hope - so we can work for a little bit at the Ministry. The pension has one purpose: the one who ceases working and has an income to support him so that he can continue his life in a decent manner. That is the purpose of the pension. So it was founded, and in all the insurance funds, it was a condition to abolish your job, to stop your job, in order to get the pension, except for the OGA. And in the OGA it was not, because indeed the pension paid was too small and had another origin of the OGA fund. It was essentially support from the state budget. So it has been something since 1960, where at the time about this right was introduced for our farmers and farmers. But now, with the new regulations, which give the right to national pensions as well and therefore everyone has been involved through this new pension system, namely that everyone receives a national pension, from 2025 onwards, and farmers fall under the relevant provisions for all pensioners, that is to say, this relative reduction in pensions when one maintains his activity. Since January 2025 for farmers this will be the case. Other persons insured in any other fund happen to have agricultural farming and farming activity or livestock activity have incomes. That's what I said. Not because he has fields, because the fields can be kept everyone and go do his hobby and take out the product for his home. But when it is an activity, then it is an income, as it appears, and then obviously there is a consequence in their pension. I'm talking about the others from other funds. That's clear and I've said it before.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u76	From 1-1-2017 onwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u77	From 1-1-2017 those who have this activity. In any case, Mr Kegeroglu, the law provides for the entry into force of 13/5. That's what we've said. The rights for 2016 worked. They've been activated. For 2017 - here is Mr Apostle - I think that if someone is wrong and the deadline is not over yet, he can correct his statement. Isn't that so, Minister, since you're here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u78	We have time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u79	He can correct his statement if he made an incorrect declaration of rights. I am talking about your concern, if anyone makes a statement, ignoring - I mean one of the non-farmers, of the other economic operators - that it will have consequences for pensions because it will have incomes. That's all for now. I'll answer you later, so I don't waste time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u80	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u81	Minister, you are well aware, because you admitted it yourself that in our previous debate there was ambiguity on your part, which was interpreted as a specific statement for pensioners after 1-1-2017. Of course, you change it to me today, you do it: May 2016. Just because there are different places in your oral speech every time, please very much - please very much! - as you did with the circular for farmers on 20 April, on the eve of our debate here in Parliament, in my fifth or sixth question, do for the rest of us. Isn't there any staff at the Ministry writing the circular in accordance with your directions? I think it's simple. That's what we're asking. Write them with your signature so that there is indeed this direction and it will be cleared up. Is that possible? Have I asked you about the farmers before, after the circular came out? No, of course not. For the others, I ask you, why every day we take phones. I suppose the other Members, who have asked questions, have for that reason done so. There are telephones every day and not only from farmers, but also from praisers, from accountants, from people who are in this process. So issue circular for what is applicable in relation to the pension cut or non-retirement. I agree. I understand that. But today you changed it to me again. May 2016 you told me. From May 2016 onwards, the pensioners? We have to say this because, as you have said, these are these days the activation. It's ending in some space. Let's make it clear if it's from 1-1-2017 or from 13-5-2016, so people know what to do. Otherwise make a general announcement that it is not the case this year. The second point on which I would ask you and for which there is also ignorance and which has not been clarified, given that no warnings have been sent - may the fact that no warnings have been sent out to be good, mean that the extremists who have agricultural income or subsidy, and the pensioners themselves - are not going to pay CNGs? Even those who won't have a 60% cut? They are questions that only two circulars can answer them in writing and do not concern you from the Ministry, as you said. Of course, I suggested that we should discuss today with the other question, in order to issue the circulars today, but you did not accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u82	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u83	I'll tell you why I didn't accept it. I understand the fact that there are - I will put it right - false news that has been made headlines somewhere. I see it today. They say that the debts to the FBI have increased, that the CRL has been filled with debts, that they are not collected. This is because there is a lot of unintentional misinformation and elsewhere deliberately and deliberately. So because people have to go to make a statement on their rights, on their aids, and it is badly delayed - because it seems that something is the fault of what is happening, which is so late - I have to come here today to answer that and inform everyone who has rights, so that they can hurry to say it. It is clear that, first of all, those who were already retired, whatever occupation they did, whatever activity they did up to the entry into force of the law, will have the right to receive aid and subsidies, because they have become pensioners and even if they were from other funds, these pensions are not affected because they will declare entitlements. If I said until 1 January 2017, Mr Kegeroglu, it is because I answer rights and rights for 2017. The statement is for that reason. After the entry into force of the Pensioners Act, they are subject to the same provisions as all those who acquire income and pay a levy for that income and have the relative reduction, because they have a levy other than farmers, for which that effect will enter into force on 1 January 2025. I think I can't say it more clearly. And I say this here in Parliament, with the gravity of such a statement. In the face of both your question and the repeated statements I have made, there is no margin of ambiguity or doubt about that. In response to the opportunity given to me and to the income of farmers, farmers who retire until 31 December 2024 will not pay contributions for their agricultural production in terms of their income in the E1. Others, however, who do not fall under this transitional period, will pay. You know, there are scientists, doctors, lawyers who have large areas and have large incomes more than their profession. It is unfair not to have the same treatment because they happen to be from elsewhere. I have said this on several occasions and I think it is fair for both our farmers and farmers to have this regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I would like to inform the House that five topical questions have been debated today from the eighteenth. Let me also read out the timely questions which will not be discussed and which are also confirmed by the Secretary-General of the Government. The first question with number 4389-22-2017 question by the Member of the Radical Left Coalition (Mac) Balaura to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the increase of OGA debts for retirement will not be discussed after consultation of the Deputy Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity with the MP. The second, under number 780/2-5-2017, timely question of the first cycle of the Member of Parliament, Mr Christos Staikos, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the financing of actions by criminal actions against the Greek State and the allocation of funds for social purposes, will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister responsible. The second question under number 789/2-5-2017 of the Independent Member of Parliament, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Activities" the new school books written during the neo-liberal cheques promote the degradation of our Greek Orthodox identity", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the relevant Minister. Likewise, the seventh question under number 753/25-4-2017 in the second cycle of MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning the abolition or suspension of the 12th Municipal School of Thessaloniki, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister responsible. The fourth question under number 649/27-3-2017 of the Independent MEP II of Athens Efstathios Panagoulis to the Minister of the Interior, concerning the provocative use of chemicals in protesters despite the recent explicit ban on the government and the commitment of the Minister, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the relevant Minister. The fifth question, under number 461/8-2-2017, of the second-round question of Athens of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Helen Zarulias to the Minister of the Interior, concerning the terrorist attack with kalashnikov against men of MATs, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister responsible. The second question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMARK KEGEROGLO to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the subject of "New Jurisdiction of Heraklion, maintenance and improvement of the existing judiciary (previous court building - court building) - temporary relocation of services", will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the relevant Minister. Finally, the eighth under No 761/254/2017 topical question by the Independent MEP, Mr Nicholas Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister for Health, on the subject: 'Will Patras official candidacy be submitted for the relocation of the European Medicines Agency?' It will not be discussed because of the obsolete obligations of the relevant Minister. At this point, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u85	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda for the INQUIRY Question No 19/16/24-4-2017 by the Members of the New Democracy Luminous Arabatzis, Ioannis Antoniadis, Georgiou Stylos, Charalambou Athanasiou, Vasiliou Joyakas, Athanasios Bourasiou, Christos Bukouros, Konstantinos Tsiaras, Eleftherios Aygeaki, Athanasios Davaki, Theodoras (Dorah) Bakoyannis, Spyridos - Adonidos Georgiadis, Christos Dimas, Konstantinos Katsafandou, Emmanouil (Man) Konstantinouila, Ioannis Plakiotakis, Apostolos Vess, Maria Antonios, Konstantinou Vlas, Stergios Giannakis, Konstantinos Skrekas, Constantinos Ach. Karamanlis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the subject: ‘Previously delay in the development of the 2014-2020 Rural Development Programme and all the European Union financial instruments’. On behalf of the Government, the Minister for Rural Development and Food will speak, Mr Evangelos Apostolos. Let me also announce the names of the parliamentary representatives, as they have been given by the parliamentary groups. From New Democracy, Mr.Ioannis Kefaliannis was appointed by Mr.Ioannis Kefaliannis, Mr.Ioannis Karagiannis, from the Democratic Complex of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Athanasios Theocharopoulos, from the People's Association - Golden Dawn, from the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Nicholaos Moraitis, from the Independent Greeks Mr. George Lazaridis, from the Association of Kentrons Ms. Theodora Megalokonomou and from Potamis Spyrion Danellis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u86	Mr President, I would like to speak, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u87	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u88	I would just like to inform the House that the Deputy Minister and the State Secretary will make use of my capacity for dentology and tritology at the same time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u89	Good, Minister. We will now give the floor to the first questioning Member of the New Democracy, Mrs Fotinis Arabatzis, and the other questions will be followed in turn by the other Members of the New Democracy, Mr Stylion, Mr Antoniadis, Mr Bukokouros, Mr Dimas, Mr Vlassi and Mr Tsiaras. You have the floor, Mrs. Arabaji.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, after the measures - tombstones for farmers, like you, Mr Minister, have described them, you will, unfortunately, bring the fourth memorandum to Parliament in a few days, unfortunately, before the third memorandum is completed and of course without funding. More than ten months' pensions, since the cuts you have agreed will reach two monthly pensions, where Mr Spirtz said you will not only be in the thirteenth of December, but you will also give the thirteenth fourteenth. For duty-free, I do not have to say anything, Mr Chakalotos has said it when he threatened to resign if he falls under EUR 9 000. And of course, taxes, taxes, taxes, and all this after a year's delays and supposedly theatrical negotiation. All of this, following heavy declarations of not more than EUR 1 extra measures, for red lines and so forth. In this dire climate, the country's primary sector is narrowing. The tax and insurance raid, combined with the launching of production costs, of course, of your own policies, are already leaving deep wounds to the country's agri-food world. A unique lifesaving for rural economy is perhaps the timely and rational management and absorption of the EUR 6 billion of the Agricultural Development Programme 2014-2020, the so-called 'Guarantee EPA', the warm Community money that the former New Democracy Government had guaranteed, unfortunately, you have been letting it glean for two years with continuous and unacceptable delays, both in the communication of measures and, of course, in the management of what you have said last minute. Unfortunately, our country in Europe is twenty-seven. Twenty-seven, with only 9.33% to the third quarter of 2016, and, of course, with last-minute alchemys you reached 12% in the last quarter, but still under the Community average. This is how precious and necessary money is from the primary sector, draining the liquidity of the market, sedating the rural economy and the national economy, of course, as a whole. It is no coincidence that on the days of SYRIZA - ANEL the Rural Development Programme was last approved in the European Union on 11 December 2015, seventeen months after being submitted by our own administration. So what did you do? You have received a programme that was ready for approval and, of course, increased by EUR 3 billion in relation to the initial Community allocation, and two years from taking over your administration, you are making a dangerous contribution to the rural economy. Your responsibilities are enormous, Mr Ministers. Because in a year like 2015, because it was the 'n + 2' of the end of the previous programme that the payments should run, as in every end of the programming period, due to the maturity of projects and beneficiaries, of course, and of public and private investment, you came and froze everything. You did what you did here in the entire Greek economy. Six months of 2015 you didn't pay anything. To make SYRIZA the tough negotiator and the antimonetary, you obviously kept all the money for wages and pensions that were at stake because of your disastrous negotiating tactics. The result is to launch the misappropriated obligations, which, quite simply, when they are delayed, remove money from the next programming period. What if the New Democracy were constantly warning you through parliamentary scrutiny, what if the Commissioner for Agriculture himself came, Mr. Phil Hogan, and on 6 October he pulled your ears here from the Step forward of the House, that you must run without delay the implementation of the Rural Development Programme, unfortunately your Government has shown no provocative effect. And when, of course, you woke up from the lethargy, even the mistakes in the measures you have not announced, have turned into a bridge of Arta. On the day they are built, at night they are demolished, such as the fiasco with the management of the biological crop measure, where after three extensions to the deadlines with the invitation of thousands of beneficiaries each time there is no necessary budget and the great increase in the price of livestock, which Mr Tsironis announced at the last minute, apparently ashes in the eyes of the farmers, has managed to lead the programme to Waterloo, ultimately excluding thousands of herbal beneficiaries outside the NATURA regions and, for the first time, to extremist the whole farmers. The question remains vague, Minister: why have you extended from the first expiry of the deadline when the applications from the beneficiaries had doubled the budget available? Why did you make fun of the world and invite him to submit applications again and again? It is certainly immoral politics to announce from the Step of the House that you are increasing the price to farmers, to finally throw them all out, of course, by shrinking a budget of 443 million euros to just 221 million. At the same time, of course, you have the courage to promise the excluded beneficiaries more than EUR 400 million in a new notice. The same mess, of course, with the notice for young farmers. After two extensions given by your Ministry to submit applications, thousands of young farmers had to wait four whole months until the information system was opened to start evaluating their applications. The delay, of course, which has accumulated obstacles to the thousands of candidates, because for the first time this year the young farmers will learn the results of their evaluation of this important programme after the end of the IACC declarations, which expired on 15 May. As a result, they are going blindly, whether or not they should, at the end of the day, submit crop declarations, thus risking either their inclusion in the programme, if they are finally approved, or the opportunity to take part in it again, if they are rejected and made a crop declaration. And it was only yesterday that the European Commission had to come up with an extension of the IACC declarations by 15 June, which, of course, partly solves the problem of young farmers who are at risk of being out of programme without any fault of their own. As in the air, some ten thousand young farmers in the previous programme are at risk of being involved. Why? Because it has a huge delay at the start of their training, which if it is not completed by November of this year, these young farmers in the previous programme will be invited to return money back. It is unacceptable, Mr Ministers, when EUROSTAT figures show that the percentage of farmers under thirty-five years in Greece is only 7% and over fifty-five years old is over 57%, to drugize the age-renewal of the country's rural population. With regard to the improvement plans, the most important programme for the creation and modernisation of farms announced that you would publish by the end of 2016 did not even make the pre-publishment that you later told us that the pre-publishment would take place in March 2017. As far as processing is concerned, only on 22 April was the invitation for action and for half the programme. Hundreds of jobs, that is! It does not move sheet, of course, for either the nitrate reduction programme, which is transferred for the 2018-2019 crop season, despite your promise that it would run for the 2017 growing season. It does not move a leaf for rural tourism, which is still expected to be invited, and of course important development measures for rural education, agricultural advisers, European innovation partnerships remain in the drawer. As for the allocation of 1/3 of the funds of the regional programme - the architecture of the New Democracy, which you have adopted - to stress that, with your delays, only in October 2016 have young farmers been invited by the regions. And while the economy catchs a bottom and narrows for liquidity, you turn your back on the planned financial instruments of both the Rural Development Programme and the Juncker Plan for the agri-food sector, valuable opportunities to develop synergies with the European Investment Bank that could finance, provide favourable loans to investors for their own participation in the various programmes at a time of such economic hardship. Our country and here. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need one more minute, Mr. President. It's raining money, Minister, and you're holding an umbrella. You have just signed the ex ante assessment with the European Investment Bank of these financial instruments, which will take six to eight months to complete this assessment, when Romania has already received 87 million, Estonia 34 million, Italy 105 million, Ireland 100 million, Denmark 24 million, while Bulgaria, Slovenia, Latvia are quickly completing the evaluation. The same and worse situation as the PCA is noted in the Operational Fisheries and Maritime Programme, which only touches 1%, in a sector of high socio-economic importance, such as fisheries, which depends on over thirty thousand jobs. After that, please, Mr Ministers: When will you finally declare all the measures of the new Agricultural Development Programme 2014-2020? What notices and when are specifically expected? When will the next call for organic crops be made and who will be concerned? What will happen with the exclusions of all farmers and thousands of farmers from this measure? How will the funds of 2017 be repaid, which these beneficiaries have lost because of your operations and how will the loss of the first year of implementation of the programme be repaid? What about the development instruments and the Juncker project? What design is there and what time horizon? What is the timetable for notices on fisheries? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mrs. Arabaji. The next honourable Member, George Stylos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u92	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, let us remember some 'grey' parts of the government and thus manage the political leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food. Let's see what your works and days are. You increased VAT on agricultural supplies from 13% to 24%. You increased income tax from 13% to 22% to 45%. You increased the tax advance from 75% to 100%. You have for the first time taxed basic agricultural subsidies and subsidies. You abolished the reduction of excise duty on agricultural oil. It increased the cost of energy from farmers by increasing PPC's tariffs. Insurance contributions increased excessively. These are the works and days of SYRIZA governance - ANEL from 2015 until today. Let's go see the subject of today's question. The new Rural Development Programme was designed and submitted in July 2014 by our government, New Democracy, which provided EUR 6 billion for the period 2014-2020-4.7 billion Community participation and 1.3 billion national participation - as well as 14 billion direct payments to farmers. We challenge you. Your Government, you, did not even raise by 1 euro the Community contribution to financing this programme. If we lie, come and disprove us with evidence and evidence. The so-called updated Programme for Rural Development does not include anything but technical corrections and changes, which are always made when a programme of more than a thousand pages is submitted, a programme with structure and philosophy, concerning technical corrections, as well as reallocations to the budgets you have made. So I invite you to tell us, Minister, what you have changed to the basic philosophy of the programme submitted by the New Democracy, to what was wrong with the previous programme and what was your contribution, your added value, your new direction. The changes that you mentioned are the result of your inertia and resulted in 900 million of the previous programme, 2007-2014, not to be absorbed in 2015, as agreed and as planned. So the previous program lost these 900 million, became a bridge and transferred them to the next program, in 2014-2020. What's the effect of that? What was the result? The money we could absorb from the 2014-2020 programme, the 6.7 billion, could be reduced by 900 million. And all this because? Because you're inactive, you're late. So you came after ten months in the country's rule, when you made the tough negotiation and spent it in the next programme. This has led to the reduction of the existing programme and, therefore, to the lack of resources and money which Greek farmers so much need today. To prevent you, Minister, I have searched with my colleagues and I have searched your ministerial decisions and press releases of your Ministry for the entire period of 2015, from January until the end of October. There are four press releases relating to the Rural Development Programme and only four ministerial decisions that change and make a redistribution of Community aid. This is your work. This is published and this is recorded. So tell us what decisions you made, when did you make, what did you do in 2015, to get forward, to run, to start? We know where we are. We know what the conditions are. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm going to need a little more time, Mr. President, one or two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u93	You have a secondary right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u94	I'll get him out of my dentistry. One more minute. So tell us, Minister, what are your amendments, the decisions you have made during this period, because you have mistaken the development of the programme? We live among the farmers. We live in the Greek region. We are experiencing their problems every day and the economic crisis. We note that while there is money, we are whistling elsewhere and are looking in other directions. I want to make a point for you. Why, Minister, have you excluded from the measure of organic farming, which your wrong actions have reduced the programme - out of 12 000 beneficiaries we went to the sixty-four who have applied - and you have come after changes in decisions to change, to say that we are excluding all livestock farming? You have excluded livestock when you know that our dynamic products come from animal production, because this programme has been put out in the air. We therefore invite you, Minister, to tell us. Why did you not go to the point of agricultural advisers when we expect, as you have said, more than a thousand geopolitics and technocrats to be involved in this sector in the next period? Do we have the ability to delay? Do you know what the circumstances are? Do you know what the level of unemployment is? Or maybe we'll go to four hours in part-time for the countryside as well. Today the Greek region needs scientists, geoponets, technicians, geoponets, who have graduated from our foundations, to give advice to our farmers and producers to run forward to get the country's agri-food sector started. I want to ask you, Minister. We all talk about it and say everywhere that we need the best organization of farmers, stronger cooperatives, better producer groups. Is there or is there no money in the Rural Development Programme that is clearly aimed at this institution, to strengthen producer groups? Why have you not made progress in the law that you have voted on for cooperatives in the adoption of applicable ministerial decisions? Why are you stalling? Why don't you move on? I want you, Minister, to tell us what the timetables are, precisely, to which you will proceed in the implementation of the rural development and food programme.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u95	Mr. Style, let me inform you that you have covered the time of your dentistry now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u96	Mr President, will you give me some time from my dentistry as well?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u97	What about me?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u98	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u99	But I'm already telling you that you also covered the time of dentistry that you deserved the three-minute intervention of dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u100	I'm closing, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u101	I'll let you know right now. Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u102	I shall conclude, Mr President. So we ask you, Minister, to give us the timelines, because I remind you that you announced last August that five actions of the Rural Development Programme will be launched. I invite you to come to Stepma and tell us. Of the five actions - I know the answer, it is published - how much of what you announced in August have been announced so far until this time we are talking here? I would like to point out two further points. Why have you abolished measure 17 of the EUR 200 million budget, where it was intended to provide this money for the ELGA to protect farmers and farmers, Minister, and to strengthen the ELGA, to give our producers lower contributions and to allow for better results? Why have you not taken advantage of the legislative framework for changing the Community regulation on the definition of pastureland? Do you know, Minister, that the definition of pasture has been carried out and implemented by the previous government?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u103	Mr. Style, excuse me now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u104	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u105	Please, you're talking nine and a half minutes. Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u106	I'll be back in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u107	You should know - I declare it now, of course, will preside over another Vice-President - that you are not entitled to secondary education.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u108	We have said so, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u109	I say this to prevent any objections that you may raise to the next President-in-Office. Please, you'll be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u110	I will not use my dentistry, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u111	But you don't deserve it anymore. It's not a question of using or not. You've been using it already.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u112	I won't ask to speak again. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u113	Don't enter into a dialogue. Please, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u114	Mr President, I am closing with two proposals. Minister, for us, for the New Democracy, the primary sector will give way and perspective to the young people of our country. The agri-food sector supports the Greek region, the countryside, the activities of Greek farmers and farmers. The villages come alive with the activities of the farmers. We therefore believe that support for the primary sector is patriotic policy, national policy, Minister. That is why we tell you that your government's responsibilities, your delays and inactions are too great. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u115	Mr Ioannis Antoniadis has the floor. I would ask the speakers very much to be within the time limits that exist.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u116	I'm consistent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u117	No, no. I'm not talking to you. I am referring in general.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u118	I won't use my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u119	I'm telling you this. You have the right to protology for five minutes and dentistry for three minutes. Use as much time as you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u120	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, before entering into the topical and urgent questions, I would like to ask a few questions and points. Since he is here and more than one minister, I would like to ask: Mr Ministers, and you and the Prime Minister have even visited the market at all? Whether in the morning or at noon or at night, there's an excellent quiet thing. The whole market has changed in a retreat. And I'm talking about all kinds of shops. We visit them and convey the cry of desperation to both workers and entrepreneurs. They don't know what's going to happen next day, if they find the stores open, and if both the workers and the businessmen are gonna have a job. I don't know, too, if you've visited rural areas. If you go to the cafes tonight - the cafes are the barometer of farmers' welfare - it's all empty. I am referring to all this, because while there is this huge crisis, you have been parked in your drawers billions that remain unused either by incapacity, by ideology or by obsession. You tell us. I also want to comment on some of the narratives we are witnessing lately: New Democracy is supposed to be in a stalemate now that the second assessment is completed, the government's great success, which, after a year and a half, completes the second assessment, and we will all eat with golden spoons and get out of the crisis, leaves the memorandum, development, flowers bloom and birds sing. Really, who are you addressing? Then the Samara government, which in the two years had closed down four evaluations, what was it supposed to do? A seasonal party with constant successes and constant sketching of the memorandum? You are singing everywhere that you have reduced the rate of unemployed. You are not saying that these one-two reductions have been made because we now have flexible forms of work. Mostly, however, you do not say that five hundred thousand unemployed have left abroad. But if another five hundred thousand unemployed leave, I can assure you that the unemployment rate will fall to 10%. All you don't tell us is that Greece will be a state of old age. The countermeasure story to whom is it addressed? You bring in $4 billion and drop some crumbs. They are the so-called crumbs of shame, which are not worthy of Greeks, because the Greeks want their own work, they want to live decently in society, like other Europeans and not in third-world regimes and states. The good thing is, with all this, that you are telling us that, if they do not approve the countermeasures and debt reduction, you will not apply them. But will you be 2019 and 2020? Of course not! We had to talk! In any case, if somehow the New Democracy Government in 2019 or 2020, I repeat this and I will say it in the end, it could absorb all the money, the issue is that the damage you have caused will remain, because at this time the rural world, the rural economy and ultimately the national economy need from this money, from these billions, and you deprive them of it. We're coming to the rural area. With all the measures that you have taken and with all the more general conditions - admittedly there are some objective reasons - it is true that the cost of production has increased, which you also contributed with the great taxation, with the high insurance contributions and we have the drastic reduction in agricultural income, plus all other, the high cost of fertilisers, oil, etc. I come to more specific issues. Unfortunately, we have received protests, first of all on the issue of organic farming and all this fiasco, which was created, with all these continuous extensions and all the farmers and the beneficiaries of natural production, which you have responded to, to put those who are in NATURA areas. I would like to make two specific points and questions. First of all, on the subject of objections, Mr Minister, you have put on specific forms and, if a farmer wants to make an objection, he cannot. For example, I would like to mention this: one farmer has a hundred acres and has only nine acres in NATURA. If he leaves 11 acres, he gets 10 percent and gets in. He can't make that objection. You're not accepting it. Like you, parachutes, bring these changes, they also want farmers, once they are very close to the limit, to be able to enter, so that they do not lose this particular aid, the supplement to their income. Also, for organic products, once you have been late, you have contributed to losing farmers a growing season. They could, if they knew they wouldn't be in, instead of throwing wheat, putting corn on and not having that loss of income plus the costs of the file, which they paid and have been lost. I continue with the fiasco for the programme for young farmers, which, after three extensions for the submission of applications due to a problem in the computer system, have blocked everything, while the beneficiary young farmers, who joined the measure three years ago, can not apply for payment in 2014. The problem with the improvement plans, which is a huge problem, does not allow them to be modernised. There is a great turbulence for farmers on this matter. There is the fiasco and the big problem with nitrates, which, instead of running in 2017, is transferred to 2018, 2019 and we see. Innovation and rural education measures have already been mentioned. I don't want to say anything. They already had to run and they're not absorbed. There is the issue of zero absorption in the Operational Fisheries and Maritime Programme. There's the thing about the Juncker package, which you celebrated, and now it's forgotten. I will close with two points. Mr. Ministers, in these two years you have won specific foundations that are very important. I'm going to mention some. You brought Greece first within the twenty-eight - twenty-seven now - to unemployment. You brought Greece first to immigration to find work. You brought Greece first to zero absorption in the Rural Development Programme. We were last, if you saw the evidence, the absorption of money, which we would find on the lists and the smuggling. For tobacco and fuel smuggling, from EUR 600 million fines were only EUR 30 million and for the Lagard and Boyarns lists, only EUR 550 million was collected. I shall close, in order to be consistent with this: whatever may be done, Mr Ministers, and if in a magic way, as I said at first, this money can at some point be absorbed, the great damage to the agricultural world and the rural economy has already been done and is not replenished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u121	Mr. Christos Boukokouros has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, it is incomprehensible and incomprehensible that what is happening, that there is so much money needed for the agricultural sector, but also more extensively for the Greek economy, and that they remain untapped because of your abundance. This leads me to conclude that you do not wish to govern the country. Your only desire remains the precipitation of power. That is why you are working on all fronts, on all issues, constantly new and incredible delays. But that, Minister, which is happening in the agricultural sector and in particular in the Rural Reconstruction Programme, is indeed unprecedented. Your delays have broken down every record. We all agree, Minister, that the primary sector is crucial for exiting the crisis. We also conclude that this sector requires, among other things, three basic things: the renewal of the agricultural population, the modernisation of farms and establishments and the production of quality products that favour the country's soil and microclimates. So let us see what you have done for these three areas in the context of rural reconstruction. And I will begin, Minister, by young farmers. Although there is a spectacular shift of young people in the primary, agricultural and livestock sectors, your policies are depressing them, disappointing them and ultimately - despite their entry with vision and appetite - you will expel them from the primary sector again. Minister, how do you feel as Minister for Rural Development that in Bulgaria, Romania and Poland the second assessment of the dossiers of young farmers and farmers has been completed and the money has already been paid? Do you want me to tell you what's going on in Greece? Your services estimate that after the late April 2016 notice, the first review of the files will be completed by the end of May and will also provide an indicative date for the end of June to complete the second evaluation. However, the platform does not exist, the software does not exist to give ratings the files and to complete the evaluation, even within these dramatically delayed dates. So, Minister, in the 'Youth MARKETs' programme you are taking no grim last place in Europe. But that is not without consequence, Minister. You called on young farmers to enter the programme last April. The second growing season has begun since the emergence of their interest and they have not taken a single euro. Do you know what this means to a young farmer and a young farmer, Minister? It just means that it has to meet the costs of installation and the costs of two growing seasons, without having taken a single euro! I mean, you caught him, you captured him, you destroy him, and in the end you'll lead him out of the primary sector! This is how you treat young farmers through the specific measure of the programme. Do you want to go to the improvement plans for the modernisation of farms? You haven't even published the program, Minister! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I shall also use my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u123	Mr. Bukkaro, excuse me for the interruption. Let me tell you that this request by Members of Parliament for the use of dentistry does not apply under the Rules of Procedure. The Bureau gives this tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u124	It's a regular practice.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u125	For information, I told you. You're interrupting my mind that way.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u126	Mr. Bukkaro, I interrupted, I apologized, your time will be kept.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u127	In three minutes that's used to it, not five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u128	That's what he's used to! I have to tell you what the Rules of Procedure stipulate. From there on, the Bureau gives it the opportunity, as it has been given and will give it, to use the terminology by the honourable Members, but not to come later, when the order of the seconds comes, to ask for intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u129	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u130	There's no such intention.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u131	Mr. Bukkaro, you have the floor to continue. Your time has been kept, don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u132	Mr President, I have developed a three-fold set of concrete measures and actions. There was an interruption without even completing my protology. I just told you I'd finish. Anyway, I'm on it. The improvement plans, Mr Minister, which are supposed to lead to the need to modernise agricultural holdings, you said publicly that the initial notice would be issued in March. Now you're transferring them after summer. In other words, let's go for a third year government, SYRIZA - ANEL, without agricultural investment, without improvement plans. Three years is a terrible time, Minister, to smile in front of such remarks. We must be concerned when these timetables are not respected, because people are in the countryside and are suffering, they are losing trouble, they are losing investments, they are losing their property. Let's think more at last! Don't ask yourself why we haven't left the crisis yet and we're last throughout Europe! And to come to organic farming, Mr. Minister: delays, abstentions, repatriations, three extensions, exceptions to the livestock world. What else? Only for the NATURA regions. I'm sorry, organic products, agricultural and livestock products, do only produce NATURA? Do you promise a new EUR 400 million notice to put within the farmers and farmers outside NATURA areas you have excluded because of your own responsibilities? Will you finally tell us where you're going, Minister? You run one of the most critical ministries - there is one of the keys to exit the crisis - and you record the greatest delays from the entire government project. Are the farmers who go bankrupt every day? Are young farmers borrowing to meet their expenses, why are you delaying the implementation of these measures? Will you finally assume your responsibilities? You're not a new government. I've told you before. You are the oldest Memorandum Government with this composition, the composition of SYRIZA - ANEL. You're the oldest Memorial Government! Finally, come to your senses, rule, leave the point of authority and take your responsibilities! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u133	Mr Christos Dimas has the floor, which is the next Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr President. The government's performance in the ESDP is well known: delays, shortfalls, resources that have been lagging behind in funds for years and failure to targets that the government itself sets itself. In the 2017 draft budget report, in fact, the annual target set by the government in the NSRP for 2016 was EUR 2,28 billion. Finally, it was announced that the government absorbed EUR 1.61 billion, so 29.3% below the target. Today, when the cost of agricultural production has been greatly increased and farmers are trying to cover the extermination taxes and the insurance contributions you have imposed on them and at the same time to sell their goods to a society whose available income and purchasing power you have reduced, you are incapable of placing on the market Community funds, which the former government, the Samaras government, had secured and so much needed the rural economy. In particular, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government received in January 2015 the guaranteed Community resources for rural development amounting to EUR 4.7 billion, which, with national participation, amounted to EUR 6 billion. More than two years after that, these resources remain largely unexploited, while farmers, fishermen and farmers are experiencing the consequences of the devastating recession in which the Tsipras Government has caught us. I would like to give some indicative information to the farmers to understand the extent of your frugality, since, while the Greek farmer is facing the government's tax raid, the government is whistling indifferently. Greece is last among the twenty-seven countries of the European Union in absorbing the resources of the second pillar, having absorbed only 9.33% at the end of 2016. Repeat, 9.33%! Disprove me, Minister, with your information. It's 9.33%, then, Uragua! The programme for organic farming has evolved into fiasco. You have given three extensions, without having the budget required, which has led to the exclusion of thousands of beneficiaries and all farmers. The "Young Vegetables" programme is still frozen because it has not yet opened the information system to start the evaluation of applications. Do you really have a timetable for the overall payment time procedure for the first instalment to young farmers? We'd be interested to hear that, Minister. And to make the comparison - because it is important to remember - the previous government, the Samara government, had achieved from the end date of submission of the request in the summer of 2014 not only to complete the evaluation, but had succeeded in starting payments within three months and having completed within five months and having increased the budget twice in negotiations with the European Commission to include as many beneficiaries as possible. What did you do? You want to tell us? But let me guess, referring to the other measures. Nothing! Nothing on the improvement plans, nothing on the management of the Rural Development Programme, nothing on nitrates and the most deafening of all, nothing on the Operational Programme for Fisheries and the Sea, to which I shall refer in detail to my dentistry. In more than two years you have managed to absorb just EUR 2.7 million of the total EUR 101 million. The data, unfortunately, leave no room for optimism. The experience of the rural world by your Government is characterized by a huge "nothing". And I will give another example of what I have dealt with personally and I want an answer, Minister, about what you have done. A special pilot measure aimed at subsidising active agricultural production from adverse climatic phenomena, such as hailing, burning and frost, was introduced to the Rural Development Programme by the Government of Samaras. I want you to tell me what stage the increase in the subsidy rate for anti-hailing networks and anti-brain membranes is. Unfortunately, what the country needs is a change of policy. It is absolutely essential to activate the approved financial instruments of the programmes, with the assistance of the European Investment Bank, in order to relaunch the rural economy. You two and a half years have proved yourself unable to do so. You're in the way of the country's development. It's obvious now. And only when you leave the country's governance will Greece be able to go forward and, therefore, agricultural production. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Mr. Dimas. Mr Constantine Vlassis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u136	Minister, in the last two years the term "heroic negotiation" has become a flag of your Government, with the well-known tragic results for Greek citizens. You were supposed to fight to claim the best for the country, and all you've achieved is to lose valuable time and rise the account because of your inability. And it is not only that nothing has been achieved through this process, but you have decided and not to deal with critical issues that many people have required only to have a fair outcome and a multitude of benefits for the country, it was a commitment, a job and a responsibility. Unfortunately, one of these loose ends is the 2014-2020 Rural Development Programme, on which we are coming to talk today with our topical question. To be honest with you, I am not impressed by the fact that our country is uragua, when it comes to absorbing the necessary Community resources under the second pillar, with only 9.33% in the third quarter of 2016. From the first moment you took over the country's governance, your attitude towards the European Union was the least hostile. And it may have been open and necessary to settle matters with our partners, but that was certainly not a reason to drop the guaranteed Community funds of EUR 4.7 billion, which are left unabsorbed. And all these are numbers. They are not questioned, Minister. You know, the exit from the crisis won't come with any forgiveness on the part of the partners. Greece will never stand on its feet again without responsibility, credibility and hard work. Greece will be led to the development by exploiting all the tools offered to it by the European framework and all the comparative advantages that we have as a country. Except that your inadequate handling has led not only to low rates of absorption but also to the visible risk of losing these valuable funds that could lead to substantial armouring and strengthening of the agricultural sector. So before we go to the individual questions of today's question, I have to ask you the following question first and foremost: Are you prepared to deal with the agricultural sector as an essential lever for our country's development and how do you intend to do that? Do you recognize its role and importance as a development pillar? And if so - because so far you do not show it - are you able to carry out what is required to bring about effective rural development? I could make reference to many of the points on the topical question, which many of them concern my particular place, Arcadia. Unfortunately, however, this is not possible because of time constraints. I would, however, like to place particular emphasis on the enormous failure of the 'Biological Agriculture' programme. The measure included two actions for animal and plant production of almost EUR 450 million. The invitation was given, there was a great interest in producers - forty-nine thousand applications for plant production, fifteen thousand of animal production - and we concluded that no candidate for animal production was approved because of the overrun of the budget. However, even for plant production, the approval rates were low. Let me note that only thirteen out of seventy applications were approved in Arcadia, 7%. I don't think you're questioning that, either. I have a simple question: Do you recognize the failure of this measure? Would you like to reopen with new criteria as requested by operators and bio-engineers? The measure of organic farming is an indication of how you dealt with the whole of the Rural Development Programme: great delays in the notice of measures, mistakes in planning, inappropriateness, which in essence canceled the programme's dynamics. Unless you consider that the minimum requested and eligible budget for measure 4.2 to support investment in processing, marketing and development of agricultural products will not exclude a large proportion of interested parties. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] If you are not aware of this, I must remind you that the unfavourable economic situation leaves little room for small businesses to make available such sums.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u137	Mr. Vlassi, you've already covered the time of your dentistry. Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u138	I'll be out in a minute, Mr. President. I won't answer. I'm afraid all of this is fine letters for you and it looks from your smile. So we are talking today about the Rural Development Programme, about a tool...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u139	Why are you so provocative? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u140	'Cause you're always drunk, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u141	Minister, after one speaker you will take the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u142	You will also speak, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u143	When you talk, we don't stay. We are talking today about the Rural Development Programme...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u144	You're smiling now, and that means that I...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u145	Please, Minister, do not interrupt. Mr. Blassy, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u146	My Minister, you, because you are not going down to society, unfortunately you are not listening to what the farmers say.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u147	Am I not in society?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u148	However, because we are circulating, we are listening to them and we must move them forward. I'm hanging up. So we are talking today about the Rural Development Programme, a tool which could really be oxygen and armour for farmers, when you have not succeeded in - nor can you question it - nor can you even grant the compensation to farmers affected by their production. For what development, then, do you deprive them of the very possibility of survival in many cases? To sum up, Minister, by transferring thought and anxiety from my particular place, Arcadia, I would ask you to give us an exact timetable for the proclamation of all the measures in the new Rural Development Programme, but also your commitment to not losing Community funds due to the tragic delays in their absorption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u149	Mr Constantine Tsiaras has the floor, the last of the list of honourable Members of the New Democracy, followed by the Minister's intervention. Here, Mr. Chiara, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not be tempted to comment on the imminent closure of the second assessment, although there is so much to be said, because I believe that there will be parliamentary time next week to make any comments, which obviously relate to what Greek farmers are living for, especially at this time. On the other hand, I would like to say, Minister, that there is no challenge on the part of the Officerial Representation when a parliamentary control procedure attempts to get some kind of answers. If there are expressions of human emotion, obviously they should not bother you. On the contrary, you must demonstrate, through your own role and through your parliamentary capacity, that everything we tell you is not true and that you have done the work you are invoking. But this work must be seen through the great picture. It needs to be seen through an assumption if we eventually accept as a Greek state, through the expression of all the political forces, that the primary sector is the real pillar of our national economy and that it is part of the strategy of any serious democratic post-political government as being assessed through a process that ranks it into an absolute priority national strategy for our national economy. If there is this assumption, I think that many of these mistakes, which unfortunately have been repeated in recent years - and I am not going to exclude anyone, because I want to be fair and honest - could have been avoided and we could have created another possibility and another perspective for the whole agricultural world. But what is today the reality of the average Greek farmer? What is, possibly, the reality of his present and likely shows his own future? We see more or less what is happening and we believe that with this new government the agricultural sector is becoming inconsistent with the people of the day-to-day labour. The primary sector has come into a situation of deep recession from the continuous rise in production costs, at the same time as we know that the income of the average Greek farmer is dramatically falling. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The problems of liquidity, which have arisen in the Greek economy, create great deadlocks in agricultural holdings. Who does not know that the loan to the farmer is now impossible, even to meet the short-term financial needs of his farms? Who does not see that the bureaucratic requirements for agricultural enterprises remain insurmountable and create delays that are inhibiting the creation of investments in the agri-food sector so that Greek products can gain both in quality and competitiveness? Ladies and gentlemen, whether we want to accept it or not, farmers fight for themselves without genuine support from the official state. Support for farmers with information and training on new crops and techniques is essentially nonexistent. In the ELGA any such problems arise in connection with the staffing of inspection services, delays in recording damages and, of course, the timely payment of compensation. Local communities of the villages in the region celebrate every time it is announced that an ELGA step will only visit them to record the damage. We believe that the government does not have a plan and face up to the specificities of the agricultural profession. Earlier reference was made to such different areas. Absorptions from the ESRB are nonexistent. The organic farming programme comes from an extension to the next extension and non-enforcement. As far as some improvement plans are concerned, these do not exist anywhere. Young farmers are still looking to find out how to stand and how to stand on their feet financially. On the other hand, we know - it has been mentioned earlier - that the Nitrates or the 2014-2020 Operational Fisheries and Maritime Programme did not go any further. On the contrary, all those who have been involved in one way or another are actually in despair. A recent example is the recreation and repatriation of forest maps. Farmers were at risk of losing their fields or, on the other hand, they would have to pay them. You know, ladies and gentlemen, the livelihood of the rural family in the 21st century of these developments and of this reality that we all live, eventually turns into a wretch. Farming family income is constantly shrinking by the increase in individual taxation - duty is reduced once again, and HISFIA must be paid - but also by the loss of agricultural pensions. We have shown many times on the part of the New Democracy MPs, that there is a reality that either we ignore or want to tackle it in a negative way, when even the 60% reduction for pensioners who continue to grow - and we know that it has been a constant tactic that has complemented the low pensions of the OGA - will in fact create even greater problems for even greater consequences. And if in all this picture we add that in the Greek countryside with the closure of basic structures, there are growing difficulties - they close school units, they lack agricultural doctors, crime is growing because of lack of policing, etc. - all this leads to the real desertification of the countryside. Two days earlier the President of the New Democracy made a statement of his own thoughts on this 0.5% surplus of the primary surplus you wanted. These communications, these proposals in fact aimed at how we can strengthen the average Greek farmer. We've been talking about reducing HISBIA. We have asked the government to adopt a proposal on the reduction of VAT on agricultural supplies, of course, and the reduction in VAT on wine. All of these are issues which you could easily adopt within the range of your own policies, if you were really interested in the next day for the good of the rural world, and if in this context and your own strategy, there was the main idea that the primary sector is a real pillar of the recovery of our national economy. But if anyone sees what has happened and what you may try to respond, Minister, I am sure that the finding will be in the opposite direction. I hope even at the very last moment that the government sees a real need for a very large social group, a key pillar in our economy, but also the absolute need - especially in the period of the economic crisis - for Greece to take advantage of its own basic advantages, its own comparative advantages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u151	Before giving the floor to the Minister, let me make a statement. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty students and students and two educational attendants from the 4th High School of Neapolis Thessaloniki. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] On behalf of the Government, the Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr Apostleou has the floor. In the course of your dentistry, as we have agreed, Mr. Minister, it will be covered by Mr. Tsironis and then Mr. Kokkalis. Here, Mr Apostle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u152	In fact, I do not want to turn the question into general parliamentary control and, indeed, to the rural area. I want - and thank you for giving me the opportunity - to inform the rural world, through Parliament, of the course of the new Agricultural Programme 2014-2020. I cannot, however, dwell on the difference between the agreements you have signed and the one that we are bringing. Do not forget, ladies and gentlemen, that your agreements have brought Greek GDP down by at least 30%. On the contrary, we bring an agreement, which has no budgetary costs, with measures and countermeasures, and at the same time leads the country out of the crisis. Within a year or a half of a year Greece will forget the memos and we will have entered what we call productive reconstruction, the development of the place where, as I will prove in my speech, the rural area will have a primary role. When I opened the relevant dossier on the Rural Development Programme in January 2015, which you, colleagues, in good cooperation with your PASOK colleagues, of course, had tabled as a plan - I repeat, as a plan - in July 2014 to the European Commission, I found such and so many comments that needed re-negotiation and re-negotiation. Therefore, following painful and intensive consultations, the programme that we are currently implementing was indeed approved in December 2015, these 4.7 billion Community participation, which, with private participation and public spending, will reach the 6 billion funds that will be rescheduled for the rural area. It was our goal and it is, all the measures in the programme to be integrated into the overall national planning that we have for the rural area, but we have also agreed with the institutions, which you must not forget when we submitted this competitiveness plan to you in the relevant Committee on Production and Trade and agreed to be in a positive direction. These must not be forgotten. Therefore, because of your own curiosity, the first two years of implementation of the new programme have been lost. We, in the sixteen months from its adoption to this day, have done a great deal, in quite a difficult social and economic situation. We have carried out all the preparatory actions required, both for the inclusion and payment of the commitments made in the new programming period - that means 1,25 billion commitments from the previous programme, which you have not been able to absorb - and, of course, for the establishment of the institutional framework for the implementation of the measures and actions in the new programme and for the planning for its immediate implementation. These are the same: the new management and control system, the new establishment plan for special services, the allocation of funds to the regions - don't forget, I will refer to it in detail below - and, of course, the selection measures and criteria which should certainly be served by the Monitoring Committee. I, ladies and gentlemen, will answer you with numbers that may tire, but they are responding to a document. First of all, you have accused us of requesting much more than that available. That's something I don't understand. Is it negative that there is an interest in the rural world, which wants to be involved and, of course, is there more than that available? We are barely able, on criteria and conditions, to serve as best our aim, which is the real agri-food complex. So, if we were to bring about equal amounts of demands with what we have, would you see that as something positive? I don't understand you. In the context of the 2014-2020 Programme, therefore, the misappropriated obligations that we inherited from you have been included. And, of course, many measures have been launched so far, with the most important of these local development 'Leader', for fishing, for the installation of young farmers, where the process of assessing applications by the regions, which is expected to be completed in June, has already been launched. It is true that we had a problem with regard to the State Aid Information System. There was a delay, which was restored and we're already working. As you insist on young farmers, let's see what our goal is. Our aim is not only to incorporate young farmers, but above all to support them in the next two years, three years through improvement plans and, in particular, through a public land where, through the agency that we have set up, we want to use the rural land to put young farmers in place.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u153	You are last in Europe!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u154	Please! There are discussions and people are particularly interested in getting into agriculture, because the rural area has this attraction, there is a sensitivity to it. But you know what? With regard to the first year and the second year - this has been the case with what you have been doing - nine of the ten farmers left the second year. Our aim is for farmers to actually enter for at least five, six, seven years, and we will monitor them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u155	Is that why you're leaving them unpaid?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u156	And that's why I'm telling you that both with the improvement plans and the land we're going to give them will be able to really work. But these are for you letters, which you cannot understand. You mentioned organic farming in particular. You will be answered by the Deputy Minister, who has dealt with this matter. Really, because there was this big demand, where did you guys get it from that it's negative? We have barely said that a small piece will be given from there on and the measure will be re-launched, having as the criteria what we want to take from the space. And what we want to get from the space is not to incorporate as many as possible. Incorporate those who allow us to serve biological, quality agriculture and livestock. That is the objective, not as much as possible to share the money from there and we are not interested in efficiency. Other measures have already been announced. If I don't waste time, I'm just telling you that I'm filing a table, you can take it. And the table shows that the measures which have so far been announced are 1,68 billion, I repeat, 1,68 billion. Take the situation to see in detail.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u157	What is it? Proclamation or absorption?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u158	It's the proclamation of the measures.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u159	9%?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u160	Don't be in a hurry. Everything will be said here. We haven't published anything, 1,68 billion. We're telling you that we're going to publish them. I'll see you around. If we don't, do you know where we're going? At 2,93 billion, i.e. 50% of the public expenditure of the programme in just sixteen months from its adoption. That's the reality. And I'm coming to the payroll. First of all, I would like to point out that absorption for 2015 was the best of the 2007-2013 programming period, touching the figure of 780 million. We absorbed it, it was about a programming period that you were committed to doing it. We did it. This was the best period of the previous rural development programme.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u161	There was a dynamic, that's why.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u162	Please don't interfere.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u163	Good. As you wish to interpret them. That absorption was made by us in 2015. For 2016, the first year of implementation of the programme, absorption amounted to EUR 657 million. And you know what your best year was? It was 2014 with 525 million. So you understand, because you want to compare and I will have other comparisons down there, to see what absorption is. And I come to the ranking, which is constantly being presented. And I really don't understand you. You're stuck in a number. I am in this situation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u164	Okay, now...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u165	Don't do that, you're talking about alchemys or stuff. This is the situation of the European Commission, where, through the situation, our country does not have a good position. But, from the last to 17th and with an absorption rate of more than 12%, you realize that it has nothing to do with what you, as figures, were saying. In total, because we need to see what we have done in these sixteen months, so we have payments that exceed EUR 720 million. With the payments we are waiting for, because slowly, as you can see, working increasingly and creating better conditions - we will have in the first two years of implementing the 1.5 billion payments programme, that is, for 2016 and 2017 we are planning to have 1.5 billion payments. Of course, for the three years as a whole, if we put in 2015, then we have more than 2.2 billion public spending, resources directed at the Greek economy and the primary sector in particular. [[The President-in-Office takes over here by the third Vice-President of the Parliament, Mrs Cristolouloupou.]] We therefore also have a programme, which relates to notices in the coming months, important measures: the measure for producer groups. The sub-measure for investments related to the impact of climate change. The measure of the Agricultural Counsellors, which will be published early autumn. Three hundred structures will be created throughout the country and more than a thousand geotechnics will be employed. One of you referred to the part-time work of geotechnics. Do you forget that this arrangement was brought by you and memoranda committed the country in 2013? And we did try to remove it, but the pressure is too great, because you have committed the country. Also, there have been many pre-publishments, such as pre-publishing on nitrate, pre-publishing on improvement plans. That means we're at the final stage to publish. However, I would particularly like to point out that there will be some delay there. We believe that this heresy can be dealt with as quickly as possible and concerns the irrigation projects that do need and are important for our country. There is the hereditability of updating the management plans of river basins and water invoicing. These are issues for which we will be in touch with the Ministry of the Environment, so that we can close this chapter as quickly as possible, in order to respond to the very important demands and needs that relate to irrigation. So we estimate that by the end of 2017 the calls for new measures will exceed 3 billion. It has been said that we have zero absorption in relation to the fisheries programme. A total of EUR 33.3 million has been entered into the programme so far, concerning a national fisheries data collection programme. This thing never bothered you. You are all constantly talking about stocks and no move has been made so far, so that we can have these fisheries data, so that we can pursue a policy on specific elements. At the same time, two local development strategies were adopted in the context of the implementation of the integrated maritime policy and three other operations will be integrated. In other words, we have completed the procedures, which show that by September 2017 we will have activated at least 80% of the ESDP measures, which correspond to public expenditure of EUR 420 million. So don't tell us that we have neglected a programme that really needs the fishing grounds. You mention in your question that we have no cooperation with the European Investment Bank. The least I can tell you is you're not watching us. You know that? You just want to be misled. Cooperation with the European Investment Bank has already been initiated on the financial instruments of the Rural Development Programme. This cooperation will lead to the establishment of a fund which will facilitate the implementation of private investments, which have been integrated into rural development programmes measures such as improvement, processing, Leader actions, etc. The overall contribution of the rural development programme may be up to a maximum of 7% of the programme's resources. In your rural development programme 2007-2013 - because we must compare them - the respective actions have led to the creation of the Agricultural Entrepreneurship Fund. Those who are involved in the rural area, who have failed to fulfil their objectives, will be particularly remembered, thereby committing themselves to and staying inactive, without taking advantage of EUR 115 million in the rural development programme. They were lost because you were unable to obtain the relevant absorption from this fund. This absorption has only reached EUR 5 million. The rest of the money was necessarily released and lost. I come to another point which sincerely shows that, not only do you want to misinform, but above all shows that you want to keep muddling. In cooperation with the regions, have you honestly not realised that we have allocated 37.5% of the resources of the rural development programme, namely 1.2 billion for a set of interventions in cooperation with regional authorities? We acted on our commitment to decentralisation by self-government. We have given resources - especially from the Ministry of Rural Development - to regional selfgovernment. I do not have time to discuss it in detail. What I want to say to you - and read it out - is that I have in my hands a press release, the meeting we held on 26 April 2017 with the Greek Committee of Regions, with the board of directors. There, therefore, it is not just a question of the important progress that is being made and the need for further development of relations between the Ministry and the regions, but it was agreed that a group - you say 'you want the predominance of power, you are in the chairs, you do not want to lose them with anything' - which will monitor and help the goal we have. What's the target? To serve the countryside, to serve the need for reproductive reconstruction and, of course, regional selfgovernment is an area that in fact has the potential and seems to want to serve together. I do not understand where you found it that we have nothing to do with the regions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u166	Because you signed a fourth memorandum. That's why. 'Cause you want to be in power. What don't you understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u167	As you have criticised the timing of activation of the corresponding measures during the previous programming period, in relation to the current programming period, I would like to say a saying to you: "The house of the hanged person is not talking about rope". Why the Agricultural Development Programme 2007-2013 - be careful please - was approved by the European Commission on 29 November 2007. That is the same year as the formal start of this programme period, contrary to the new rural development programme, adopted on 14 December 2015, i.e. one year after the year of formal launch of the programming period. I told you what the responsibility was, what we found and what we did. I mention indicative examples of measures to see what was your delay and what was ours. The improvement plan, since you have referred to it. It was made by the previous government only one call in 2011, i.e. four years after the adoption of the programme. We are in the sixteen months, and now, within the days, we are proclaiming this. Private investment in Axis 3, OPASC. The first call for the year 2010, i.e. three years after the first investment costs were paid in 2012, i.e. five years after the programme was adopted. We have seen that 'Leader'. The signing of the contracts with local action groups took place in 2010, i.e. three years later, the first ones were made, with the first investment expenditure, to be paid in 2013, i.e. six years after the adoption of the programme. Ladies and gentlemen, do not distort a reality which everyone sees, and you really want through a process of counterfeiting and misleading, to serve other objectives. The aim at this time for us - and I think it is a challenge for the whole political world, because that shows the general interest that exists - is to support rural areas. I am telling you this because none of you have heard of what is happening in the rural area. What do Eurostat data show? That the rural area has gone upwards. Do you want me to tell you that in 2016, out of the twenty-eight countries - members of the European Commission, thirteen countries have an increase in income, with our country being in the third place, while the other fifteen countries have a reduction? Can you not see what happens with the export performance of the rural area, where only in fruit and vegetables we had 1.6 million tonnes, a decade-old record? Do you not see, then, that there is, in particular in exports, an increase, which has reached 9 billion agricultural products, food in general, of the 18, total exports? So do you not see that there is such a tendency in the rural area now, reports, meetings where things go in another direction? I would therefore like to remind you once again that you cannot agree when we enter the process of approaching plans and competitiveness and the next day to go out and say that there is nothing in this area. We will continue along a path, which will have as a reference the rural area, because only the rural area, with the advantages it has, is the country's only rural area, which can take the lead in our efforts to get the country out of the crisis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u168	Thank you, Minister. Now begins the circle of speeches of the Parliamentary representatives. Mr. Kefaliannis has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, Madam President. You will allow me to begin with some introductory remarks about the speech I have heard from the Minister. It will allow me to tell him that unprecedented things have been heard. In other words, we have heard that for the two years the New Democracy is to blame. So he has no idea who is a government and who is opposition or possibly in his mind that he will soon be in opposition again. For example, we were moved by the press release with the Union of Regions, saying that there is progress. If he reads this press release well, he'll see there's a will to make progress. Progress has not been made, Minister. Theoretically, unfortunately, wishes, which I, of course, am not surprised about, because a life on the left was: analyses and theoretical discussions and acts. But what I never expected of a government minister is to submit to the practically untrue evidence, not to say false evidence. Really, Minister, that's how I see it, in organic farming, is 443 million invitations? Have you been well informed by your Ministry's services? Is it at least half that, 221 million? Take a good look at it and I'll wait for a reply from Mr. Tsironi. Ladies and gentlemen, for the period 2014-2020 Greece had the opportunity to absorb around EUR 5 billion from Europe for measures for the European economy and the rural economy, which the previous government ensured, the Samara Government. You will remember well, ladies and gentlemen, from SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks how much criticism had been made at that time in the government. Now fortunately, the Minister says that on the basis of these billions, which were secured by the previous government, farmers' incomes were increased. We will see, of course, both with taxation and with the insurance contributions how much this income has increased in the end. But we all remember in this Chamber the terrible debates, the terrible criticism that has been made. Of this amount, 25% is for investment, restructuring and modernisation of agricultural holdings, but also for the processing sector and 8% will be used for rural and business development. To do this, what does this mean to the rural economy? It means that seven and a half thousand farms could receive support for restructuring and modernisation investments for an overall expenditure of over 560 million. It means that fourteen thousand beneficiaries could receive aid from newly created businesses for young farmers, with a total investment of 300 million, i.e. about EUR 1 billion could be invested in assets. Of course, Minister, as Commissioner Hogan pointed out during his visit last October, this is not going to happen automatically. One must work effectively for the successful and timely implementation of this programme. If you do not understand that, that is why we are monitoring you here today. We have waited for concrete answers and instead we have heard a more general and general position. We control you, why two and a half years from taking power, seven months from the visit of the Commissioner responsible to our country, dozens of questions and reports from Opposition on agricultural issues have been raised and we wonder: do you not want, can you not or can both at the same time? Can you contribute, to the extent that is the case, so that this place can take a step further, to leave the misery of recession and unemployment? Several colleagues on the New Democracy side pointed out one to one of the mistakes and omissions, so that the existing rural development programme could run faster. As serious as this is, so are the excuses, lies, uncertainties and myths, which the SYRIZA and Independent Greek Government have been cultivating for two and a half years to cover its inadequacy. But we must not, Minister, let it go like this. We really need to stand up and show it to the Greek citizens to show the scope and size of this deception. At first - you said it in your position - you claimed that you found a immature programme, which you updated with your own proposals and which was there by the end of 2015. The so-called updated programme includes exactly the same measures, actions and the same and incomplete budget, with the only difference that its funds have to do with the loss of EUR 900 million from the 2007-2013 programme, which were transferred as a bridge to the new 2014-2020 programme, due to unjustified delays, old-fashioned and unacceptable indifference shown by your government. Obviously, all this government was moving towards constellation of the Baroufakis negotiation. The famous half-year of 2015. Let me remind you - other speakers have said so - that by May 2015 twenty-five of the twenty-eight Member States of the European Union had approved their programmes. You only approved it at the end of 2015. Of course, some of this was lately paid in 2016. We're going on aid payments. You claimed a record of payments. But you forgot to tell us that of these 3.7 billion paid in 2016, about 1 billion is about clearing the basic payment for 2015, which was very late in 2016. Let's tell the whole truth. As regards, of course, the smooth payment of these aids, you have barely managed to pay part of the advance and basic payment in December 2015 and the liquidation next year, and to date there are thousands of producers waiting for the single payment for 2015. I have not heard anything about it, Minister. Let's go to absorption. I can't believe you took her out about 12%. I mean, about 650 million. What have you got in there? The EUR 300 million that is part of the EUR 902 million committed for the period 2007-2013, which again due to the government default in 2015, were transferred to the new programming period? Of course, it has led to a 21% reduction in expenditure on the new programme. And that's your exclusive responsibility. Did you put the 350 million people involved in the payment of the compensation, compensation, which has been a normal procedure in recent years? How exactly do you measure absorption? August 2016. You are telling us that you will now have five new measures in relation to the programme in addition to compensation and compensation, i.e. processing, young farmers, organic farming and livestock farming, the plans to improve the deposit of young farmers. The measure of young farmers is unfortunately inactivated. You have been told by colleagues in the New Democracy. You have unfortunately chosen again to surprise us, since for the first time the results will come out after the initial start of the OSCE statements which expired on 15 May. Fortunately, only yesterday was a decision taken by the European Commissioner to go for 15 June. As far as the processing is concerned, while the consultation on the Ministerial Decision has been completed since the end of 2016, you have only succeeded in opening one of the three actions last week. Of course, for the rest, God has. Organic crops. You presented the measure as a tip of the spear to take advantage of the country's comparative advantages and to move towards an exotic and competitive agriculture and livestock farming. That is your statement. I shall add a simple question to what my colleagues have said. Why have two extensions been made, in an action which had clearly been overhauled by the initial final date for the submission of applications? Where are the livestock farmers, Minister? You referred them to the bells. You have excluded existing and new farmers who have spent time and money in order to be able to meet the programme conditions and improve their product. And, of course, this unprecedented decision affects existing farmers, who are repentant between conventional and organic livestock farming and deprives the possibility of qualitative upgrading of products, those who have attempted to join the programme for the first time. As far as the agricultural advisers are concerned - I read from the Minutes of the debate on the agricultural sector at the level of the leaders of parties held last January - 'A thousand geotechnics will be sent over the next five years within the three hundred structures to be created in the province. Within two years, we put another seal in the rural area." We're still looking for this seal, Minister. The measure of agricultural advisers has not been declared to date two years later. I could, of course, mention a lot else about the measure concerning the investment in self-production and the sub-measure, which concerns the management of plant residues of the olive-growing branches - of which, of course, luck is ignored and which you had presented as a way of balancing the loss of income of the olive-producing producers' rights - the measure to reconstitute the damaged capital on the holdings, which you deliberately misunderstood is related to the insurance of plant, animal and fixed capital. As I referred to the issue of insurance, we should, of course, inform the farmers that everything but the compensation of the EPGF for 2016 has been paid, which you also argue has happened for the first time. Come on, you yourself on the ELGA page, Minister, see that compensation is still pending from summer and autumn 2016 for hail damages and windstorms. I am afraid, Mr Minister, that as much as the government's failure to effectively absorb Community funds in the agricultural sector, another as great is shown by the government's deception of farmers and farmers on this issue. Of course, I wish you only confined yourself to it. You are constantly trying to convince us that you have a picture of the situation that Greek producers are experiencing. You personally had signed a hundred and ninety-three questions, asking for problems to be solved in the primary sector. Really, which of these problems have been solved on your own behalf? I would sincerely like you to tell us, respecting the day-to-day battle of farmers and farmers in the country, which of these problems, which you yourself put as a Member of the SYRIZA Officer with a hundred and ninety-three questions, have solved as Minister. In February 2013, Mr. Tsipras said, addressing the farmers: "as long as there is a memorandum and a troika, a perspective for the farmer does not exist". Of course, it brought us a third memorandum and the next few days it will also bring us the fourth memorandum. You will tell me this is not the only inconsistency of Mr Tsipras, but I am tabling this, so that we do not forget what happened in this Chamber in previous years. You have taxed subsidies from the first euro with a tax rate of 22% to 45% with more than doubled insurance contributions, with VAT that you took to 24% and with the abolition of the refund of the excise duty on oil for agricultural use. Only to guarantee a pension right will farmers pay 14% of their income in 201, to reach 20% from 2022 onwards, at the same time as they pay about 7% of their income to meet their health needs. And just a few minutes ago, Minister, I read - announced by the Centre for the Collection of Insurance contributions - that the debts to the ECA, for the first quarter of 2017 alone, ladies and gentlemen, increased by EUR 5 billion. They went to 23 billion, in other words. And this is the result of your inability. You even taxed wine. You have reached a dynamic and exporting industry - since you mentioned exports - which you left a hail in its fate. In a few days' time, you will be bringing the fourth memorandum to the vote, bringing up the total number of measures in the current government to EUR 12.5 billion. Apart from the reduction in duty, which will of course affect farmers too, I do not really know what else we will see in this agreement. You should let us know. I, Mr President-in-Office and fellow Members, make a personal appeal and with it I close: stop mocking. Stop treating the primary sector exclusively as a taxi machine. Finally, understand that your decisions, your inertia, your uncertainty, your ideology, your inability, directly threaten the viability of the primary sector, a sector of particular importance to the Greek economy, a sector that could really be the engine of the Greek economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u170	Madam President, I would like to speak, please, for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u171	About what? To answer, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u172	To restore something that has been said...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u173	You want to answer that question. Don't detract from reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u174	Is it something personal?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u175	You want the dentistry, which you gave the alternates.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u176	You don't need so much fanaticism. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u177	He said Mr. Kefaliannis threw me in when Commissioner Hogan was here. No more untrue. Refer to his speech at the Economist's conference in Thessaloniki where you will see that he said: "We have not had the cooperation with all previous governments until today, the good cooperation we have with today and especially, of course..."
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u178	It is well known that you are the good kids of the lenders.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u179	So, uh...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u180	It's known you signed everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u181	Ladies and gentlemen, you see your function. I said that on the one hand, because we are the ones who are, on the other hand, working with the lenders, on the other hand, blame us for being in conflict with them, that we have a relationship of controversy. And that's what we really do. But you don't understand one thing. You do not understand that cooperation means haunting and at the same time serving the main objective. All this, therefore, which we are putting forward and which we are constantly putting together, is an objective, namely, how we will best serve the rural area, let alone within a common agricultural policy. I think you know our main direction, too. Our main aim is to absorb resources as quickly as possible and at the same time, of course, without fines and charges. So why do you not take responsibility for the fact that the rural area has 3 billion unfinished areas for which we are fighting great battles so that we can eliminate them? You've all forgotten that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u182	Thank you, Mr. Apostle. The Parliamentary Representative of SYRIZA Mr Nikolaos Xydakis calls for his absence from abroad from 12 May to 14 May 2017 in order to participate in a conference in Berlin. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u183	The House therefore approved the requested permission. The SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative has the floor for six minutes. Everyone else will have six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u184	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the following observations have so far been made: Firstly, there is a lack of basic consensus and consensus on such a large national issue as the reconstruction of our country's agricultural sector. Secondly, lack of self-criticism for acts, mistakes and omissions that led to the dissolution of the primary production and the major cooperatives in the country, as well as the wrong manipulations in the feta case in 2013. Thirdly, a lack of alternative proposal for the development of our country's agriculture and livestock farming, key pillars of productive reconstruction and the creation of national wealth. I think it is appropriate to repeat in the committee responsible for the production and trade of this House an honest discussion on the basis of national understanding on both the future of primary production and the tragic and irreparable mistakes of the past, particularly in the cooperative area. It is no coincidence that today our country is a deficit in the main agricultural products. We import 65% of cow's milk, 90% of beef, 65% of pork and 30% of poultry. These imports exceed EUR 2.5 billion per year, with what this implies in the country's trade balance. It is not, of course, the analysis of the long pathogen of the agricultural issue in Greece. But what has happened in our country over the last thirty years does not precede the European rural economy and primary production: the break-up of European resources, sinful loans of ATE, PAVAT and AS Larissa scandals, the sale of top cooperatives, such as DONNEY, because of political interventions, cooperatives such as SKAP, SEPEK, and formerly the CYPE, the Federation of ELAUURGIC, MELISCOMIC etc. Unfortunately, there is no end to the long list of the shame of all three thousand seal cooperatives who have been abused public money and have blackened the institution of the cooperative idea in our country. More than EUR 5 billion is estimated for the damage suffered by the State by the illegal lending of ATE between 2000 and 2012, on the basis of a finding of the Ice Arena that investigated cases such as that of BAVAT. But what we are doing from now on is what we are doing. The reconstruction of the country's primary production, the main pillar of productive reconstruction, cannot be carried out with anachronistic concepts outside the European framework and a lack of regional planning, a national strategy for our national products, modern cooperatives that operate on private criteria, as well as with a total reversal of today's agriculture and livestock farming relationship, with emphasis on sheep and goats and livestock plants. The change in the production model of the country with the aim of improving the adequacy and production of branded PDOs, traditional products and geographical indication of high nutritional and quality products is a one-way pathway. The link between primary production and tourism, culture and national gastronomy will highlight our comparative advantages at national and regional level. My reference to support for and development of sheep production is not made for reasons of history, but because sheep milk is the basis of feta. Today world demand amounts to five hundred thousand tonnes. Greek production is close to ninety-two thousand, of which some forty-three are exported. In particular, following the latest developments in the agreements between the European Union and third countries, support for and development of sheep and goat production, as well as the establishment of a national PDO feta protection strategy which supports the authenticity of the product and responds in the best way to the competition of white cheeses. A similar strategy is required for our other national product, oil. Unfortunately, today more than 85% of Greek production is sold in bulk and even in competition. The division of small production and the lack of modern export marketing cannot support the extroversion and entry of the product at the major retail points. Partnerships, partnerships and contractors are required to secure quantity and promote with the support of a national brand name. An important role in the reconstruction of the rural sector and development must be played by regional spatial planning, provided that modern regional programmes with innovative and extroverted regional development models, tested in other countries of the European South, are developed. This has also been demonstrated by the previous meeting of the Prime Minister with the thirteen regional authorities on the national dialogue on productive reconstruction. Ladies and gentlemen, it is well known to everyone that the problems facing the Greek economy today have roots in the pathogens of previous decades, one of which has been the distorted productive model of the past. Addressing these pathogenesis is an act of responsibility for all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u185	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to read out a communication. I have the honour to inform the House that, following Protocol No 1829/27/04-2017, the President of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Fotini Gennamata, proposed, in accordance with Rule 44(1) of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, the establishment of the Intergroup of Parliamentary Parliamentary Committee on Journalism. The Conference of Presidents at its meeting on 4 May 2017 unanimously endorsed the proposal. For the sake of effective functioning of the committee, it is proposed that it should be set up to include twenty-three members, in proportion to the power of the parties and the independent MPs. The Committee's report shall be submitted by the end of the current session. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u186	The House therefore unanimously agreed, deciding to set up the Intergroup Parliamentary Committee on Journalism, in accordance with Rule 44(1) of the Rules of Procedure and with a deadline for submitting the report by 31 October 2017. This proposal will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u187	The parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Incorporation, Mr Theocharopoulos, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, Madam President. Indeed, it is a very important initiative that we have taken to set up a Intergroup Committee on Demographic Demographics and is of course related to today's issue, the agricultural sector and the stay of the rural population in rural work and how we can finally put another development plan for the country. It is very good that our proposal has been accepted and this debate will be opened in the Intergroup. The SYRIZA Parliamentary Group is once again meeting. For how many months SYRIZA and SYRIZA have been negotiating the evaluation and negotiation and the memorandum. And really, we wonder. If he was going to bring us such a memorial, why was he delaying? The measures agreed are incomprehensible. I heard you a moment ago say that within a year and a half Greece will come out of the memos. "So, if you think so" with what you've signed. I can't tell you anything else. You signed a pension reduction and a tax reduction and a lot of other data after 2019, after that one year and a half, that is, you have signed them, and your government comes to plenary and says that after a year and a half we will have made the country with this agreement from the memoranda! You put her deeper into the memoirs. You put her deeper into the crisis. That's the reality. Anyway, a little serious about what we're talking about! It is not possible today to continue the fairy tale of the neutral financial result, when you are going to such measures at the moment, when the Minister of Finance of this government said that he would have resigned today if the tax had fallen into this amount. And he hasn't given up yet. Your government continues to think that it can convince the Greek people with lies. If you think that citizens are currently customers, if you have this perception of the citizens of the country, you make a big mistake. Of course, all this on the memorandum and on the agreement have a direct impact on the agricultural sector. I have heard you say that it is essentially the opposition two years before you came. You are still opposed to opposition today, while here you are at the headquarters of the government, and you must answer why some things do not go ahead. This is your role and this is not what your Government is responding to. You have moved all this time into unacceptable measures. The taxation of agricultural income at rates which do not apply in any other country. In the tax advance at 100%. In the VAT on agricultural supplies, you said you would reduce him from 13%, because that was too high - the highest in the Eurozone - and you reached 23% and 24% since 1 January 2017. You were talking about insurance and you basically went through the triple of insurance contributions and the abolition of the OGA, while you had to deal with the existing problems, separate welfare from farmers, and, of course, you could move on, as you were told at that time, with three funds. You have not presented any rural development plan for all this time, no agricultural production plan. You found 19 billion euros for this seven-year period. Some of you negotiated before you the money is there at the moment. You are one of the few Ministries where you have to give money and not actually take. And you don't use, you don't give this money, and basically, it takes money, through taxation, your government. We told you that because you abolish the refund for agricultural oil, you should introduce agricultural diesel. You did not. On 3 November 2015, we brought an amendment to the Agricultural Oil Card, which is done in other countries, based on acres and the type of cultivation. That's not what you heard. You no longer have an alibi to negotiate. I'm not saying it, Mr. Apostleu and Mr. Chironi. Your Prime Minister told you yesterday at the Ministerial Council. There is no alibi to say one thing or another. The country's rural development must be a lever of productive reconstruction, otherwise we will stand still, we will have deficits, even where we have added value. Of course, you know that I am very well aware of the specific issues of the rural development programme and of my professional activity, but also because of my term of office for a year as Special Secretary for Community Resources and Infrastructure at the Ministry of Rural Development and Food in the Rural Development Programme. Many of the elements you give me - I do not want to comment on the table you have given - do not actually apply. So let me tell you this. You could not even admit the failure of organic farming. I was surprised you didn't say that we made some mistakes here. In essence, organic producers have all remained at home in plant and animal production, in agriculture and in livestock farming. And you basically said:. Why does the opposition also blame us on this matter? Why do we have more applicants than money? But that's exactly the opposite. Because you have money for these measures, you have taken the procedure back and it does not go any further. You do not solve the information system issue. You have not, in fact, made progress these two years in decentralisation, in regional services. You have not even moved on to 37%, to really implement it, to run, to give, to decentralise, to solve bureaucracy problems. You remember that, when it had happened in the past, improvement plans were also run at some point. Some problems have been solved when some procedures have gone to the elected regions. Of course, you have not made any progress on the issue of consultancy services, on agricultural advisers, and on unemployment issues, of course, with regard to the sectors which can be involved. It's European money untreated. The farmer, however, wants agricultural advice at the moment. And civil servants, who are trying very little right now to do their job, are not enough. So you have money right now to get people to work in the private sector with agricultural advisers and you don't do it. You do not even move on to what you are ready for innovation and training. You haven't moved on. Of course, in matters of political land, why did you refer here, even though you have done nothing? On earth's issues, you said, the service. But there's nothing going on. Young farmers cannot get money, European money, guaranteed money, to get into the profession. We cannot in organic farming and in other forms, such as integrated management and other quality systems, make use of resources right now in our country. You said that in election. And of course, you come here and say, for example, that the best year was in 2015. Well, now I don't want to comment on too many specific issues - and I could, you know - of what you said. But the year after the n+2, the seven plus two years of the period, you say that you made the greatest use of resources - because the year that has the greatest absorption throughout Europe is the year ending the n+2- then I really think this is underestimated both by the Greek Parliament and by farmers and citizens. In conclusion, I should like to say that you and the Prime Minister were also calling for an election on the agricultural sector, but you were also saying post-election, in relation to what you are doing now. In February, you said 'not to create revenue and expenditure books'. You continued and said in February 2015: “Reduction of the price of oil to the creation of agricultural oil”, “Reinstatement of a third pension”, “reform of the insurance”. And, of course, we didn't understand then what a reform of insurance means. Now, with the pension reduction we've seen it. The Prime Minister said: "When the elections take place, they forget their promises and the saviours hide."
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u189	Come on, Mr. Theocharopoulos, it's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u190	I shall conclude, Madam President. Mr Tsipras also said: "There had to be cheap oil, cheap electricity and liquidity in the producer. We cannot reconstruct the rural economy without cheap electricity and oil. We cannot free shipowners and farmers from paying." That's what Mr. Tsipras said. And today you said that in a year and a half the country would be better than today. I will close with Abraham Lincoln's posse: "You can make fun of many for a while, a few for a long time, but you can't make fun of many forever." Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u191	Mr Michhos from the People's Association - Golden Dawn, for six minutes. I would ask that we keep the time, because we have to finish sometime. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u192	Thank you, Madam President. Time is, of course, too short on such serious issues. I have not heard any of today's speakers speak of Marfin. Today is the anniversary. People were lost, lost their lives from fires deliberately made. Nobody spoke. Innocent defendants after all these years! Didn't these people have a soul? Golden Dawn, however, went. Honor the victims. And here there are pictures of a scumbag named Constantine, a man who has never worked in his life, a lazy dog in society, who was there throwing molotov bombs.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u193	Mr. Mijo, please. It doesn't make any sense now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u194	Please very much. You can see them. Here's the photos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u195	What can I see? What does this picture have to do with the subject we're talking about? Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u196	They're in charge, and I don't get any talk back about a man who's only to hurt our homeland and his fellow humans. You can put these in the Minutes too, if the House remembers next year and does something to honor these people. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Michos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents and photographs, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I was in the Committee on Research and Technology the other day. The first speaker, Mr Arsenos, said that today agricultural production is at 3% of GDP. I asked him to make sure and he said yes. Does anyone here remember that this was the agreement to enter the EEC on Constantine Karamanlis, who continued and signed it and Andreas Papandreou? And today we have come to be agricultural production, the primary sector to 3% of GDP, with a downward trend! I have listened very carefully to the spokesmen of the New Democracy, Mr Karayannis. We agree with a lot you said, Mr Karayannis. But you've been a government since 2015. There have been too many - to say more popular - dishonesty with cooperatives, with subsidies to farmers who were not farmers, with 'Don' and others. Have you done anything? Shouldn't some people have sat on the stool? billions have been eaten, not millions. But - I say - on the other hand, the then chunks of PASOK have now come to you and cover them? I had mentioned to Mr. Apostolos a case that I will say, because this thing has never happened before. Let me remind you of Mistro, Mr. Apostle, of the corn, of the two and a half thousand water pouring in a mountain downhill with stone. People signed there, hatreds went to politicians, hatred went to the people of the Union and no one was punished. And this has been done throughout Greece. I mention this because it has been discussed everywhere. I heard New Democracy talking about a shrinking of the primary sector, of primary production, and I would like to ask - although there is only one of the New Democracy present in the Chamber at the moment - how much of the gentlemen of the New Democracy have they forgotten about the government that they were, how much of their pieces of dogfish financed for naturally the ministers, MPs and the fertile land to make photovoltaic parks to sit down and collect? God gave it to us to produce, not to set up parks and collect. Did the New Democracy - because it also asked the timely question - that it was subsidising the grubbing-up of vineyards, olive trees and many others, and today we have become here that we have become? You were funding. In Karystos many vineyards, in Mytilini trees hundreds of years, have been eradicated. In the Peloponnese, the same. On the one hand, it says about new crops, that is, some olive groves from Spain, which are hybrid and what the producer produces, that is, from an oil that is clean water, gives it to medicines. Did you forget that you brought the memos, that you signed? I heard about the memorials before, about the fourth memorial. First, second, third. So, we only got the fourth one? Is only SYRIZA responsible? It's PASOK, isn't it? Isn't New Democracy? Some others brought them along and some go on. These are the orders. Who sold the Agricultural Bank in Piraeus and became private, along with the farmers' loans, along with the farmers' mortgaged land? Who did this? Even Mr Tsavritaris came to the point of going to make a deal with "MONSANTO", to sell the bank with the Greek seeds in northern Greece, but last minute the agreement was not made. You continue and are all here in favour of the CAP, the common agricultural policy. What has the common agricultural policy helped our country, can anyone tell us? In imposing what we will sow, what will we produce, how much milk will our country produce, how much flour will our country produce, how much meat will our country produce? I will give you an example for the agricultural sector from 1974 to today. Greece until the end of 1979 had sufficient agricultural products and its agricultural balance was positive. Since 1981 it has received from the EEC, the present European Union, around EUR 100 billion for the development of the agricultural sector. Farmers and farmers took little of this money. The result was a severe fall in the agricultural balance, i.e. the dissolution of the agricultural sector, since from adequacy in our agricultural products until the end of the 1970s we fell to an adequacy of about 30% and food imports increased. Beef and veal 80% import, legume 70%, cow's milk 60%, flour 70%, pigmeat 70%. Is that how we're gonna go forward? If the government does not reduce taxes, it does not reinstate agricultural oil, it does not finance young farmers, and if it does not do national policy, and it does not stop listening to the European Union's orders - because they have brought us here today, and the purpose is to go back to the tickets, where today's looters will be the multinational companies that have come into the market for our homeland, our land and our homes - then you will not do anything. If you don't step foot, Minister, if you don't give money to start production, you don't do anything. And, as we see to this day, instead of doing what you say is the opposite. Yes, but what do you do about it? Will the European Union continue to impose us? Do we have a pimp above our head in everything, in everything, in the economy, in our agricultural production, in our livestock production? Don't go on like the ones you blamed, if you want to do something. Pull your own bakery, so that we can call it more popular, so that the economy can rise and, anyway, the farmer can stand on his feet and raise the head up, as he once was. Because without agricultural production we are finished and the aim of the multinationals is to end us, to depend on everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u197	The parliamentary representative of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Moraitis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u198	Thank you, Madam President. With today's question for farmers, farmers and fishermen, the New Democracy wants to show that it cares about their problems, that it is not indifferent to the suffering they are experiencing. But you cannot hide your class policy. You have not found a word about the barbaric anti-agricultural policy of the European Union and the common agricultural policy, which is pushing violently every day to unleash thousands of poor medium-sized farm households. You have not found a word about the high cost of production, the low prices, the indemnity of industrialists, the traders of agricultural products, the discussion about the tax burden on agricultural income, the tax advance at 100%. Here we must stress that last year, after the grand struggles for fifty days of poor medium-sized farms, they earned the tax-free amount and now you get it back with the fourth memorandum. Poor farmers must draw conclusions that only their struggle will overthrow this barbaric policy. You have not told us anything about the carpets of ELGA, OGA, UFLAF, HISFIA in the mantillas, warehouses, pastures, farmers' homes, the increase in VAT in the media and supplies, feed, agricultural current, agricultural oil, the abolition of the refund on agricultural oil, the toweling of compensatory subsidies, the related aid. That is not what you are talking about, because you are accomplices, co-responsible with these policies. You have served them and served them. You voted on them in the third memorandum, along with SYRIZA - ANEL, with the other parties on the Euromono street. This is the paradise that you had set up in the farm, and nowadays it experiences poverty and extinction! Where do you focus your counterpopulation? In that you're better managers, that SYRIZA-ANEL colluding does not progress fast. Examination will be given to commercial industrialists, large companies active in the production, standardisation, packaging of agricultural products. You feel insecurity because the SYRIZA Government - ANEL takes the bread through your hands, it passes over you. After all, Mr Apostlelos said that not only was he surprised, but he took congratulations to Thessaloniki from the Commissioner for Agriculture. The government enjoys the confidence of large businesses. He goes through the fewer reactions to these anti-agricultural policies, does the dirty work in this area too. What do you bring today with the question? What do you care? The investment projects of the Rural Development Programme promoted by the Government and by the European Union itself. So what? Money free to the big business, to the monopolistic groups. What is the 2014-2020 Rural Development Programme? It is the development model that you are promoting in the countryside to accelerate the capitalist development of agricultural production, to strengthen profitability through competition. The promoted investment projects, which you refer to in the question, are essentially the financing of capitalist agricultural enterprises and processing enterprises for agricultural products and not small and medium-sized producers. The first part of the question is about the processing of agricultural products and you say that this will be done by professional farmers, when you and SYRIZA - ANEL have adopted recommendations from the OECD toolbox and a number of other measures. You will be able to use cheap imported raw materials with them in the processing monopolies. For example, you raised the limit on milk life at seven days, today’s coexistence did so at eleven. You have made changes to the yoghurt legislation, and now you are saying that this will allegedly give producers a way out, that it enables them to process their own products. This measure will be fruitful of capitalist farms, which have the possibility of being vertically integrated, of access to the market through the development of short supply chains or of concluding agreements with food industries, commercial centres, supermarket chains, which concern directly, without traders, intermediaries in their production. Besides, if we look at these programs, we'll see exactly what's going on. For example, there are five hundred in this programme in the number of programmes with a budget of up to 350 000. But there is also participation, which, from region to region, starts from 25% to 60%, that is to say, in order for a poor medium-sized producer to enter EUR 75 to 160 000. This fact alone is enough to understand that poor farmers, who are drowning in the debt nipple in banks, who have been unable to pay the banks, the insurance contributions of the OGA, from the fact that their industrialists are taking their beat production rather than, have nothing to expect of these programmes. On the contrary, because they cannot withstand competition, they will come to an even worse position because of the continued political fulfilment of all the claims of monopolies, processing and banks. Let's see another point of the question, where you're talking about the improvement plans. In this programme there are five thousand improvement plans, about 360 million. On average, each project reaches the seventy-two thousand, which, again, is unbearable for the poor, medium-sized farms. Of course, from these programmes, in particular the improvement plans, there is negative experience of a large number of small and medium-sized farmers who have entered them, have been charged to the banks, to ensure their own share of investment, and their overall situation has brought them to worse fate. It also refers to the question that the Organic Agricultural and Animal Farming Programmes exist. In particular, for livestock farming they have become a bridge of Arta. Those who have joined the programme for the past five years - and this is where the New Democracy is responsible - have only been paid for two years, for 2012-2013, and many of them have not been paid for five years, with the great problem of being in the bushing of forests. Despite the ambitious efforts of the few workers there, they cannot respond to the large number of applications. Although farmers have paid, they have been charged to private certification companies for the supply of organic feed, the worst of all, where you all are responsible, is that there are no biological prices in organic products, no organic slaughterhouses, stationed veterinary services and farmers are ballast in the hands of private individuals. We are not talking about this because most of it is New Democracy's day-to-day work. In particular, as regards the Organic Animal Health Programme - here it is a fraud literally - it is only a small number of farmers who will be involved in the applications they have submitted. So, what are you doing? Sell seaweed for silk ribbons. The same problems exist in a number of other programmes. This is objective in today's development path and strengthens the trend towards a productive base based on large capitalist production and unit and on verticalisation. In the face of this barbarity, there is a solution for both small and medium-sized farmers and for the people's strata, which need a primary production that ensures cheap and quality food, but this is in the different socio-economic organization from popular power, to large production, to verticalisation, but with different production relationships, centred on the large socialised unit, with centralized design and labour material outside the strands of the capitalist European Union and any other imperialist, transnational and capitalist Union. Small producers who wish to remain in production will be able to make use of the producer cooperatives, which will be radically different from the current ones, and will voluntarily join those farmers who want to remain in production. It will ensure a significant improvement in working conditions in their lives, a reduction in production costs, environmental protection, production protection, scientific technical support. This will provide the basis for a final solution to the country's food problem, with cheap and quality products and for a satisfactory income for small and medium-sized producers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u199	I would ask you once more to keep the time. The Parliamentary spokesman from Potami, Mr Dannelis, who has already consulted the other parliamentarians and will precede it. Mr. Danielle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u200	Thank you, Madam President, and thank my colleagues for their concession. Ladies and gentlemen, the European funds allocated to the agricultural sector in our country through the CAP in the first and second pillars, for the current budgetary period, are about EUR 19 billion. To take account of the fact that all the funds intended for all the structural programmes are about 16 to 17 billion. We are all aware of the importance, value and potential of these resources in an area which has a number of pathogens from the long past. It is clear that the responsibilities for these diseases do not belong to the current government. Part of this has to do with management in this two-year period of all industry-related issues, but they are going deep in the past. It is also important, ladies and gentlemen, to bear in mind that, in recent quality surveys by the international community, we have the answer that seven, if I remember correctly, among the ten Greek farmers, consider that they benefit from our membership of the European Union and from the European programmes of the CFP to be Europe rather than Greece. That alone shows the scale of the problem in relation to the real use of European funds. Because we have always been concerned about the absorption of resources and not about rational and efficient use everywhere, especially in agriculture. Today, if we want to ensure the greatest possible efficiency of our capabilities, it is necessary to get away from the failed models of the past. We need to get away from the introversion syndrome, the inertia, the delay and the irresponsible use of resources, as I said just now, but also the always present protectionism, which usually drowns every innovative effort in our country. Because the development of the Greek agri-food sector today requires knowledge, entrepreneurship, extroversion and exports. Is the state and the Ministry responsible, however, in the efforts of the agri-food sector? And your government, Mr Minister, following on from the previous ones - unfortunately, it continues with the corresponding disastrous policy of the destruction of Community funds, on the criteria of a subsidised nature, rather than the aim of directing resources into actions which will in the long term relieve Greek agriculture of that dependence, which has always characterised it. Do you, too, continue to pursue a Greek agriculture which cannot be maintained without exemptions, reliefs, compensations and rich aids from the European Union? But the regeneration of the agri-food sector, without the substantial integration of young people who have open horizons, potential for knowledge and innovation, is not meant. Competitiveness and extroversion, which is what is needed and which must be carried out rapidly in order to survive Greek agriculture and the countryside, make it essential for young farmers to be given effective support. That is why the programmes for young farmers are one of the most important, and unfortunately here we have a great deal of easiest and great disappointment from a new world, which, by choice in the time of the crisis, wants to deal with agriculture. Unfortunately, the tools don't have them. It is not only the resources, it is also institutional tools to which we are too far away. However, the creation and operation of a reliable information network that operates next to the producer, next to the farmer, the farmer, the fisherman is not at all. Perhaps today we should realise that information, scientific support and information on the business opportunities opened and running at rapid speeds must be available at all times to those who produce and it may be time to see this sector completely again. The resources are available from this CAP to set up such networks of reliable information and advice. The inequality of Greek producers in relation to their colleagues in the other European countries cannot be covered unless such an early and valid system of scientific support is created. Obviously, this goes through upgrading and the role of existing structures, such as the ETHIAG, but also the creation of new ones. This will be a major reform and a large service that is called upon to provide a first-line ministry, such as the YPAAT, to interested parties. In relation to the improvement plans, what is actually the case? At the end of March we waited for the measure to be published. Where is this issue, which so many people are interested, Minister? Of course, with regard to rural education, does anyone think that without educational programmes, Greek farmers can compete with those of Austria, France and Germany? In addition, do you consider, Mr Minister, the structural changes that are taking place in the European Commission by transferring a significant part of the responsibilities and staff force from the Directorate-General for Agriculture, DG AGRI to the Directorate-General of the Regions, DG REGIO? Are you following these developments? Do you have any configured opinions? Do you think there should be a correlation between these in relation to the modification, reorganisation of your Ministry and your own structures? Ladies and gentlemen, a solid agri-food chain is required in the current uncoordinated and fragmented sector. A new institutional framework, hybrid and collaborative, based on the synergy between the private and public sectors, is also required. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] Madam President, I would ask your tolerance for one and a half minutes. Finally, the fragmented and fragmented approach to the problems of rural areas must give its place to a specific and integrated national agricultural policy which will 'walk' the CFP and in fact support the rural world. In addition, we must bear in mind that with Brexit and the significant reduction in the European budget, in particular the budget for the CAP is to be disproportionately reduced. This is inevitable, and we will have it in the second half of our financial framework. We must take this into account and prepare ourselves. In addition, there is another issue that has to do with the mid-term review of the CAP. Because we have started implementing the CAP with a very long delay, what conclusions have we reached so far? Where are we? What proposals do we have to make about the mid-term review that will take place in an extremely difficult environment, an environment characterised by the reduction in the budget, but also the pressure to find own resources to compress the CAP? Ladies and gentlemen, it is well known to everyone that Greek agriculture is characterised by a production disorganization. Unlike us, the other countries have treated aid as a basic instrument for the implementation of agricultural policy to modernise their agricultural sector and not by destroying them, such as us, on the basis of criteria and reasonable customer relations, which have led to the removal from production and the demolition of a large group of the rural world. The 'all the pounds', all the money', we will pay for it very much longer. Let us at least draw the appropriate conclusions and go wiser. Modern quality agricultural products can only be branded, identified, certified by reliable certification and control mechanisms that ensure consumer confidence. A prerequisite for the long-term economic viability of the producer, both the farmer and the farmer, is its involvement in the course of a product from primary production to the consumer to ensure that it becomes a greater share of the value added of its product. In order to achieve this, however, the producer is required to participate in strong collective schemes, such as producer groups or agricultural cooperatives. Only healthy and powerful such shapes can secure an economy of scale in input costs, ensure market negotiating power, implement innovation, carry out applied research, ensure consistency in the availability, stability in quality, form and quantities that are absolute outward and competitiveness conditions. Live countryside means living and rich country. And in our country land workers, farmers, are in an extremely difficult position. Their position is difficult, because for years the state has done nothing to help them increase their incomes. Because income is not subsidies, income is the result of their hardship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u201	The floor is from the Independent Greeks, MP 2 Thessaloniki, Mr. Lazarides.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u202	Madam President, thank you. Before I begin to comment on the question of the New Democracy question, I would like to make a comment in general, because I see that with the question tabled by the opposition on agriculture, what they say is that the guilty returns to the crime scene and goes around - around. Because, you know, agriculture is the most important sector, which has really been affected and devastated because of their poor policies. To make it clearer, as I have said many times from here, from the Step of plenary and from the relevant Committees on Production and Trade, agriculture in 1980, when we entered the EEC at that time, was at 22% -23%. There it was left by Constantine Karamanlis. Over the years, after about forty years that went through, they managed with their poor policies and downloaded it to 3%. This 3%, you know, is with today's figures, with a GDP that has been out of normality since 2010. I mean, he fell by about 30%. If we go to a GDP in normality, it's even below. In other words, it is a tragic situation. Those who have committed to agriculture now come and shake the finger. Of course, they did not only condemn against agriculture, they were generally criminalized against the country, against the economy, the citizens, society, etc. That's what we pay, and that's what this government is trying to fix. It is not the government's responsibility for this whole situation, which we are facing. It is, of course, the well-known tactic of counter-population: once some positive measures are taken or some positive bills are passed by the government, or we have results such as the ones in the evaluation now, which we have the conclusion of the agreement and the debt debate is now coming to the table, it is trying to disorientate. We also had the vote on the bill on forest maps - not to forget this - where society, the rural world and also the citizens - has seen this very positively. We are dealing with this on our country tours with the world we are talking about. People now feel free and feel that their property has been settled. Because, you know, it was the policy of these two parties to hold citizens hostage. They weren't taking care of these loose ends. I will not go back to the details that we have said about what has happened with the old legal framework, which concerned them. But now they are asking a question to create and create impressions in order to disorientate them from these successes. He needs a job. Indeed, the government needs to make a great deal of effort, but there are some positive measures, such as what we have said. Here I would like to remind the opposition of something. This coup d'état had then passed a law on civil servants, where it said they would be evaluated and about 17% of those found to be inadequate will be expelled. I say, if that were the case for the political system, how would the government that took the debt to 120% be assessed? Would they be expelled or praised? Let's think about that. Then to those who took the debt from 120% to 180%, would they be given greater praise? Did they make it or failed? Clearly, they failed. The Greek people pay for the failure. This is what the government is trying to raise agriculture, which is the tip of the spear along with tourism, but also in general all production. As far as the question is concerned, the opposition is accused of a low rate of absorption at risk of losing funds, because the framework has been tightened up, and so on. The Agricultural Development Programme 2014-2020 was approved in December 2015. That is, sixteen months from now, after intensive and painful consultations with the European Commission have taken place. Yes, it is considered to be Program for the period 2014-2020, but it was adopted in December 2015. It's also a "success" of the governments by 2014, you know. Then - I try to be as soon as possible, because I see time is pushing - I would like to point out that the Agricultural Development Programme 2007-2013 was approved by the European Union on 29 November 2007, that is, at the same time as the 2014-2020 programme - what we are talking about - which was behind one year without the current government being responsible. However, I would like to see a wheelchair... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I call for your tolerance, Madam President, for about two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u203	Mr. Lazarides, it's been too late now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u204	No, I'm ending now, Madam President. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u205	The Delegations have also been here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u206	All right, I'll speed it up even faster. In conclusion, with regard to the payments made to date, it is noted that absorption for 2015 was the best of the entire programming period 2007-2013, reaching public expenditure of EUR 780 million. 2010 was 655 million. Make the comparison and you'll see the truth of what I'm telling you. 2010 was the best year with payments made in the previous Rural Development Programme and in a Community participation of 720 million. 2014 was the best year with 525 million. The current government was more effective, around 200 million, while for 2016, the first year of the implementation of the 2014-2020 Rural Development Programme also reached a similarly high level of EUR 657 million public expenditure and a Community contribution of 566 million. I read this table and close, Madam President: for 2015 a programme of 7.13 was 780 million. For 2016 it was 657 million. For 2017 it is 55 million to date. Therefore, because the figures cannot be disproved by anyone, it is disappointing to see the figures for Civicism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u207	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how the House of Greeks organises and operates, thirty one student and two teachers and two teachers from the 4th High School of Neapolis Thessaloniki (second section). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] In addition, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, twenty Finnish students from the University of Helsinki. The House welcomes them. The Parliamentary Representative of the Union for Central and Eastern Europe, Mr Theodora, has the floor. I hope you'll pay us back with your time, Mrs. Major.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u208	Madam President, a little solidarity between us. Don't men talk more than women. To be equivalent. Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, we are debating today the evaluation of European funds in relation to rural development. I would like to refer to something else: development, evaluation, all of this is as synthetic. But did it take a year, Ministers, to get to these measures? For a year we've been negotiating to get more heavy measures? Now, you say we'll have the countermeasures. But we do not know what the countermeasures will be. I believe the countermeasures are a pill, an aspirin in severe cancer patients, who are trying to ease their pain a little. You won't cure them, though. We need a lot of medication. As we know, you may vote and implement the measures. And of course you'll vote for them. You're a little struggling with each other, internally. You will vote for them because you know that in 2019-2020 that will be implemented you will not be government. It will simply be the New Democracy that will implement the measures and say as an excuse: 'We have already found them adopted. We must implement them.' This also happened in the 2016 budget, when the Chief of Independent Greeks was up, Mr. Kammenos - I was a new Member of Parliament at the time - perimeters gave the paper and said: "These are voted on from 2014 and we are obliged to implement it by 2016." So you're playing a beautiful ping-pong among you guys. Congratulations. But the people cannot play ping pong because they are suffering. Confiscations have already begun from both the taxes and the insurance funds and from the banks and even the first home, while all of you have said "no house in the hands of a banker". However, seizures will be made in the New Democracy Party that owes 240 million or PASOK that owes 240 million more or the Greek people will pay them. That is what I would like to ask you, because that is what the Greek people will pay for. You won't pay anything. The parties took them. You haven't secured martial mortgages to take them away from you. They'll take his house away from him. You Members should have signed your properties and taken yours. Now let's go to the subject of concern and apologise for my irritation. We are already in the eighth year of heavy austerity and memorial policy and the economy has completely sinked into the depths of the ocean. We must remember that the Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras, has been saying for many years that there is a need for productive reconstruction in Greece as a one-way path for Greece's problems. More specifically, the Prime Minister had spoken about the full use of resources for Greek agriculture. In particular, in September 2015, a few days before the elections, the Prime Minister promised to say: Supporting the employment of farmers and young farmers, upgrading the services of the agricultural sector, reconstruction of the agricultural movement and development of resources for Greek agriculture. That's what he said in particular. Indeed, many times since Mr Tsipras has referred to the use of the Agricultural Development Programme 2014-2020, which was to communitise funds of EUR 6 billion, again as the Prime Minister. We are now in 2017 and we are increasingly aware that the country is going through one year and the next is even more difficult. This is how it can be seen that this year will be at a maximum recession, and even from those elements that we have in the first quarter of 2017. At the same time we are now waiting for the new measures that have already been adopted, which we do not know. Of course these measures, from what we have heard from the stations, will not only affect pensioners and employees, will also affect farmers. I'm sure when we read it, we'll see about that. Despite all the pitiful elements, it remains incomprehensible because the government does not show more than 100% of its powers for the full and full evaluation of the agricultural resources that the rural economy so much needs, but also the Greek economy in general. Of course, the Minister has announced that in 2017 most of the measures under the Rural Development Programme will be launched. However, given that the support for agricultural production had to be a key priority for the government, I believe that there is already a serious delay, especially if you think that by October 2016 Greece had the negative record to have the lowest absorption rates, about 5%. It is therefore the government's duty to run at an even faster rate to fill the gap it has created. Therefore, the timetable for 2017 that the Minister has invoked will have to be respected more than reverentially, because the rural world expects the absorption of this money with an anguish. The regions of the country which will play a dynamic role in the absorption of European funds are also waiting. In this context, I would like to make a special reference to actions for young farmers. In recent years many Greeks, mostly young people, have sought to change their way of life completely, to leave the urban centers provided that they can deal with rural life. People have made a start that is doubtful of its outcome and definitely needs our support. It is very disappointing that the evaluation of applications for young farmers has not yet begun. There is no room for delays and blockages. These people depend exclusively on the Programme. In fact, I would mention to you, Minister, that the Region of Western Greece has asked for an increase in the budget for this action, because only a thousand two hundred young farmers are present, and there is much more interest in getting into the Programme. Accordingly, there is also a very large frugality of the government, which no one has mentioned, which is very difficult for buffalo breeders, who are hard to survive, as the 2014-2020 Agricultural Development Programme is one of the main sources of income for farmers to maintain the tribe of the Greek buffalo. Accordingly, there is a great problem in the Operational Programme for Fisheries and Maritime, which the government seems to have really forgotten again, i.e., i.e. we need to strengthen the traditionally known activities in Greece, agriculture and fisheries. Of course, we condemn the delay of the SYRIZA - ANEL co-government, but that does not mean that we must also forget the serious mistakes made by the New Democracy, which is currently on the side of the questioner. They must once ask you and answer. Let us not forget, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, that the previous Programme 2007-2013, which was mainly responsible for the New Democracy, did not produce the expected results in the agricultural world, and even at the end it was less absorbing than it had to be. The report of the evaluation of the 2007-2013 Programme has shown that there was ultimately no development of the primary sector and countryside to the expected extent. Furthermore, other objectives, such as the setting-up of young people, the processing and the environment, have not been achieved. It has also been shown that there have been several problems in the implementation of the Programme, selection criteria and monitoring. All of this actually left a feeling that the Programme was not fully exploited, but on the contrary, another valuable aid for Greek agricultural production has been lost. So, as a conclusion, what should we do where we are here? We must seriously see, at last, the issue of agricultural production, that the governments concerned stop seeing the money of European Union programmes as small aid to frustrated farmers and, above all, with a view to strengthening their philosophical image. We must finally stop exploiting the agricultural world and get our homeland a serious agricultural, livestock and fisheries policy programme, which will help us to strengthen our national economy as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u209	Thank you, too. The circle of parliamentary representatives has also ended. Mr. Chironis has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u210	Thank you, Madam President. I would also like to thank the questioners for the opportunity to discuss this crucial issue. I must say that I have listened very carefully to questions and I literally liked your rigour. You know I like to be strict with my partners, because the rigour ejects every man to be better at work. But if, at the moment, we are talking about your rigour, I would like this rigour to have it with yourself. The rigour is wonderful for the opposition, and I think it suits you very much this role. So sit down in this position, sit down for too many years, as I will prove to you, to wear away your rigour always toward others. I will start with the money, which has been given from 2007 until today. Remind the absolute figures, which are the only ones who cannot suffer, but no verbal improvement. In 2007, therefore, the total public expenditure, together with social participation, to farmers, was about 282 million, in 2008 it was 288 million and in 2009 it was 225 million. You understand that those years are the tails of the previous program, as always. In 2010, when the tail ends and we are pressed, the figure is 655 million. They were together the old and the new program in the same year, in 2010, because they would have been running queues since 2006. That's the way it always happens, with the known delays. In 2011, the figure falls to 433 million, in 2012 to 403 million, in 2013 it now rises to 557 million - you start a little bit - and in 2014 to 593 million. And the record is now, because we're on it. We close the program and everything that has been mentioned and get to the 718 record. And Mr Theocharopoulos says'reasonable is, everyone is pressed at n+2'. And the n+2, indeed, is 2015. But what you're not saying is in 2016, which is no longer the tail and n+2. It's 650, where in the same years you - your n+2, your n+3 - you were at 225. And then I'll say that we're not happy with ourselves while you're always happy with yourself. Let me mention another annex and remind you that in 2005 Greece had a gross added value of the agricultural sector of EUR 8 536 000. I do not have the previous ones, because, if I remember well, before, over the previous years, it was over 10,000,000,000 euros and we are talking about years of crisis. So you managed in 2013 and you dropped this amount into the historical nadir. The history of nadir is only 5,794,000,000 euros. That was the gross added value of the agricultural sector over your days. And tell me about a crisis? In 2008 - before a crisis - it had fallen from about 10 in early 2000 to 6,793. And this 2008 that was not yet a crisis. If you look at the numbers, it was lost in absolute pre-crisis numbers on your government around 22% of agricultural GDP. I am not talking about percentages, because quite rightly some Members have said not to talk about percentages. And I'm going to your questions. You have expressed many questions, particularly about organic farming, which is indeed my responsibility. The first question is why we gave extensions. You know very well that this extension was a desperate call from our farmers, because farmers and the main units of farmers, who have over three and a half livestock units per hectare, would have come to get less than EUR 80 per animal unit. Climb to Serres, climb to Thessaly and look at the great productions and you will see that it was in despair.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u211	We're from Serres!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u212	Actually, they didn't know if they should or shouldn't have gotten into the program, because they'd get whispered. And if you see the numbers on who's been in those last few days, you'll see that in the last few days the numbers are mostly for the farmers, the real breeders that will enter. Talk to them! You've never talked to them. And here I will return to the other figures, because from the 23rd of the month after the end of the programme, measure 1.1 was at minus 168 - it was already derailed - measure 1.2 was at minus 21 million, measure 2.1 was less than 258 - what you say that because of the extension it was done was already derailed - and, of course, measure 2.2 was equally derailed, it was less 73. So anyway, we had two choices, or we would only share in the NATURA areas - what we did in plant life, because in plant life the figures were made - or we should redesign the measure. So here we have chosen to redesign the measure, and that was also the demand from the farmers. There was an extensive dialogue because, as the Minister quite rightly said, we had sixty-five thousand applications. We knew that it was possible to renew the animal husbandry measure, that is, what we are doing now. However, one thing was certain: if we had not reopened it and shared the money with NATURA, the money that these farmers would have received, if we hadn't made the correction and extension, would have been a whisper. People would get pussy. Put the numbers down if you know any elementary math. And I'm going back to a second question. You say we haven't given in 2015, we owed money since 2015. Indeed, it is true that it has not yet been cleared all over 2015. Let me remind you, of course, that at the end of 2016, six months ago, we were still striving to clear up your misery in 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, in 2014. We've made a record in a year, we've cleared up. And why were the delays? Again because we are talking about rural women and farmers, because we have had the multi-storey fields, which we have eaten dozens, hundreds of millions of fines. The movable fields were the pheasantness, which, of course, hit the grower. And he hit the bio-grower, because he can't get the field around here, because he's got certifications and the field's locked up the thirteen digits. But the multi-storey fields were your invention. It was your client state that created this immune system. And I am now returning to the third question, NATURA. I read that NATURA - and indeed, I think, in a statement by your own Member - brought it by Chironis, the green economist, and flew out whole regions. This is a genuine question, Mr President. Are you scientifically ignorant? Dangerous ignorance? Are you suffering from a political Alzheimer's? Are you addicted to micropolitics? NATURA is in 2014 from your own recommendation. It never changed. He's never been questioned. And to be honest and not to make cheap opposition at the time it was designed it was a possibility and an appropriate measure. Because when we had fourteen and fifteen thousand farmers at the time, the possibility really had to lead NATURA, because they are sensitive areas, and it is good to have good practices. Agro-environmental measure. I know you couldn't predict that in 2014 we would have sixty-five thousand applications and NATURA in livestock will go beyond everything, and in agriculture they will eat all the programme, which, however, there we were forced to give it under law. And you know it very well. NATURA, your choice, which was not disputed by anyone, and no one in any consultation raised any objections. And you go out and say it's a measure of Chironi? Thank you very much for the compliment. You took it off. It's not a fourth. Delays in ELGA compensation. Three to twelve months is ELGA today. Look at the numbers, 'cause that sounded like it. And I ask: Do you remember during your days telling us what the allowances of the ELGA were and how many years did people wait? Do you remember the ELGA budget with the gap of the billions we housed? What can I say? But I'll say a few things you haven't said. Congregation. Do you know the word cultivating? Do you know the word polyculture? Do you know the fact that they were cut out of your bio-growers' programmes because they were putting clover under the olive to give nitrogen, and you excluded that? Do you know the fact that it is in the nature of the organic farming that we have too many plants in the boilers, why did organic farming work and you cut them? And we fixed that at the very last minute. You also talked about a strategic plan. Yeah, we have a strategic plan. I have repeatedly spoken - and I do not have time today - for green logistics. The law we're putting in CENE now and coming to Parliament, see if you can vote for him? And that is where we finally put the two months that the European fresh directive says. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] Give me the two minutes, Madam President. I'm done. And you know very well that in your own legislation, the European directive you incorporated and said: 'Two months, unless both sides agree otherwise'. So, in short, will the big supermarket agree with the small producer who has fresh and will not be blackmailed to get an eight-month or ten-month check? This is counter-reformation, if you want to know. To redeem the market, get people the money on time. You don't like the labelling of milk's origin, do you? We'll see. You'll vote for it in a few days' time that comes to the House. But I know why you never had a strategic plan. Because your strategic plan was that the market will regulate it all. That's your philosophy. Why don't you admit it? You don't want strategic plans, you don't want design from above. You want all the wild market that fills up Daddys where it wants to be, which then roots out vineyards and what we want, because that's the easy money and the temporary solution. And I'm going back to something important. It could be faster for the Greek public administration not to be below the average, as you say. Yeah. That, however, means having a better public eye. Here we have some officials who are rated, but they are very few. Because the public first filled it up, then corrupted it, and then you discredited it, and in the end, you dissolved it! And with this public, with these few people, you want the programmes to run, as they run in Italy or Denmark or Germany. Look at the percentage of civil servants on the population in a country with a very difficult geographical relief and then move the finger on that public eye! Because you're always reconstructing the same idea. Your idea is that the public is the enemy of the producer and private sector. This is your idea, the wild idea that wants everything to go to the private sector. So count the civil servants carrying out this program. They're not mine, we didn't appoint them, you appointing them, but they're heroes right now. I'll close with three clues, which are a little peculiar. Firstly, for the 0.5% of Mr Mitsotakis, you know and we know very well that right now, in the middle of the 2017 budget, we cannot provide money from the 2016 budget, from the surplus. This does not stand accountable for anyone who understands what a state budget means. So if we are to give money from over-excession, we can only give it to December, where we have a serious assessment of whether there is over-excession and not a month of March that you suddenly remembered. But you, when we did this with the thirteenth pension, voted against it. Second point: Flexible work. It has been said: Flexible work. Flexible work was therefore up from 14% to 60% on your day. Nowadays, it's been braked and it's gone around 56%. We do not welcome this, but I remind you that flexible work is your strategic choice, it is in your idea that this improves growth, suits entrepreneurs and therefore will ultimately reduce unemployment. Your invention is flexible work. If you want, I would be delighted to see everyone here in Parliament condemn flexible work. I wish! This is where I want you. Tell us, do you want it or do you want it? Is it, or is it not, BSE and internationally? In fact, BSE recently protested - these people have a respectable view - that flexible work in Greece is less than it is in other countries and considers it to be a factor of underdevelopment. Here to tell us: Do you want it or do you not want it? Do you pursue it or do you not pursue it? I'm ending up with the 80 million of the Borgians list. Yeah, we'd like to have a lot more than the 80 million we've managed to pull out of the Borgians list. But you guys put her in the drawer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u213	So we're going through to the questions now. Mrs. Arabatzis has three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u214	Five minutes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u215	You had spoken at 12.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u216	All right, Madam President, I had spoken 11 minutes actually.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u217	The previous President has given it to me, and you have three minutes at your disposal. I can see them. I wasn't here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u218	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u219	Also, Mr. Dimas only has the floor for the others.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u220	And I, for a minute, Madam President!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u221	So let's get started.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u222	Madam President, everyone has gone beyond the tolerance of the Bureau, and good, because this is an extremely important matter, so I would ask you, too, for your tolerance, which, of course, you always show traditionally. I'm starting my dentistry, Ministers. I don't know what inaccurateness to respond first. I have - to tell you the truth - the great and frustrated expectation, as has unfortunately been said, that you will come here, Minister and Mr. Deputy Minister, Mr. Cironi, at least for organic farming and livestock, instead of lying to us, moving the finger, that you enjoyed our rigour. Yes, indeed, we are strict when people, all the farmers, have been excluded from the programme and we will be strict as opposed to you who, when we presented the issue, laughed at the ministerial chairs. Were you admiring that you gave 201 million out of 443 or that you were mocking and mocking the world with three extensions? Do you know the numbers, Minister? Why, when the budget was exceeded at the first extension from 443 million to 900, did you invite them again and again to submit and enter the cost process and think that they will grow and go to the process to change crops and have now been filled with zeros and to drop prices and not have any other crops that have alternatively left? Mr Apostle said that last we adopted the programme during the previous programming period. Minister, on 21-11-2007, the programme was launched for 2007-2013- seven months from its submission, New Democracy approved the previous PAA. Seventeen months after taking up your duties, you approved it. We are talking about 2007 to 2017.Two years after the program was approved for today, we had 21.5%. Two years after the programme was adopted on your day, you had 9.33%-12%. The second inaccuracy is this: you said you lost two years because of us. You are obviously missed by the regulatory directives, namely that 'n+2', that is to say, the two years of prolongation of the programme, are given precisely to all Member States to end the obligations of the previous period legally. You, with the "Barufast" logic, did not pay two years. In the first three quarters of 2015 you did not pay. When did you pay EUR 543 million? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need some more time, Madam President. You paid bread at the end of 2016, at the last minute, Ministers, EUR 543 million, to leave the reproach of 9.33% and go a bit on the European average, again under the base. What did you do, and you claim here by consuming that you had the best absorption for 2015? You have created a magical picture, Mr Ministers, because the absorption payments for which you are here dealing with and triumphing are nothing more than easy absorbings of a last minute, payments of a subsidised nature, such as the compensatory compensation you have invented to show absorptions. There is something else I have not heard you say and it is about early retirement, Mr Ministers. You went and 'parced' on the second pillar a sum of national resources - we are talking about 105 million euros - to show absorptions, making a distortion of the development character of the programme which is not, Mr Ministers, about subsidised policies to show you absorptions, but about developing and strengthening the competitiveness of the agri-food sector. You did the same in 2016. Do the Ministers really know that in 2016 from the EUR 657 million that celebrates that they gave 79% of the record in the European Union - is it about compensation? We're talking about easy money. With regard to compensation - and here it turns out how sharp you are - you have shared from the total EUR 900 million of compensation that they need in the world by the end of the programme for the next seven years and you have already 'eat' in 1/3. In other words, you have shared them forward, depriving the economy of valuable funds tomorrow. It is a terrible thing to do, because it is not just the rational management of Community funds, but the small-scale exploitation of money, of course, in order to save your collapsed electoral rates, because, along with the measures in the fourth memorandum you want to 'load' to the next government, you also want to leave funds. You're such persecutors! Mr President, the allowances, such as the compensation you have paid for in order to show absorption, are good, but the development you are allegedly being cut and with which, of course, you have the ultimate divorce, comes from investment, from strengthening the rural entrepreneurship and the competitiveness of farmers, which is the objective of the programme. So I ask you this: In addition to these figures for notices, which you said here, concern EUR 1.5 billion from here, EUR 1.5 billion from there, for which we have become misunderstood, what has entered the real economy? From the improvement plans? They weren't proclaimed. Of the young farmers? Good June to finish the evaluations! From the processing? From the producer groups? From innovation partnerships? From the money for the development targeting of the programme? From warm growth money, what's gotten into the real economy? He entered "zero into the clay".
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u223	Please complete, Mrs. Arabaji. You've exceeded your extra time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u224	I know, Madam President. There are delays in delays and in the key issue of increased production costs and reductions in water costs. We're still waiting for the CSA on the water tariffs policy. Mr Ministers, you need to realise that due to the tightening of the new programme every day in absorption costs expensive, because in 2018 I assume you know there will be an evaluation of performance. And if then, Minister, you are so intent on the objectives, the country will not only lose the money from the absorptions of the programme that are not running, but will be charged with a financial burden of up to EUR 180 million for the first three years, as a penalty. Of course, these are fine letters for you, because your policy is nothing but a brake on growth, an obstacle to entrepreneurship, excellence on missed opportunities. Lost opportunity was for our country, I am passing away, the absence of our country to be included - where? - the compensation of the European Solidarity Fund for the damage suffered by their farmers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u225	You're short, Mrs. Arabaji.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u226	Do not complain, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u227	Mrs Arabatzis, because there is a meeting of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, please close. We are patient, but there are limits.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u228	I'll be done in a minute. So, Mr Minister, because we heard a lot about the ELGA and how well you did it - for the damage suffered by farmers from natural disasters, where they shared EUR 71 million from this Fund in countries of the European Union and Greece did not submit a file or arguments, it was still holding an umbrella! That's what I'm gonna close. Of course, a lost opportunity was the outrageous absence of Greece for a third consecutive year from the fruit and vegetable programme in the schools of the country. The so-called socially sensitive Left and the Prime Minister, who makes school meals as countermeasures to the fourth memorandum, did not absorb 1 euro in the last three years of the 3,143,000 euros allocated to our country for fruit from social distribution. And because we are not all the same, Minister, I would simply remind you that for this programme the absorption of money was over 90% and 100%.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u229	Mrs. Arabaji, please finish now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u230	I know I'm intruding.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u231	This thing can't be done. You're talking ten minutes while you had three.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u232	I'm hanging up. So I ask you directly: what is it going to be equilibrium after 2019, with how much money per year? And with regard to the shame about fruit and vegetables, what will you do at least so that the money from 2017 and 2018 is not lost?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u233	Let's not start the revelations about what happened before!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u234	Make the revelations. Tell us what you absorbed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u235	Come on, gentlemen! You know what the question procedure is. That's why there are so many people to share the matter. If you're all gonna talk ten minutes, don't make this process, we're gonna have a conference.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u236	I deserved five minutes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u237	You can't say anything, you've spoken ten minutes. I cannot be exposed to the previous Presidents. Leave it now. Come on, Mr Dimas, you have the floor. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u238	Thank you, Madam President. I'll talk for four minutes. Besides, I'm the only one who kept, by all the speakers, my time before. You can see this from the Minutes as well. Firstly, we owe a reply to the Deputy Minister for the primary surplus. Minister, I should like to tell you that I would have been much more positive in achieving such a high primary surplus if you had paid the public's dues and had not increased, if you had not imposed tax measures and increases in insurance contributions of 9 billion, if you had not "showed" the cash available from the EKO, including the ELGA, by means of an act of legislation and if also the rate of pensions was much faster than the one it is today. So do this and then come back and talk about a primary surplus again. From the Minister for Rural Development, I have not heard a single trace of self-criticism. Everything's perfect! The rural world celebrates today after your speech! Let's go see one example: Operational Fisheries and Maritime Programme, 388 million euros budget for the country. Listen, Minister. I therefore read to you the summary of the Annual Report of the Operational Fisheries and Maritime Programme, that is, what has been done for your own days, under the Ministry of the Apostle: ‘In 2015, and in particular following the adoption of the 2014-2020 Operational Fisheries and Maritime Programme, the Special Management Agency carried out the following actions: Preparatory cooperation with relevant services, such as National Coordination Authority Services, Special Management Agency for the Rural Development Programme, Directorate-General for Sustainable Fisheries, General Secretariat for Research and Technology and Final Structure of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, in order to launch and define the management and control system, indicators for implementation, joint local development at the initiative of the local communities, specialisation of measures and any other necessary procedure.’; Well, let's see what all this has done...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u239	Could you say a date?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u240	I didn't interrupt you!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u241	Please, can you say document date? When did this happen in 2015?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u242	You will answer, Minister. I'll submit it to the Minutes. Don't panic!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u243	Two years later, you're trying to...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u244	Minister, would you like to hear me? Madam President, I think I will have more minutes. Isn't that right? Let's see what you've done with all this collaboration. I read: ‘Publication of a three-way prospectus with key information on the approved Operational Programme for Fisheries and Sea 2014-2020’. So you succeeded in printing a newsletter. That's all! May I say "congratulations"? I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Dimas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But there's always there.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u245	It's yours! It's your loose ends!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u246	Don't rush! There's always...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u247	Mr. Apostle, that's the way these conversations are. Everyone says what they think.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u248	There is a continuity, Minister, and it is much more impressive, a sample of the foolish bureaucracy of the Greek state and the attitude of SYRIZA. You are sending the European Commission a report of seventy-two pages - seventy-two pages, please! - in which you say that in the Operational Fisheries and Maritime Programme in 2015 nothing happened at all. So - I repeat - on seventy-two pages to the European Commission you say that you are sending a zero report and did not make use of it, Minister, even half of the euro! It is truly impressive how in seventy-two pages you describe a zero report. I personally think that five were the pages, that would still be the number! To see, however, what this zero report says: "For 2015 we are telling the European Commission that, firstly, there were no financial commitments and expenditure for any of the measures envisaged in the Operational Programme, secondly, that no activity was carried out with respect to the evaluation plan, thirdly, that no action has been assessed and included in the programme and, consequently, no beneficiary has been selected. In that context, the members of the Monitoring Committee approved on 24 June 2016 the sending of a zero report for 2015.’ It concludes with the following: ‘A more detailed description of the preparatory actions for the activation of the Operational Programme is set out in chapter 3.1 of the Report’. I would like to ask myself: a more detailed description of the zero report, Minister? However, the congratulations here are sincerely on my behalf! You have the courage to send seventy-two pages for a zero report and to say for a more detailed description of the zero. Well, that's for a book, Gina. I put this in the Minutes too. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Dimas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Let's go to the questions now, and I'm closing with the questions, Madam President. What is the course of the Operational Fisheries and Maritime Programme to date, Minister? Have all the decisions required for its implementation been adopted? How many plans have they joined? How much is the absorption of the programme and what is the timetable for the next period? What was the national absorption target for 2016? What was the final absorption rate? Publicity measures shall be provided for in the implementation of an operational programme in order to inform potential beneficiaries. What action has the Ministry taken to inform the potential beneficiaries, given that until 13-1-2017 on the specific website of the operational programme is there only one reference to an event ‘Previous Information on the Operational Fisheries and Sea Programme’ held on Kalamitsa Coast in Kavala on 6-10-2016? How many participated, what qualities and who were the rapporteurs in this event? Do you consider the publicity which the programme has received so far to be satisfactory? And I come to one final question: Is it true that our country has not been able to make use of the EUR 25.6 million at its disposal as pre-financing for the implementation of the programme, so that all this money can be repaid? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u249	Thank you, Mr Dimas. Now, Mr. Apostle, Mr. Red...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u250	First, Mr. Red, and then you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u251	I have a dentext, and then Mr. Coke, and if he wants him to answer Mr. Apostle.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u252	I'll go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u253	I would also like to speak, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u254	Madam President, he has made use of his denology in the first place! Let Mr. Stylus speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u255	What does that have to do with anything?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u256	How does she not, Madam President? You put us for three minutes...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u257	There's no time for Mr. Stylus, what are we gonna do here? We're not looking here to balance. We're not directing right now. Let's keep an eye on your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u258	Madam President, before I take my floor, I should like to help a little on a point of order and on the denology of the Minister. Indeed, the Minister at the beginning of his speech said that he was giving Mr Tsironi and Mr Kokalis the right of dentistry. I'm telling you why you weren't present.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u259	I see it written.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u260	I would therefore like to say that if the Minister is given the right again, of course colleagues are also entitled to take the floor again. I think that is reasonable, and for the equality of weapons you should accept that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u261	This, Mr. Dimas, who asks questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u262	But if he insists on his initial position, of course, the procedure will be followed as originally agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u263	Look, this is where we're not going to create any impressions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u264	Good, Mr. Ashes can answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u265	Minister, wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u266	Mr Colleagues, and the Minister has the right during a debate to intervene whenever he wishes to do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u267	If he wants to take the floor, we too will have to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u268	There is a speaker here who asks questions. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Well, listen, please, so we can get in touch. Sit down, Mr. Red. You're out of time, okay? Your last speaker appears and asks the Minister questions. If he doesn't answer, he's making the impression he doesn't have what to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u269	But Mr. Red is answering. The Ministry is single.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u270	Because Mr. Red has scheduled since morning what he's going to say, it's not what he's going to say, it's just someone else he's going to want to talk to. So what do you want now? Shall we all take the show again? You can't do that. Come here and talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u271	Yes, but that is not the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u272	The interpretation of common sense, because the Rules are common sense and common coexistence. We're not doing anything further. You've got six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u273	All right, six minutes. But, Madam President, the Rules of Procedure are not only common sense and shared partnership, as you said, although I do not understand them, but they are a text which should be observed. The Minister said in his initial position that he granted the right of dentistry to the Deputy Minister and the right to tritology to Mr. Kokalis. If it is to give the floor again to the Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u274	Mr. Kefaliannis, I will not count your time, I will zero it to you. The Rules of Procedure say that at any time the Minister is taking him to the questions. Now, if he made a statement that he's sharing him right and left we don't care.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u275	How don't you care? After he accepted it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u276	We do not care, because whenever he wants to speak, much more when he has been asked specific questions by the questioner.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u277	That is not the case, Madam President. But do you not care, Madam President, that the Minister is self-determined?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u278	Now we are not going to interpret the Rules of Procedure. I give you six minutes to exploit them productively.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u279	Anyway, I think Mr. Coke isn't a little kid to be able to cover his ministry. The Ministry is single and could answer questions. I think he is well-known, well-parliamented and he does not need the help of Mr Apostle to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u280	So I keep going. Rule 97, because we will now not consult and do not want to raise a matter on Friday, paragraph 4: ‘The Ministers and Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, beyond the time of the previous paragraphs, which states how much time they have...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u281	What is the time of the previous paragraph, Madam President? How many minutes does it say?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u282	Which says they have seven minutes when they've been registered as speakers. Fifteen minutes when they speak as rapporteurs. How many minutes did the Minister talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u283	He spoke twenty-two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u284	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u285	Says all the...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u286	Read the Rules of Procedure better.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u287	He says all the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u288	Okay, because we know the Rules of Procedure very well, Madam President...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u289	Whenever they ask the floor, five minutes of the hour the first time and for three minutes each next. Whenever they ask. However, I did not say "speak, Mr Apostleu". I made a general comment. But if you want to talk beyond shared coexistence and common sense, I also bring you the Rules of Procedure. Okay?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u290	I say, Madam President, about the equality of arms, if the Minister is to take the floor, and the opposition must also speak, in order to answer and this debate will never stop.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u291	Shall we put on the times you guys abused?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u292	Let's put it all down, Minister. Of course, you spoke more. Fifteen minutes you've spoken almost. Anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u293	Come on, it's a little funny. Please. You have time next week to fight. Come on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u294	I guess this time won't count. I'm on my way. I have heard the parliamentary spokesman for the Coupling and my dear colleague ask for a consensus on the big issues relating to rural areas. We say yes, of course, at some point in this House on matters that concern the whole of the rural world. No, of course, under the conditions which you had as an opposition, which the government did, and of course, as soon as you became a government, you applaud. Because the funds that the Ministry is currently simply sharing - or at least promises to share - are, in fact, the achievement of the previous government, and we must not forget that. Secondly, I have heard the Minister say again about the issue of absorption. I think it cannot question this because, on the basis of the official figures - at least from the European Union - until the end of 2016 - we are certainly waiting for the latest information - of the twenty-three measures available to our country, the twelve had not yet been opened. That's the majority. Eight of the same twenty-three were under 10% and only three, Minister, and I think you can't question it, it was over 20%. They are official figures of the European Union. In fact, even if we accept the 12% furniture you say, that is also below the European average. The European average is 14.2%. Speaking of which, we need to talk specifically about numbers. I also listened very carefully to the Minister, Mr. Tsironi, saying, "You know, the extensions to organic products were given, because we constantly had requests from farmers." That's half the truth. I say that it is amazing because you know very well that the budget had already been covered by the first invitation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u295	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u296	Didn't you say you constantly had requests from the livestock world?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u297	Oh, no. You've got the wrong idea.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u298	Anyway, all right. I might have figured it out wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u299	An appeal, you said. Desperate call from farmers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u300	I might have figured it out wrong. The result is one, Minister. It hurts hand, it cuts hand. That's what you're doing as a ministry. In the end, farmers and farmers will not receive the money or receive it late on the basis of your own - not personally, I mean as a ministry - unstable, incompetence or, if you like, ideology. I will close and stay within time with two main remarks, because the Minister has been tempted to make observations of more general political interest. He talked about the primary surplus. I would remind him that the results of the previous year, of the previous year, are finalised in March, April of the following year. If you have not done so, Minister, if you wish to do this political nonsense, do a unilateral action in December, take it back, ask for letters to the European Union, 'I'm sorry, we're not going to do it again', you could not only give a primary surplus - I mean it now - twice and three times what you have given pensioners and as Mr Mitsotakis has said, but in fact from this part of overtaxation by individuals and businesses, with which you have drained the Greek economy, could turn back, so that there would be additional aid to the production process. You didn't do it? You did it because you did the December monomer energy, which you were after tears in the eyes trying to get back. But where you're really going to let me tell you that you put a political self-government, it's working. Because you talked about flexible forms of work, that's our idea. You say it is our idea, but it is, unfortunately, your policy and practice. Why is that? Because during your days, Minister, the first time on the basis of the elements of "ERGANIS" six out of ten workers are currently in flexible forms of work. But I have to remind this House too, because you know one time we have a short memory, what SYRIZA had promised in advance about labour issues. He said, for example, that the national collective labour contract will be fully reintroduced, which will decide on the minimum wage. He said a minimum wage of EUR 751, said about doubling the unemployment benefit to all the unemployed, said a ban on redundancies and restoring the veto to the Minister. Abolition of flexible forms of employment, maintenance of trade union law, immediate reintroduction of public contracts, abolition of the jungle and the working middle ages. This is on your schedule. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] What have you been doing for two and a half years? Why did you refer to work? The dramatic decline in employees' wages through exterior taxes and an increase in contributions - hence the primary surplus so large - loss of two hundred thousand jobs. Indeed, because you wish to reduce unemployment, in 2016 unemployment was closed to 23.5%. On the basis of the programme, if you had not done this catastrophic 2 years of your own governance, not with our own data, but with EUROSTAT, it would have been at 19.5% with all the predictions. As I said before, total sovereignty for the first time in flexible forms of employment. Of course, unfortunately, on the basis of your own policies, the rate of declining unemployment has completely depleted. In particular, from the fourth quarter of 2016, unemployment increased by one unit, from 22.6% to 23.6%. You are, of course, reintroducing the Minister's anachronistic'veto', which was responsible for thousands of redundancies and even invoking the government as a huge success in reintroducing the sectoral contracts, but you are not telling the truth to the Greek people, because it was already legislated. I am telling you in particular about Article 37 of Law 4024/2011, whose application has unfortunately been prevented because of your own policies over the last two years. So, before you move your finger on business, see what you said, what you did as government, and then come here, to put them down and finally see what the balance is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u301	Thank you, Mr. Kefaliannis. Minister Kokalis has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u302	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall refer to the previous debate on time. I do not think the speaker's time is as important as what he says. I have said several times here in this Chamber that everyone can say what they want and what they want, but those who are watching us have intelligence and especially Greek farmers. You will allow me, in the brief time left to close the procedure for the timely question by the Members of the New Democracy, to address some specific points which I must oppose. Firstly, one honourable Member said that coffee shops are now empty in the villages, that it is a desert of coffee. The cafes are devastated this year? Cafes, ladies and gentlemen, have been devastated since 2009. In the cafes you have taken care - along with PASOK - of putting blue and green in color without giving them vibrant. I do not want to deal with the past, but I do need to talk there too, because you themselves are literally causing your luck. You served policies to deal with the farmer, not a producer. You served easy lending policies. You've served wasteful policies. You served policies that were against the primary sector, with no real plan for productive reconstruction. May I remind you of the Greek Sugar Industry? As for the customs producers throughout the country, it was mentioned by one speaker and indeed by some people think that the more they shout, the more they think they are right. One has said - I think Mrs Arabatzis, without wanting a nominal reference - to pay tax, insurance, tax. The advance tax payment with which law was introduced? By Law 4179/2013. Is it or isn't it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u303	100%?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u304	Why didn't you change him?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u305	In 2016 with L.4386/2016, what is envisaged for professional farmers? Discount from EUR 1,900 to EUR 2.100 without any supporting documents. Is that the tax for farmers? To yell, to scream, to look at the apostle, to Chironis and to say, "What have you done, to tax, to insurance?" I'm telling you by law specific: tax deduction. The deposit when was it? Let me remind you, because you say about the primary sector, what have your colleagues voted on the European Fetassion - to remind you of it? -, which feta should finally become a national case and a single front?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u306	It was signed by Mr. Tsipras...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u307	He signed them...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u308	May I remind you that you served policies that did not protect the Greek farmer - borrower? May I remind you that during your days and during the days of PASOK this gigantic lending with illegal anatomy was gnawed? What did you do from 2010 to now? What is the bill you brought to facilitate, at least, the Greek farmers? What's the bill? What did you do about the primary sector? You are coming now and you are talking about the Rural Development Programme. First of all, the first contradiction: on the one hand, you say 'they will be forwards', they will not be euros' - on the other hand - and, at the same time, the same speaker or someone else says that funds will not be used. Pick. Or one or the other. On the one hand, you are accusing us of being indebted to the programme, not even the euro, and on the other hand, the funds will not be used.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u309	We did not say 'the front-wing'. You're distorting the meanings.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u310	Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Rural Development, on the one hand, manages the day-to-day problems of farmers. To say that we have taken care to put payments into order is, anyway, self-evident. On the other hand, however, we have publicly consulted the proposal that our country must bring together with the Greek farmers in the common agricultural policy. What model of agricultural policy do we want? What production road map? Something that has been absent from your own policies and especially from PASOK's governance over the past twenty years. That was your plan for Greek agriculture? Have you ever told Greek farmers what a common agricultural policy means? Come together what model of agricultural production we want. The Ministry of Rural Development made a public consultation with all parties to co-form our proposal for the future of Greek agriculture. I think that the New Democracy's topical question is a completely pretext, especially for the Rural Development Programme. Mr. Apostolos said so, too, and Mr. Tsironis proves himself by number. I will only dwell on this in the improvement plans. You say at some point that the improvement plans do not go any further. When four years have passed since 2007 and the measure was declared four years later, it is courageous to say that it was delayed two months in concrete measures. Thank you very much for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u311	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, according to the Rules of Procedure, the debate has been completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u312	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u313	Mr President, I am also entitled to tritology.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u314	Wait a minute, Mr. Stylio and Mr. Kefaliannis. Let me run. Mr. Apostle has asked to intervene. I think that because we are at the end, now, we do not need to stay very strict in formality, but not to open a dialogue. Well, the Minister wants to intervene. As a question, Mr Kefaliannis, you also have the option and the right to close with a three-minute. I would therefore like to ask the Minister, without further intervention, to intervene and to give the answers, and then Mr Kefaliannis, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, as questions arise, is closing the procedure with a three-minute period. Let us not stay too strict in time, but let us agree, so with good intentions. Minister, you have the floor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u315	I'll talk for two minutes. No problem. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sure the Greek people, especially the rural area that has listened to us, understood that we are not all the same. We are not all the same, not only in the effort we are making and in the sincerity with which we are approaching the rural area, but above all in our effectiveness. I would like to remind you that the biggest problem facing the rural area for at least four years was EUR 315 million every year, due to the poor management of the great pasture issue. This has already been completed - together with the other fines due to the mismanagement of aid - over EUR 1.7 billion. At the same time, then, there was another huge problem, EUR 1.3 billion, because of these regular types of Hatzidakis - and you all know it. That's a huge problem. They have asked, in particular, for EUR 550 million in the part concerning cooperatives. How do we get them back from now on? Is that what you know what it takes? In particular, we need a convincing approach, which we are trying to do against the European Commission, to reduce as much fines as possible. So we're not the same. We are fighting in this process. I am truly surprised that the Party of Officers, which has enormous responsibilities for everything I have said, is using tactics of the type 'you have done them, you will pay them'. The rural world will pay for it. So there we have to approach matters with a consensus. At the moment the rural area has 6 billion debts. Over 4 billion is due. Tell me, tell me your proposal, what to do, how to deal with it. So our anxiety has to do with the future, it has nothing to do with regular parties and tactics that are muddling and damage to the rural area.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u316	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty-three students and students and seven educational attendants from the 2nd Municipal School of Polykastro Kilkis and from the Municipal School of Kardamulou Chios. The House welcomes them. Guys, you're at the end of the process. Soon we'll finish, but it's okay, even for a while you'll see how the process is progressing. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Stylion, you have asked for the floor for a minute. You know he's out of order. I would not like to deprive you of that possibility. I would like you to think, however, that it should only be for a minute, because your colleague follows and what he says will say. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u317	I will need less than a minute, Mr President. I would like to restore the truth and also to record in the Minutes that I have used the dentistry, but there has also been an interruption from the Bureau, so all the time is not solely counted on me, it is not my time alone. However, for personal reasons I want to refer to this point. I was a member of the previous Ministerial Council, the government of Mr Samaras. In October 2014 at the Ministerial Council and December 2014 at a conference with regional government the Rural Development Programme for the period 2014-2020 was announced by the previous government and there officially, in the institutions, to the highest degree, such as the Ministerial Council, there was the announcement that 1/3 of the Rural Development Programme, that is to say an amount of 1,8 billion euro, will be allocated to manage the Greek regions today. The government was delayed and this decision was implemented in October 2016, close to two years later, with many other relics. It is not the biggest problem, however. The biggest problem is that the sums given by 1.8 billion are 1.2 billion. I said it in my prototype. Why is it 1.2 billion? Because 900 million from the previous programme were not used, Mr President. This money has been deprived and, if you count it in leverage and motion, calculate how much money the Greek public could have received. I'd like to say one last thing. For the first time, 500 million euros were established in the Rural Development Programme for compensation, which is so much needed by the mountain and disadvantaged regions of our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u318	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Kefaliannis, I don't even put time on the last speakers. I trust you well that you won't be late.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u319	I'll be very brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u320	Thank you very much. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u321	I will begin with the last phrase of the Minister, who said we should leave the tactics behind. Now here really, let's say it popular, look who's talking. I am not referring personally to the Minister, but to the SYRIZA Government, the SYRIZA party, which has been used to us all years and as opposition and as government only in order, of course, at the expense of both the economy and political life and society. I have listened very carefully - because the debate is now closing and we must also make an account of the debate - and of the Minister, but above all Mr Tsironi and Mr Kokalis, analyzing what has not happened in the past few years, taking back opposition to the opposition and not mentioning specifically what has happened over their own days. Why, you know, the purpose of parliamentary control, the timely question is the opposition to ask about the work of the government. You want to compare to the past? Well, you better do it. However, we did not really hear a word from Mr. Tsironi - I speak personally - and from Mr. Kokalis - all right, Mr. Apostlelos mentioned some things - about what happened in their own portfolio these months, these years, governing SYRIZA and Independent Greeks. You will also allow me to refer, and I will close with that, Mr President, two obsolete references made by Mr Kokkatellis on the taxation of farmers. I have very detailedly analysed in my first speech the burden on Greek farmers and farmers due to the rule of SYRIZA and Independent Greeks. What Mr. Kokalis doesn't say is that on the government of SYRIZA and Independent Greeks he had a 100% tax deposit for the Greek farmer, the Greek farmer. If they wanted to change the deposit, the majority have it and they could have it. So the lionisms that you brought the deposit, which was in 50%, and it became 100% on your own days and you didn't change it, to leave them elsewhere. I'll close the feta thing with a very brief report. The question of feta in the European Parliament has gone with the signature of Mr Tsipras and Mr Kammenos, otherwise it would not be in the debate. So all of this, what happened with the vote there and what was voted by each parliamentary group, too, to put it aside. If the Greek Government did not want it to have gone to the European Parliament, it would not have gone. It means, therefore, that Mr Tsipras and Mr Kammenos accept this policy, and from there on, leave that to the point. There must be a serious debate, but everyone must know what their responsibilities are in this Chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u322	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u323	Mr President, please, the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u324	Minister, about the feta thing?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u325	Just a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u326	You've got thirty seconds, or we'll open the barrel later.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u327	Dear colleague, the feta was closed in Ottawa, when the summit was held and the then Greek Prime Minister, Mr Samaras, Mr Barozo, from the European Commission and the Canadian Prime Minister participated. What Malmstrom said to me, Commissioner Trade later, when we 'greater' very much, was that agreements made at the level of Heads of State are not being discussed again. But what did we do? We in this case, because we were constantly reacting, were able to incorporate into the agreement a commitment from the European Commission that, within the transitional period of application of the agreement, full protection of feta will be ensured. In other words, the term "feta" in Canada's white cheeses will not be used after the transitional period. That's it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u328	Thank you, Minister. The debate on the number 19/16/24-4-2017 topical question, concerning the unprecedented delay in the development of the 2014-2020 Rural Development Programme and all EU financial instruments, is hereby concluded. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-05-S1-commons.u329	With the consent of the House at 15.03 p.m. the sitting for the next Monday, May 8, 2017, at 17.00 p.m., on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: (a) the topical and urgent debate and (b) the debate on Question No 18/15/5-4-2017, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
