ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before entering the normal procedure, I would like to make it known to the House that the Ministers for Rural Development and Food, Foreign and Finance have today tabled a draft law: 'Under the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on cooperation in agriculture'. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Preparation of the Convention on Central Customs, as regards the allocation of national collection costs retained when making available the traditional own resources to the EU budget’. The draft law was adopted in the Standing Committee by a majority. It is introduced to the House in accordance with the procedure laid down in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, namely those who object to the ratification of this agreement. Does a colleague want to take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u2	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u3	Here, Mr. Caracosta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u4	In the committee we voted against.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u5	Yes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u6	Thank you. The implementation of the central customs procedure is another case of the assignment of national responsibilities to a European central office, fully controlled by the interests and objectives of Brussels. Each Member State of the European Union, and in particular the weakest and most economically vulnerable states in the European south, are thus deprived of the possibility of adequate and comprehensive control of imported and exported products and lose the right to shape the rules and framework for the movement of goods on the basis of the real needs of their national economy. This situation will obviously work for the benefit of the strong economic countries of the European Union and, in particular, Germany, which regulates the framework and rules in each area of economic activity in a centralised manner, supposedly in favour of the European entity, but in fact in the interest of German interests. This makes it difficult for the weaker economic structures and countries to recover, by increasing their production and exports of their products produced and to third countries on the basis of criteria that are primarily national free of restrictions and dictates to European bureaucracy. Greece could possibly be subject to conditions, in view of its geographical position, to benefit from the system of reallocating the collection revenues and this could be because it could be the country of entry of the products before they were introduced into the final recipient Member State. The sad thing is, however, that even until now and while it has been pointed out in committee, the Ministry is deaf and has not presented a study in which revenues will be reflected, as well as an implementation diagram of the Convention in practice. It would be interesting in the explanatory statement or the rapporteur's report, which you have presented to us, to mention and what time is the procedure followed by the other Member States - Member States of the European Union, to understand the role of Greece, but also how it works with regard to its other potential counterparties. In addition, from 2009, which signed the Convention, by 2012, which was supposed to be revised, and by 2017, which we are discussing, it would be particularly beneficial to know what its returns are and what the guarantees for the Member States that have already incorporated it into their national law and implemented it. In this respect, no economic study has been presented which assesses the financial benefits and burdens for Greece. On the contrary, the report of the State General Accountancy reports a loss of revenue of the State budget due to the yield of 50% of the remaining collection costs in another State, which may be counterfacted by an increase in State budget revenue. In other words, the General Accounting Office of the State states in its report that it is a given financial loss of the Greek State as a counterparty under this Convention. In this case, too, the Ministry responsible is signing unconditionally the damage in advance by the Greek State. The possible compensation, with an increase in public revenue, is certainly unlikely, because Greece, with almost zero production, cannot export products and, therefore, the burden of the State budget is due to the fact that Greece will not be either the state responsible for issuing the permits or the State carrying out the checks. It should also be stressed that customs administration is under the control of the Ministry of Finance, in particular the General Secretariat of Public Revenue. The General Secretariat of Public Revenues from 1-1-2017 is based on a Memorandum of Independent Authority with foreign supervision. The role of the Greek Minister responsible is purely procedural. It is true that even the customs office, that is to say the economic, fiscal, tariff and so on, is responsible. the imported products are entrusted to foreign authorities and this justifies why Greece signes this Convention without having previously ensured its own economic interests. In conclusion, only the prevalence of economic nationalism in the fields of the production and movement of goods and economic and trade relations between the national states can be the response of the national sovereign states to the director and the anti-national mechanisms of Brussels. Our proposal, as Golden Dawn, considers it necessary to increase national production with the State in its role as the protector of domestic products, with strict supervision and control over imported products, by introducing the necessary safeguards so that it does not lead to the importation of goods and goods at the expense of domestic production. For the reasons set out above, the Golden Dawn is voting against this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u7	Mr President, I would like to speak, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u8	Here you go, Mr. Delia.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a draft law that ratifys the European Union Convention on the Central Customs of Goods, and what regulates is the allocation for cases of central customs, where two different Member States are involved, that is 20% being retained as revenue from the Member State which collects customs duties on behalf of the European Union. What it does is to allocate it 50% - 50% to the two countries involved in the customs process. The first thing we want to note is that in front of us we have a convention signed by the New Democracy as a government and brought to Parliament, for its incorporation into national law, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, with the vote of the other anti-population parties who drink water in the name of the European Union. You're going to tell me: is this the first time that this is happening? Not, of course, when it comes to a contract or a directive of the European Union, this phenomenon is repeated over the entire two-year period of SYRIZA governance. As far as I'm concerned, you're getting into more practical things. Would you stick to a central customs contract? Now, by this contract, what are you doing? While you all know that our country is a country of entry of goods for the European Union, while all of you want to make Greece a gateway to entry the European Union and a transit centre, to achieve these goals you give land and water: Privately privatise ports, airports, trains, national roads. You come and vote for 20% of the receipts from customs duties on imported products to share it with other countries and while you all know that Greece is mainly a country of import of products from third countries. Finally, what is happening is that you are serving with religious reverence the interests of our country's bourgeoisie, which, in order to ensure its general interests, its profitability, that is, it consciously chooses its cooperation with the urban ranks of the rest of the European Union. The invocation of the Convention for its revision in Article 9 after three years, or the possibility of denounced by each of the Contracting Parties to Article 10, is not an alibi, since you are now very well aware that our country will be lost by this sharing. Since that is the case, since the position of the other parties is given given and demonstrated by their attitude and anguish to close the second evaluation of the third memorandum, which will load our people with a new heavy package of anti-grassroots measures, the main issue, therefore, is what our people are doing. In our opinion, the main thing is for the people to think about how it will be done today to stop bleeding, in order to remove uncertainty from the profits or profits of business groups, to organise their struggle against the main opponent, which is the action of capital to serve his profits, to get the keys to the economy in his own hands. It is only in that way that we say that it will actually be able to design it in such a way that it serves its own exclusive needs. If you want, it is also a good opportunity to intervene in the developments, taking part in the rallys on 21 February throughout Greece, in order to give a strong answer, his answer, to the plans of the Government, the European Union and capital. To stop, i.e. payroll, to return the sectoral collective agreements to work, to restore, to claim and to dominate the highest right to permanent and stable work. This will be done with his struggle, his intervention, which struggle can leave a positive footprint for the follow-up. As is clear after what we have said, we are voting against this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u10	Mrs. Undersecretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u11	We want to talk, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u12	I would also like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u13	We want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u14	You in the committee had...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u15	As a parliamentary representative I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u16	You want to say something now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u17	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u18	Wait a minute, Mrs. Undersecretary. Here you go, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u19	Is there such a procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u20	There is, of course, one, Mr. Comrade. You've watched her over and over again. Mr President, thank you for giving me the floor. I wanted to ask the Minister a question that Mr Arvanitidis has put to the committee, but we did not receive a reply. It does not alter the final product of our own attitude, we shall vote. And we know very well what the powers of the government are when it promotes ratification of such a text. Mr Arvanitides, however, had asked you, because from the General Accounting Office, we had not taken any view, if the arrangements of the text we do want, which want a product, when it is sold here, but is destined for another Member State of the European Union, the fees will be divided into 50% here, 50% in the State of destination. You should tell us, as compared to today, what the possible losses of the Greek State will be during this critical period or if there will be no losses at all. That is what my colleague has considered as very important and indeed so. With common sense, if anyone sees it, that conclusion will come to light.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u21	Good, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u22	No, I'm not done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u23	Aren't you done?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u24	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u25	You said you were going to.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u26	No, I said I wanted to make a specific speech. My second point, Mr President - and I am asking for an understanding, not tolerance - was raised yesterday in the Committee on Social Affairs. It is about an intervention by the Prime Minister on Friday here, in response to a colleague, not the Democratic Co-responsibility...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u27	That's irrelevant, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u28	Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u29	Understanding has its limits.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u30	Don't you let me talk? Parliamentary representatives are taking the floor. As you know very well from the Rules of Procedure, we are not just posted for the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u31	Good. I gave you the floor. You asked the question. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u32	I want to make a generalization on a matter of political interest, very serious, that runs the days we live.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u33	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u34	Then, Mr President, we are going to circle.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u35	I say, Mr. Loverdo, no. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u36	Please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u37	You asked the question. Mrs. Undersecretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u38	No, Mr President, I want to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u39	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u40	I want to finish. I have the right. I'm not finished.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u41	Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u42	So I was saying that on Friday, in reply to a colleague, the Prime Minister told him - I'm talking about ladies and gentlemen, on the issue of the Doll - about...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u43	Mr. Loverdo, please very much. You know very well what is allowed and what is not allowed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u44	Why are you doing this? I'd be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u45	To whom are you addressing this question?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u46	I'm addressing the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u47	Why do I do it, or why do you do it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u48	I have a right. I exercise my right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u49	You have no right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u50	Of course I have, in the economy of the specific articles of the Rules of Procedure, as formulated in the months of SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u51	Please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u52	What's your request?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u53	Finish. That's what I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u54	I will finish my thoughts, or else remove my word. It is very simple to do it, but consider what you are doing. MEP, Parliamentary Representative of Representation, makes political generalisation, addressed to the relevant Minister. Why are you cutting my word?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u55	You told me to give you the floor to ask the State Secretary a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u56	I told you I wanted to intervene.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u57	By way of derogation, I gave you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u58	I asked a question. I criticise the government and it is up to her to answer or not. Don't answer. If you consider the burden that you are here today and you complain, tell us. But, here, when the House opens up, crucial issues that the Prime Minister has raised will not be left in the air. Well, I was saying, Mr President, that in reply to a question from a Member, the Prime Minister said that the government cannot monitor our proposal - our own proposal - to open an account from a bank for the workers of the Doll, for their operational needs, for their losses and paper, for the newspaper to be released, because there is an irrevocable decision from the court. But yesterday, in carrying out a review, he considered that a specific account should be unlocked, released, and so the newspaper is reopening. I am disappointed that the opposition had done, he says, a proposal and we had not responded. We had responded. For 15 days we have tabled our proposals to the President of the Parliament and we have listened positively to the Prime Minister once again in this Chamber. Madam Minister, we are no longer needed by the workers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u59	All right, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u60	Until March 3rd...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u61	Mr. Loverdo...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u62	Let go of me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u63	Please. Please. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u64	By March 3rd, newspapers can function properly. Do you have anything to tell us about the lie of the Prime Minister, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u65	Madam Secretary, on the matter of your competence, answer if you please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u66	First of all, I think that Mr Loverdes should withdraw for the Prime Minister's "false" because in this particular case, all the Prime Minister did not do was intervene in justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u67	Why did he say it was irreversible?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u68	Justice examined the issues and decided that one of the accounts in the DOL should be given, so that the newspapers can continue to be published.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u69	Why did he say it was irreversible?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u70	Please, Mr. Loverdo! You don't have the right to do that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u71	Why did he say it was irreversible?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u72	Mr. Loverdo!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u73	From that point on, you'd tell us that we're interfering with justice if we did anything else. We let justice be free to do its job.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u74	Why did he say it was irreversible?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u75	It is for this reason that one of the members' accounts has been given, so that the cards can continue to be issued.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u76	Why did he say it was irreversible?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u77	Please very much, Mr. Loverdos! There is also parliamentary control. If you want, you can ask, get the answers where you need to. Use parliamentary control. You have the right, you are a Member, you can ask the questions and get the same answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u78	Why did he say it was irreversible?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u79	From there on, every time you come up and you put things out of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u80	What do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u81	Mr. Loverdo, this isn't a field!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u82	Almond! I think you can exercise parliamentary control. Like all other Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u83	This isn't your house. It's the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u84	Mr. Loverdo, this isn't a field!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u85	From there on, on the specific subject we have to deal with today.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u86	You think you're here for a walk?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u87	From there on, on the specific subject we have today.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u88	You don't hear Mr. Loverdos. Turn off the microphone. It doesn't sound!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u89	The Central Customs Convention regulates the question of reallocating national collection costs withholding the traditional own resources to the budget of the European Union. The amount of the recovery costs shall be 20% of the own resources in accordance with Article 2(3) of Council Decision 2014/335 of the European Union. This convention fulfils the Council's commitment that, with the entry into force of the modernised Community Customs Code, there should be legally binding rules for the allocation of collection costs. It was necessary, because of the involvement in the process of centralised customs clearance of two customs offices belonging to different Member States. In particular, there is provision for 50% of the own resources to be assigned to the supervising Member State - Member State for the cost of managing authorisations and for the release of goods for free circulation and for the remaining 50% of the own resources in the Member State - Member State for the checks carried out at entry. During the central customs procedure, the importer who must have the status of economic operator may submit the customs declaration electronically from the premises of the customs office of his place of residence, i.e. the territorial jurisdiction of the customs office where the premises of the importer and the place where his customs record is kept, irrespective of the Member State where the goods enter the customs territory of the Community. The necessary data for the control of goods shall be exchanged electronically between the customs office of introduction and entry. The customs debt shall be paid to the office of importation, i.e. where the declarant is established. To answer the questions raised during the debate in the committee responsible, I would like to say: First of all, the central customs procedure has not been implemented until now. So we cannot know exactly what the revenue we may have from the other countries, which are making central customs. So they're being imported into our country. The Central Customs Convention will also apply if it is ratified by all the Member States. It has already been ratified by all Member States except Belgium and our country. The implementation will start in 2020. There is no obligation to return any amount retroactively. Today 20% of the own resources are retained and it remains all in our country, without the administrative costs being incurred. The only element we can give you is central customs, with the amount that is being retained today in Greece. We do not know, however, from the other Member States, what will flow into Greece. What is in Greece today is 47,200,000 euros. That's what we can give you. 20% of this will be given to the other States under the relevant convention.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u90	Thank you. The debate on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance is hereby terminated: ‘Preparation of the Convention on Central Customs, as regards the allocation of national collection costs retained in the making available of traditional own resources to the EU budget’. Asked by this House: Can the bill be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u91	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u92	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u93	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u94	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u95	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u96	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u97	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u98	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u99	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Undertaking of the Central Customs Convention, as regards the allocation of national collection costs retained at the time the traditional own resources were made available to the EU budget’, was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of articles and all of the following:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u100	We shall continue with the second draft agenda. Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: "Following the Agreement between the Hellenic Republic, the Republic of Albania, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and the European Commission for the Protection and Sustainable Development of the Prespa Park Area". The draft law was adopted by a majority vote in the Standing Committee and is brought to the House under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, namely those who object to the ratification of this agreement. Does a colleague want to speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u101	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u102	Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr President. This ratification was signed by Greece, the Albanians, the Skopje and the European Commission on 2 February 2010. In other words, he comes to the House with a quite significant delay. The signing and, of course, the implementation of this agreement was an initiative and commitment by the then Prime Minister of Greece Giorgos Papandreou - I mention it because he also has his notebook - who met in Prespa in November 2009 with his counterparts from neighbouring countries who share the Prespecies Basin. The agreement was signed a few months later by the then Minister of Finance Tina Burbilis. In the area there are four national parks, the National Prespecies Park in Greece, the National Prespecies Park in Albania and two National Parks in the Skopje regions. The National Park of Prespes in Greece stands out for the rich natural environment, the subtle landscape, the architecture of the settlements and the unique Byzantine monuments, while it is protected by European and national laws, as well as international treaties. What does the deal provide for? Some of its main points are: Management with wisdom of the quality and quantity of the water of the Prespes, paying particular attention to the water level of both lakes, systematic controls and reduction of water pollution of the Prespes Park area, protection and conservation of the biodiversity of the area mainly through the protection of endemic, rare and threatened species of flora and fauna, and through the restoration and management of ecosystems, soil protection against erosion, degradation, contamination and pollution, prevention of the introduction and rearing of foreign species of fauna and flora. The problems recorded are as follows: While the water level of the Great Prespa goes down to eight metres at ten years, pollution is increasing. The main cause is the uncontrolled pumping from Albania and Skopje. With huge pipes, thousands of cubic water are pumped daily, consuming the water volume of the lake dangerously. Furthermore, neighbouring states do not apply either the prohibition of fishing during the fertilisation of fish in May. The little Prespa, which is shallow and sensitive, is at risk of being destroyed by the bearable materials of the Devoy River. This threat is very serious because it is also the intention of the Albanians to water 300,000 acres - as I said in committee - with the waters of the lake. We believe there is no one who disagrees with the protection of the Prespecies Park, that there is no one who disagrees with the protection of the environment of the Prespecies, the organizations that live there. Nor does anyone disagree with the protection of settlements, the promotion of the particularities of the region. In fact, it is true that it must - and indeed must - protect the Prespecies Park which is, in any case, protected not only by national but also by European laws and international treaties. But such agreements, under the pretext of protecting the environment, are, in fact, attempted by micropolitical agreements. The explanatory statement mentions - and indeed features - that the Prespecies Park aims to protect the environment and improve the level of life of residents by promoting friendly cooperation between the three countries which share the Prespecies. What is always about all these sanctions is this: What will apply in practice? How will all these various issues be implemented? In fact, there are reasonable concerns and questions. For example, will it be possible to monitor and monitor the environmental status of lakes? Will water management, as described in Article 5, be effective? Article 7. How will the so-called cross-border consequences be eliminated? Article 8. In cooperation with international organisations and donors, among others, the German Bank for Reconstruction, the German Technical Support Office, the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation, as well as institutions of the European Union and others, as they are typically mentioned. Why do these agencies in particular? Who are the others? Are we talking about suspicious interests, about NGOs that are basically their interests, beyond and above the protection of the environment, which here is a cover? In Article 11, however, there is talk of participation by non-governmental organisations in the responsibilities of the Management Committee. In Article 16, the resolution of disputes shall state that the Parties shall endeavour to resolve it by negotiating or by any other means of international dispute resolution, which they accept. How will this be done with the Albanians and the Skopje who are given their hostile attitude to our country? We reiterate that everyone is in favour of protecting the Prespes Park and highlighting an excellent area of our country. But this will not be done by such agreements, which, under the pretext of so-called environmental protection, serve and promote suspicious plans and objectives, interests of various class circles, banking agents and various suspected non-governmental organisations. Golden Dawn is voting against this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u104	Thank you. Mr. Delis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that measures need to be taken to deal with a situation created in the Prespecies region by a policy, of course, which was carried out in the previous period. However, we consider that the approaches of the type of 'isolation or cooperation' are simplistic. You say that the bill is in a positive direction, one that cooperates with countries for problems that do not know borders. The question is whether such approaches can deal with the problem. The question for us is not whether or not there should be cooperation between the three countries, but cooperation with what objective and, above all, what purpose. We - and we say this here, we have also told the committee - disagree with the objectives and objectives of this agreement. In addition to the wishes and great words, pure intentions, there are above all the proclaimed objectives of the European Union, and there is its practice, as is the policy of the governments to date with regard to environmental problems. And this government - it does not first of all - considers that membership of the European Union is a guarantee, for cooperation between the three countries and for the protection of the environment. Of course, the European Union, through its participation in financing very specific actions, aims to ensure the power and profitability of its own business groups in conditions of increased international competition. That is why it encourages investment in new technologies, seeks to establish so-called green development that it ensures and protects the environment. Its aim is also to obscure the main cause of the acute problems of the environment, i.e. the unregulated growth on the sole basis of capitalist profit, the merchandise of land and water and energy. The aim of the European Union is therefore to ensure that, as we have said, the profits of its own business groups are extended. This action is no guarantee of the protection of the cross-border park of the Prespes and the environment in general. But now, let's see some examples to see where he's doing it. The main aim of the agreement is to manage the water. On what basis, however, will it be managed? The agreement itself clarifies it: 'Basic is international and European standards'. But what are these European standards? The European Union's policy has been formulated by the relevant directive, which has transformed water from good to good. It leads to privatization, to an increase in the cost of water for all people, but also to agricultural production. And that's true. And we ask the Minister here: are you prepared or not to impose an additional environmental charge, supposedly, for irrigation and water. The cost of water, we simply say, is another weapon - among other things - for the extinguishing of the poor farmhouse, which today gave its own bronze present here in Athens. Of course, rational water management is a prerequisite for the development of the area, for the healthy living conditions of peoples and the protection of the environment, but for the benefit of the peoples of the region and not the urban classes, as this agreement seeks. Another example. Will they find employment in tourism, the economy sector, with a bright outlook due to the increase in bird observation tourism? Let's assume it's going to happen. What will be won by such a development? What will the people of the region gain? Investments will be made by the people who own the funds, deporting the young who currently own a guesthouse or a tavern. The fact is that the workers and the poor are not going to invest. For them, the prospect that you look after them is the removal from their land and migration for the major cities. The Prespes region is a suitable area that does not leave the capital for its investment goals unarmed. Only the conditions must be created for profitability. And that's what you're going to create with your policy. This is also the objective of the so-called CFP of the European Union. Article 3 identifies sectors which would be of interest to business groups, i.e. funds that are looking for new areas of profitability. In addition to water management, the agreement describes the so-called low intensity livestock farming, fisheries regulations, prudent uses, waste management, network improvement, sustainable development, tourist development strategy, etc. [[At this point, the closing bell of the honourable Member's speech hits a warning bell.]] I need a minute, Mr President. Therefore, only by listing what I said, this agreement speeds up capitalist exploitation and investment on the basis of the alleged protection of the environment of the Prespes. The main aim of the agreement is to provide solutions from the market, business groups interested in profitability rather than real environmental protection. Does it not make any impression to you that the interest that exists - I am referring to Article 8 - comes from German banks, from the German Bank for Reconstruction, from institutions of the European Union and others? So, the banking capital, the monopolies, the European Union took all these pains to protect the environment of the Prespecies? In the same article, 8 provides for the participation of so-called non-governmental organisations. "Don't" can be put into introductory forms. As our people say, 'where marriage and joy first'. How do they smell the roast, though, huh? Straight ahead. However, like the European Union, you are normally feeding them up to the obligation of the state to protect the environment. Now, indeed, who have acquired rich experience of immigration, how can you exclude them from protecting the environment? In conclusion, combined management of water resources by water catchment area may contribute to the protection of the environment, the conservation of wetlands, the gradual upgrading of rivers and coastal ecosystems. But what is the real obstacle to doing this? These are the strategic choices of the ruling class and the European Union that all your governments and yours serve.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u106	All right, Mr. Delis, you're clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u107	I should like to close by saying this: in short, Mr President, the capitalist development path, where water, electricity, food, land and forestry ecosystems are simply goods, is the most sure way of protecting all those who are supposed to be protecting them. We are voting against the bill, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, too. Minister Famelos has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u109	Thank you very much, Mr President. I think that in the committee with colleagues we have had a lot of discussions about the Prespecies, but perhaps some things are worth mentioning here, since the region is also watching us, but also the rest of the citizens, who are interested in the issue of the environment. In the Prespa region for four million years, one of the oldest lakes in Europe, people's lives have been inextricably linked to the lakes in all three countries. In fact, we must say that the region is characterized by high biodiversity and geodiversity, but also by the fact that for many years now man has been working harmoniously next to nature and within nature. And this also bears witness to the Byzantine and post-Byzantine findings that exist in the region. At the same time, however, more than two thousand species of plants are hosted in the area of the Greek Prespa, one/3 of the Greek flora and a number more than all the biodiversity of some central European countries. There, however, there is the largest silver pelican reproductive colony with more than a thousand two hundred pairs. We have discussed all this in committee. The cross-border Prespa hosts three peoples, two lakes and a common feeling that is love for the place and love for the environment. Both the citizens of the region and the three states seek to discuss common management, environmental rules, compliance with the conditions and to promote development in the region. The challenges for the implementation of the agreement are rather than too many. And these concern, of course, the living of the citizens, the conditions in the agricultural sector, the production conditions, the species and the local products and the characteristics and, more generally, the harmonious coexistence of man with nature, because we also have to admit that rural tourism in this area - ecotourism - ecotourism - gives us additional advantages that the region expects the Greek Parliament to decide today. The ratification of the agreement will form the basis for systematic cooperation between the three peoples at all levels. And I wonder, when I hear the colleagues here either in the committee: If we do not proceed with ratification of the agreement, will there not be any chance of finding a common way, of having a common way of discussing both transnational and internationalism, the work of the nations, or the level of the environment, to gain something new for the region? It is obvious, ladies and gentlemen, that cooperation and protection and peaceful coexistence will also be suspended and delayed if we do not take this step. Greece has for many reasons delayed ratification of the agreement, a debate which began seventeen years ago in the Prespecies region. It can, however, move quickly from now on, and so, at the same time, we can practically recognise the particular importance of the Prespecies park for man and nature, but also the fact that the agreement can promote sustainable development through the protection of the region and good neighbourly relations, in an area of particular sensitivity, an area of great importance to us in the Balkans. Therefore, the agreement will also allow work - to strengthen and develop work - and also to implement joint actions at business level and at the level of the social economy and small and medium-sized enterprises. And, of course, it will help us - it will help the region, not only us - to implement the European acquis in the rules on the environment, in the regulations of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and Albania. And that is the priority, the advantage that our country has in the region, by applying these rules and being a member of the Eurozone as part of this convention. The agreement on the cross-border park was launched at the initiative of the Greek side. And it's been seventeen years from there. This mood was confirmed in 2009. In 2010, the three Environment Ministers and the European Commissioner signed this agreement. During this decade, with too many meetings, a number of common documents were acquired, which are available for the region. And these documentaries are very useful. Seven years after this agreement, I think it is worth answering to the people in the region, the political initiative that has taken, if you like, the actions needed for this agreement, the Government of the region, the institution of the Prespecies and all the Greeks that, yes, we can move forward and trust in transnational cooperation in the cross-border Prespa and trust in cooperation on the basis of the guidelines for the protection of nature and cultural heritage. We can turn water into a co-operation factor. This is the area that the environment gives us as a material of cooperation with the neighbouring countries. Water for us is not a field of competition and conflict, but a field of cooperation between peoples and states. The objects that the Contracting Parties agree to manage are as follows: The management of the quality and quantity of water. With what rules? With the rules for pursuing the best ecological status of water. No connection to merchandise, no connection to everything described by Members of this House today. On the contrary, water management is an economic acquis that we must pursue and does not suspend the operation of citizens. On the other hand, it also supports economic activities and the functioning of the environment. At the same time, we agree through this framework to make it possible to control and reduce pollution, to protect and maintain biodiversity, to protect soil, the prudent use of natural resources, to prevent foreign species, animals and plants from being imported and raised, and to regulate economic activities. With these contents, is there a political force which disagrees with moving towards a common road that meets the needs of citizens and the environment? Because that is the question raised today in the Greek Parliament. We believe that the agreement gives our country the opportunity to take initiatives and play a leading role in the region. It gives Greece another tool to be able to intervene and operate for the benefit of fair growth. And this agreement can support this development. And we have to note that the hospitality of the secretariat for the first four years from our country, the first years that will play and the crucial role in shaping the agenda, is very important and gives us additional advantages that we need to take into account. Ladies and gentlemen, the absence of an agreement will undermine the environment. It is an anti-scientific and anti-environmental option. The region, the citizens, and the environment themselves, as stockpile of the country, await the ratification of the agreement by the Greek Parliament. I think the Greek Parliament today will respond to this obligation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, too. Eventually in the case of the Prespecies the first four million years have been difficult, now everything will be fine. The debate on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy is hereby terminated: ‘Preparation of the Agreement between the Hellenic Republic, the Republic of Albania, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and the European Commission for the Protection and Sustainable Development of the Prespecies Park Area’. Asked by this House: Can the bill be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u111	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u112	Yes, with a small point in relation to the sanction that we are discussing. I also spoke to the committee. We want to say and hear in the Greek Parliament that it is not binding and immediate that the introduction of the European acquis into the legislation of the Contracting Parties is not binding and should, in our view, be a condition that is incomprehensible. The second asterisk, which we are proposing, is that in Article 10 in relation to the establishment of the committee, there is a reference to NGOs and it is not exactly clear what the action of NGOs should be to participate in the management service. So we say 'yes', but we want to point out to the Minister that the road to hell is in good intentions. He must be much more careful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u113	We take it as an asterisk, because the interpretation of votes is not meant. We're going on with the rest of the parties. Can the bill be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u114	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u115	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u116	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u117	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u118	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u119	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u120	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: ‘Preparation of the Agreement between the Hellenic Republic, the Republic of Albania, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and the European Commission for the Protection and Sustainable Development of the Prespecies Park Area’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u121	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to ratify the Minutes of today's sitting on the vote on all these drafts.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u122	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-14-S1-commons.u123	With the consent of the House at 18.53 the meeting for the day after tomorrow, Thursday 16 February 2017 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's work (a) parliamentary scrutiny: discussion of topical questions; and (b) legislative work: only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity: "National Loader Register, National Register of Private Social Care Entities and other provisions", in accordance with the supplementary agenda distributed.
