ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: According to Parliament's approval from 7-6-2017, PL's minutes were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau of the PL's Proceedings of Wednesday, 7 June 2017, with regard to the adoption of all the draft laws: (a) the establishment of the Memorandum of Understanding on Sports between the Ministry of Culture and Sport of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Youth and Sport of the Arab Republic of Egypt; and (b) the establishment of the Memorandum of Understanding on Cooperation in Sport between the Ministry of Culture and Sport of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Youth and Sport of the Republic of Iraq.]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Friday 9 June 2017. (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 936-6-2017 of the Member of the Dodecanese Coalition of the Radical Left, Ilias Kamaterou, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the 'Spatial Travel Tourism'. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. H under number 940/6-2017 a topical question by MP Florina of New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Antoniadis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject of "The significant delays in the relocation of the settlement of Anargyra N. Florinas put the life of its residents at risk". 3. The question asked by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Economy and Development about the performance of the programme of granting residence permits to citizens of third countries through the purchase of real estate in our country or investments worth over 250. EUR 000 (Golden Visa Greece). 4. H under No 925/1-6-2017 a topical question by Evia MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Michou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on "The installation of 209 new wind turbines in southern Karysia, threatens biodiversity and economy". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 939/6-2017 by MP Achaias, New Democracy, Isona Folila, to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, concerning the immediate need for the construction of the commercial port of Patras. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by number 971/6-2017 of the Independent MEP Mr. Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Economy and Development about the need to integrate into the objectives of reducing the problematic loans of small business debt. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The first question will be discussed with number 927/2-6-2017, the second question from the Member of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Gerasimou (Makis) Balaoura to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the timetable for the notice of Measure 5.2 and its use for the restoration of damage to the damage caused by extreme weather phenomena. The question will be answered by the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Evangelos Apostolos. Mr Balaurras has the floor for two minutes. Warm request to keep time, because it follows a proposal for a law and we must be consistent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, as you know, Elias is highly dependent on agricultural production, but extremely vulnerable to all kinds of extreme weather and phytonosus. Within the last year, the rural economy of Elias has suffered great threats from both of these threats. The major disasters of September 2016 led to a catastrophic damage to the greenhouseries of the Eleikos Kampos, while a multitude of phytonosus have long been causing great damage to the crops by despairing the producers. For example: cross-cutting in citrus fruits, alteration of the fruit of the grape variety, glossoporium and olive wood, and also an undetermined cause that erupts large areas of black Corinthian grape, to the extent that producers are proposing to take planting measures. Minister, I happen to be a MP for Elias, my question is on account of Elias and the problems it faces, but it also concerns the whole rural world. In September 2016, following a tour that we went together to the affected terrestrial areas - an unprecedented phenomenon, which was not remembered by the oldest ones and which hit areas of the Eleonian Campus and destroyed large installations and caused great catastrophes - you talked about the possibility of using Measure 5.2 of the development law. On 18 January of this year in the previous day's debate on the heads of parties on the primary sector, you told me that you would go ahead with the implementation of Measure 5.2 in order to restore the damage, reaching up to 100% of them. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. So I ask you about the timetable for the notice of Measure 5.2 and what measures are you going to take to operate the research institutes, such as Ilias, to deal with phytosanitary diseases, the drying of the raisin, and the protection and utilization of genetic material? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor. I'm making a request about time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u4	Dear colleague, and you know that, it is indeed a good thing that the 2014-2020 Rural Development Programme also supports the restoration of the agricultural-productive potential affected by natural disasters. The eligible investments essentially relate to the restoration of agricultural production affected by natural phenomena. We have delegated the power to administer this measure to ELGA so that, through procedures and assigning consultants, we can implement this measure as quickly as possible. Especially for Elias, because together we have seen the damages that were great, but also the need to restore them, since they are also addressed to high-demand markets and we absolutely must continue this activity, we are in constant cooperation with ELGA services to complete the process. We therefore commit that, once the study on the cost of restoration has been completed - because these procedures - and we call on the same ones who have been damaged to go ahead with this process - have still not been completed, so that if early in autumn we have completed and we have in our hands the relevant studies, then we will immediately - and I say that before the end of the year - be proclaiming this measure. Of course I have to tell you that from the damages caused to Elias there have been causes that were covered by the ELGA, and there we proceeded with the damage assessment procedures, payments have been made, compensation has been paid for more than EUR 6,300,000 and our planning is until the end of June, indeed, all the damages that have been recorded and covered by ELGA to be covered. At the same time, because there are also damages related to installations, with equipment not covered by the ELGA, we have started the process through the PESA, the dossier is being prepared and submitted to the European Commission, and if, of course, the approval is there, but if there is also the Ministry of Finance in its programming to cover the PESA - the time has shortened - we will also satisfy these damages. For the other questions, I will answer my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u5	Mr Balaura, you have the floor for three minutes again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u6	Minister, I fear that I have not become wiser with what you said because - I understand you, of course - you have not given clear answers and timetables. I fear that the producers who have suffered the great damage - and I do not only mean the producers in the planting process, but I also mean the facilities, which I am asking the question - will not get any clear answers. I would ask you to have more clarity. The second thing I am interested in and I put it to the question is the question of research centres. In Elias, as I said before, we had a research centre, Korovo, who did a great job, kept the varieties, strengthened them, did various things, reproduced seeds of varieties and also operated to combat diseases. We do not have a clear indication that Corrov will be reopened, because with the previous government a statement was made of many scientists for the research centres, of which only one for southern Greece. These are problems - please very much - that there should be clear answers. Last thing is, if we can, we can talk a little bit about youth issues. As you can see, life is constantly changing, climate change brings not only the general issues that we know but also new diseases, which cannot be tackled easily. I would therefore ask you to tell me more specifically about these diseases and the dried-up of the raisin and all that I have already raised.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u7	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u8	I will repeat that this measure will be called before the end of the year. We are waiting for the relevant studies to be submitted, because we are talking about investments, damage recovery, and the necessary studies must be submitted, so that we too can exert pressure on our side, because this measure must definitely go ahead. With regard to the subject you raised for this Institute, at this time ELGA, ETHIAG, compiles the schools, all these institutes it has. In this context, therefore, a proposal for a law has been drawn up, and we in the Ministry have at the moment, but because there was a need for the establishment plan of the Ministry, we have already proceeded with this process, so the next phase is to see the establishment plans and generally the operation of the bodies supervised by the Ministry. We are now planning to set up a Institute for Plant Producers of the Peloponnese, West Greece and Ionian Islands based in Patras, which will come from the restructuring of the Plant Protection Department of Patras with a cognitive objective of genetic improvement - that is what exists in Patras - and, of course, this Institute will operate research divisions, one concerning the olive oil section in Kalamata, and the other is the fruit and vegetable sector based in Korovo Pyrgos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u9	As an annex, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u10	So we know that right now, a collaboration between ELGO - DIMITRA and Region of Western Greece has been developed so that through the cooperation protocol we have signed we can predict actions that are relevant to the prevention and treatment of all the things you mentioned. As far as wood is concerned, I would stress that the prevention of both Greece and Italy is extremely advanced, which is why nothing has happened, but nothing has happened in our country. So we believe that the fruit and vegetable sector in this region in particular, because it will be a great help to the Korovos of the Tower, this sector - the annex - is an issue which we will support, especially because we want local varieties and seeds that we need as a country to support and serve them and pass through the process and the partnerships that we have with the region but, above all, the operation of this plant.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u11	You gave a positive news, Minister, and thank you, but from there on it is a little unclear.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u12	Indeed, Mr President, this measure is a measure that is specifically buttoned in great damage, because we have no potential - you understand - and because they are not insured, the damage in question has not been covered by the ELGA, and you can be certain that, like you, it hurts us and we want to implement it as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u13	Thank you. We are now moving on to the first with number 926/2-6-2017 in the first cycle of the Halkidiki MP in the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Catherine Iglezi to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on compensation for the producers of Halkidiki for the destruction of arable crops. Please Mrs. Iglezi take the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u14	Minister, my question is in a similar climate. The extremely unfavourable weather conditions, and especially the protracted drought of the last period, have caused huge damage to the arable crops in Northern Greece. Producers of grains and nuts, especially in areas where production is early, such as Halkidiki, Thessaloniki, Pieria and Kilkis, are faced with total loss of their crops. I am also presenting to the Minutes of the sitting accompanying publication and photographs of the crop disaster. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Catherine Iglezi, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The critical period for the development of cereals is flowering up to the filling stage of the seed. The soil temperature and soil humidity determine the beginning of the seed plantation and the vegetation begins when the seeds absorb the necessary moisture. This year's weather and long-term anomaly did not allow cereals to grow, so that the maturation phase has begun without the plant's growth being completed. This leads producers to despair, because there is no production to be harvested. Incalculable damage has a huge negative impact on both cereals and nuts production and incomes and, more generally, on farmers' living standards. Cereal prices are already low from previous years and despite all this year's catastrophe, production costs remained high. Is the Minister asking: Does he intend to compensate farmers directly from the funds of the PESA, since the ELGA does not cover drought damage? What action does it intend to take to strengthen the cultivation of cereals and nuts, since durum wheat is an exportable product for the country and these productions strengthen domestic feed production?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u15	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u16	My dear colleague, and you agree that we are experiencing a period of intense climate change, which have a huge impact on agricultural production, on rural activity. We are living in the same time in burning areas in forests with huge impacts and in the next region we have such quartzfalls which cause great damage to agricultural production. The case you are referring to is indeed the case. In Macedonia, the wider region and Halkidiki we have had consequences from causes, which, unfortunately, as you said, are not covered by the insurance risks of ELGA. Of course, there is now a big issue, that we absolutely need to see again through proportionate studies and other insurance risks. We have already set up a committee, which is working on it, but you realise that it must go ahead with proportionate studies, so that we can reach a premium that also covers such risks. But in these cases we are compiling a dossier which shows that in these areas these natural disasters caused a certain loss to producers. This dossier is submitted to the European Commission. Of course, most of the time we don't have a problem, it's adopted. From that point on, when it is adopted, the Treasury's requirement to cover this loss of income is definitely in place. To date, through our programming, we have been trying as hard as possible in a period of time to reduce it, because there is no double control, and not more than two years to cover this loss. So if the loss is documented by this particular dossier, we will be in touch with the producers and then we will be in this process. There is no other way to cover these producers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of making an announcement. I am aware that the President of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development of the Czech Republic, Mrs Halikova, accompanied by the Vice-President and the members of the Commission, are following the Chair of the Bureau. Mrs. Kalikova, I welcome you to the Greek Parliament. [[Applause]] Mrs. Iglesis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it is important to hear from you that there is concern of the Ministry of Rural Development for the compensation of producers. But, as you have mentioned, we must find a way of making these allowances come in a reasonable time. The experience of all of us from the PEAs is that they are a long delay and this, when it comes to farmers, can also mean their inability to invest in the crops of next year. We are therefore calling on the Ministry of Rural Development and also on the services of the ELGA to speed up the procedures, to take all the steps necessary to draw up and submit these files, so that they can be immediately approved. On the occasion of the catastrophe in Halkidiki and in neighbouring regions such as Thessaloniki, Pieria and Kilkis, however, the need to review the insurance regime of ELGA arises, and to take account of the impact of climate change on agricultural production. The international research and the study of the Bank of Greece on the effects of climate change in Greece is clear. Rural production is at risk due to the lack of drinking water, the smashing of crop seasons and the uncertainty about the type and time of establishment of these crops. In fact, the studies provide for scenarios to estimate the yields of maize in Thessaly from 20% to 55% and the production of durum wheat differs from 67% to 15%. In view of this, the ELGA should be adapted, as you said, and it should support the rural world. I should like to mention another example of disaster in my region, but that has not so far been the case, but has unfortunately not been the case, the possibility of producers being compensated, and it should also be ensured that the Ministry is also involved. The extreme conditions and the glacier of winter that passed completely hit the mountain olive groves of Great Panagia. But the destruction does not reach 30% of the prefecture to be compensated by ELGA, because, as you know, olive groves in Halkidiki are mainly plain and therefore have no problem. However, the mountainous rural economy of the county has been critically affected, without farmers having received any compensation, or any commitment to the possibility of compensation, which makes them unable to afford. However, on the subject of cereals, I must stress that the cereal sector is very important in the country's trade balance. The wheat is in the second place cereals with the highest production, consumption and marketing in the world today. If we want to support actual production, we need to find a way to get the state on the ground next to the farmer, to advise and guide him at every farming step so that our producers' survival is not based on compensation, but on the production of high-value products.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u19	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u20	I will agree with you on the effects of climate change, but we must monitor things from our side. Already within the Mediterranean market for cereals, we are collecting data to see what these effects are, because we really need to have an opinion on the impact on production, and also on durum wheat. I have to tell you that the prices for durum wheat in 2016 ranged from EUR 150 to EUR 260 per tonne, while for 2017 they range from EUR 185 to EUR 250 per tonne. The cultivation of durum wheat and the cultivation of protein-industrial products is something we are seeking, therefore, under Regulation 1307/13 on aid, we have foreseen that there should be aid linked to these products because of their importance, both in support of livestock production and, more generally, in support of their importance at local and national level. These measures, therefore, have already started to apply from 2017 and have a horizon by 2020. In particular, for the cultivation of durum wheat the sum of the annual budgets of 2017-2020 will exceed EUR 46 million, while for the cultivation of protein-creams the equivalent sum will exceed EUR 27 million, because we particularly want to have corresponding feed, since it is known that the cost of production, especially of feed for livestock, is a major problem that we absolutely must address.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u21	Thank you. We move on to the third with number 935/6-2017 in the first cycle of the MP Iraklio of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the compensation of vineyards, oil producers and other producers for the damage they have suffered. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I will also address you today with my timely question on the issue of assessments and compensation for damages suffered by producers, winegrowers, olive growers and other producers, but which are provided for in the Rules of Procedure and therefore, we do not need to analyse the more general issue of climate change and the update, which needs to be updated and, indeed, permanent, I would say, of the ELGA Regulation, in order to include all the risks for farmers. I mean, on May 27, we had intense quartzing and snow water. The proverb says 'May is not raining every day'. But here we were quartzed, and this caused enormous damage to the vineyards, olives and other crops. What happened on 27 May was repeated on 4 June last in most of the Heraklion Prefecture wine-growing regions. What we want to know is whether there has been concern on the part of the Ministry, the administration of the ELGA, in order to record the damage, for the right to declare the damage from those who suffered the damage. Not to have massive declarations, of course, but not to cut the right. I say this in advance, because there is an issue about the possibility of claiming damage. We also want to know whether this is planned, that is to say, to follow the assessment and, of course, to launch compensation. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u23	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u24	Mr President, I think that you, too, agree that the damage is too much. In Crete, and especially in the Heraklion Regional Unit, only those that we had since 25 May, which have been involved in quartzing, you realise that we are now in front of natural phenomena, which are very intense and very often. So the quartzfall we had on 25 May caused damage. Damaged by hailstorming and on June 4th, as well as damage to the area of Sitia and Lassithi by wind turbine, quartzing, on May 25, 2017 on olives, horticulture, etc. For all these damages, the necessary labels were made, announcements were made and statements are made. The work of assessments will begin after 15 days have elapsed for the submission of declarations. The findings will then be communicated and the compensation will be paid. In any case, however, it takes a year, because there are procedures which we cannot avoid, not only those relating to personalization in the assessments, but also in the drafting of the findings, which should definitely be linked to the elements of the OSCE. So, as so far, at least in the last year, we have around six to seven months, one year, from the statement to the payment of the compensation, since it is, of course, covered by the ELGA, we are committed in this direction to move forward in this particular case. Now, with regard to the damage, which is not covered, we have talked about it before. The process of drawing up the relevant dossier for their integration into the EPAs is a process which is certainly more time-consuming and, of course, requires the approval of the European Commission and the coverage specifically of the Ministry of Finance. In this direction, we will move on to these specific cases.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u25	Please, Mr Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u26	Minister, quartzing and sound production at any stage of ELGA, it's not PSA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u27	I said for those who don't have insurance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u28	So this has to be cleared up, because it is possible for regional authorities to take as their direction that you are pushing to the MAGPs what you can, so that there is less cost to ELGA. No, that's not fair, it's neither right nor legal. Indeed, the damage caused by quarantine damage, the damage you mentioned, and you have already identified the services and for which the label has been labelled and the right to applications has been granted, if they fall under the Rules of Procedure, to have an ELGA procedure rather than an EPA procedure. I think you agree with that. As you are going to answer, I think beforehand that you will agree with this, and I would also like this to be a briefing to the Services. There is, of course, the last date of weather. Of course, no one can guarantee that there will be no more such phenomena in June. The dates for the right to a declaration should be renewed, on the basis of 4 June, that is to say on Sunday when we had new severe weather phenomena. I think that this will not be the case again if we respect what you have said. But if there are any known interpretations, diffusions or others, which lead to the vague future of the MAGPs compensation for producers, I think we will discuss this again here. I remind you that, as you have said, it is a long time. The 2011 compensation was paid in 2014 and 2015, of course, again from national resources. Because they think or may think that the European Union's approval is European money. No, it's again from national resources, but it's after three, four years old. So the producer can't grow when his production is destroyed. There's no income and he can't grow. That's the huge problem. That's where he wants the help. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u29	You have the floor again, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u30	Mr Colleagues, I think I was clear about the case of the coverage of the ELGA and, of course, about the case of the PES. Recognise that in these critical times, and indeed in the weather that causes us enormous damage, we are responding to a level where the payment time covered by the ELGA compensation, from the twelve and thirteen months it has gone down to six and seven, and the payment time, in respect of state aid - for this is - through the ESAs, and there with the help of the European Commission, which is no longer asking for a second check, and it has already been reduced. This, of course, you realise that it wants a great deal of effort. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u31	Thank you. New Democracy MEP Mr Ioannis Plackotakis, with his request to the President of Parliament, seeks a two-day absence for personal reasons in order to go abroad. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u32	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, I also know that the Secretary-General of the Government, Mr Kaloger, informs us that ten questions will not be discussed. The second question under number 938/6-2017 of the New Democracy MP, Andreas Katsanotis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject of ‘an urgent need for integrated management policies in the fight against mosquitos by the State’, will not be discussed due to the lack of competence of the Ministry. Also, the second one under number 937/6-2017, first-round question by MP Kilkis of the New Democracy, George Georgios Georgios Georgios, to the Minister for Administrative Reconstruction, on the restriction of recruitment to all bodies and legal persons of the central administration, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister responsible for a workload and will be redefined for discussion. The fifth question under number 944/6-2017 of the first cycle of the Parliamentary Achaias Party of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the problems of workers in the factory industry "FRIGOGLASS ABEU" in the Netherlands Achaia, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister responsible for a workload and will be redefined for discussion. The sixth question under number 928/2-6-2017, first question by MP 2, Piraeus, of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of the Interior, concerning the uncontrolled action of hooded anarchists, will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Deputy Minister Mr. Toska due to unregulated obligations. The seventh question under number 930/2-6-2017 is the first-round question of the Z Vice-President of the Parliament and of the Athens MP Mr. Spyridon Lykoudi to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject, "in a bad state the Mars Field", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister, Mr. Skourletis. The fourth under number 945/6-2017 a topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject of “direct re-introduction of dismissal of dismissal staff in Heraklion Crete”, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister on grounds of misappropriation of obligations. The sixth question, under number 946-6-2017, is the second question of the Athens MP of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis, with regard to the "Help at Home" workers and the conversion of their contracts into an indefinite period of time. It will not be discussed because of the impediment of the Minister on the grounds of misguided obligations. The third, with number 922-1-6-2017, a topical question for the second-cycle Parliamentary 2 Athens of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Helen Zaroulias to the Foreign Minister, on the subject "the world bank "characterizes" the Aegean in Turkey", will not be discussed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u33	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u34	Here, Mrs Zaroulia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr President. It is a long time to avoid coming to answer questions from the Golden Dawn. Here, the question arises whether the government of SYRIZA is a government of all Greeks or only Greeks who voted for it if they are democratic or foreign trustees. Because it is not possible to ask questions and do not come to answer them. Last time, the competent minister of the question was in the Chamber, and so I wish he did not answer. Do you find this democratic? I will reply to you: it is not democratic at all. I have asked too many questions. Does SYRIZA perform foreign interests and is not the government of the Greeks? The Greeks voted for him to tear the memoirs. He didn't. We are not answered by their ministers because they say that the Golden Dawn is indicted. Of course, they cannot replace justice. It is also a hypothetical case that Mrs Catherineari has raised a matter of infidelity, and she has appointed a CEO to the supervising office that sells public property and is not answering me. Listen to see, the constitutional order stipulates that your Ministers are obliged to respond to the parliamentary parties. One of these parliamentary parties, whether you like it or not you like it, is Golden Dawn, which must be treated equally, like other parties. We conclude that SYRIZA with lies has defied the Greek people's vote. It governs a clique for the purpose of relinquishment, which, as we see, is progressing with the change of history books and the appalling falsification of Greek history. They're baking the new Greeks. It becomes a criminal propaganda even to primary school children. And of course they are dealing with the various NGOs, because I have asked which Members or relatives of the first grade have not been able to answer them. Is this ultimately the role of the SYRIZA Government and should the Greek people see in the next elections not to vote again SYRIZA, but to vote for a party that will be cut off for the rights of the Greeks? We had another case in Trikala, where the mayor had previously been found guilty, and now at the Court of Appeal in Larissa he was acquitted, because a Nigerian small seller was selling a smuggling commodity, and they gave it back to him. However, we did not see the same sensitivity that Greek politicians or regional mayors, mayors, for couldzis in Thessaloniki or for brown. They too are being taxed savagely, and here we see that there is a racism against the Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u36	The reason why Mr Ammanatidis did not come to answer the question is the misguided obligations. Other ministers report the same reason. Of course, the Bureau represents the whole House and does not represent the government, Mrs Zarulia. So there is no question in the Bureau, because the government is answering the honourable Members and not the Bureau, and it must of course be answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u37	When the government's not answering?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u38	I said that the Bureau is not answering on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u39	We ask the Bureau what happens when a Minister does not respond repeatedly.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u40	What you are asking me to do is pass it on to the Conference of Presidents and, of course, the Government is being informed. That is the procedure. The fifth question under number 932-6-2017, the second question of the Athens MP Mr.George Amyras, the Minister of Culture and Sport, concerning the hours of museums and archaeological sites during the summer season, will not be discussed due to a workload. Also, the third question by No 2883/25-1-2017 question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the immediate implementation of the MAH on financial assistance to HEIs and the insured of the State will not be discussed due to a planned medical examination by the Minister of Lady Fotio. I must inform the House that a decision has been taken by the Conference of Presidents that the Ministries know what day they are invited to reply to the House. It's not like it was until now. Consequently, the Ministry cannot easily say that there is a workload or anything else, because it knows that on Monday, Tuesday or Wednesday it has an obligation to answer Members' questions. This is the last decision of the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u41	Mr President, I would like to ask a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u42	Please, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u43	The Minister is obviously quite justified on the matter of her absence because of medical examinations. What I would like to ask is whether he will come, because we have a debate immediately after the questions, on the proposal for a law, on which the Minister is responsible. So will he be present in about 20 minutes when the proposal for a law will begin? That's my question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u44	I officially don't know that, but I've been informed it will be.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u45	The tests will be complete, obviously. The second thing I would like to point out is that there has been a change. The Ministries have declared a specific day in which they respond and are here, or Minister, or Deputy or State Secretary, in order to facilitate their work. The justification for 'workload' should therefore be returned to the general. There is no longer any excuse for that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u46	That's what I said, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u47	The first time, however, I think that it was written like this. That is no longer the case with the new amendment of the Rules of Procedure. Other reasons, of course, lacking abroad, medical and others, and other hindrances are human. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u48	We are now officially informed by the Secretary-General of the Government that Mrs Fotou will be here. And we move to the fourth question under number 921/1-6/2017 in the first cycle of the Member of Parliament I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Kouziou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on "the main pension for Greek seafarers". The State Secretary for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity will answer Mr. Petropoulos. Mr. Kouzeli, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u49	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, at the beginning of January, you and the Minister of Shipping, Mr. Kourublis, were committed to the insurance and pension of Greek seafarers. You personally stated that the specific characteristics of the maritime profession would be taken into account. In previous topical questions we have asked on a similar subject, you said that you are looking at it, you will see etc. But it's been a year since you've been looking at it and we're still out of it. The concern then was also a statement by Mr Katrugalos who, as Minister of State, said that what was true for all the insured persons would also apply to Greek seafarers and there would be no factor of increase in the maritime service for the various categories of ships. You then said that 'we are trying to get the rate'. Minister, I would like to ask you what the limits for pension entitlement are and what will be the main pension for the twenty-year sea service for officers, officers and crews. We would also like you to tell us if you can make a statement at the moment about NAT's real estate and widow's pensions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u50	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr President. I shall reply to the honourable Member's question, not the extensions he gives, of course. It would be appropriate not to discuss each other so much on a subject to which I have answered many times. I have said that with regard to widow's pensions, the government is considering measures for problems that arise in such a way that we seem to be intervening and making changes. I shall therefore say, for seafarers, that we have a very good cooperation with both IMO, PEMEN, STEFENS, all seafarers and all associations. At the Ministry of Shipping along with the Minister responsible, Mr Kurubli, I have seen that this is a very complicated matter. Those who really know what navy work means know that it is extremely complex how to calculate pensions for seafarers under the conditions in force in the Single Social Security Agency. The framework for our own implementation circulars in the case of the retirement of seafarers has as a limit the age for retirement, which will also be respected. We can't retire the navy at the age of sixty-seven. The seaman is on board several times sixty-five days a year, so we will not count the pension by denominator in 365, which would normally be based on three hundred sixty-five days. According to NAT's law, it was three hundred and fifty days. The pension of seafarers will therefore be calculated by denominator in 300, as is the case in IKA, to have an improved pension in relation to the opening of the great denominator. However, this is all difficult to process. We are in communication and constant cooperation with the institutions. We have reached a very good level, which is not complete to announce the application circular yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u52	Thank you very much. Mr Kouzilos has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u53	Minister, I will disprove you on one thing. You said that for widow's pensions you can't commit. You have said that orally in various circles. Second, you said you couldn't commit NAT's real estate. Thirdly and more fundamentally, what will be the days to be calculated, three hundred sixty-five or three hundred fifty? These are basic questions. There is another thing that needs to be clarified at the moment: Is there going to be the rate you said, namely, for tankers 1,3, for boats 1,2, next to the pension? You are also committed to this in time. Otherwise, if we go to the Katorugalou billboard, the current pensions will fall, which, if you remember correctly, I told you before that at the moment it is relevant and there will be a very serious problem along the way. If various adjustments are made and a pension falls down, what happens? Are you going to retroactively ask them for the money? Can you clarify that? The last strike, if you remember well, took place on two main problems: tax and insurance. From December 2016 until now, in mid-2017, we have been talking about this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u54	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u55	All rules for the synthetic service of seafarers shall be taken into account. Synthetic service means that the calendar duty time on board is not taken as an insurance period, but that increased by coefficients of time, because the stay on board does not mean eight hours for the seaman, it means 24 hours. There are old rules and they will be observed for the calculation of retirement time and retirement age. We don't raise the limits. We are observing the rules in force. But to issue pensions in a way that does not lead to irrationalities - we have already come to an end and the seafarers know that seafarers' pensions are actually improving - we have to look at the rates. It's a complicated matter. We have no reason to delay, which is why we are making progress in the adoption of temporary pensions very soon. We have sent five or six employees - if I am not mistaken - to work at NATA for the short version of temporary pensions so that there are no serious delays until they are completed and always in cooperation with employees in shipping - because we are discussing the details. We have a very good one, and I consider it to be an understanding debate and an attempt to achieve the best result. NAT's property is everyone's property, as is the property of the rest. In order to serve better the aims of social security, all the property of all the actors is managed uniformly to be more efficient and profitable. All those years after that, we saw the results on the use of NAT's property. Danced are the buildings in many areas. In Patisia, the famous Amalia Villa is so many years abandoned and under conditions of almost collapse. We'll improve the situation there. But let me not go into details. The Penteli hospital, too, is not that it has only pulled snakes - it makes sense for Penteli to have snakes - but it has been left at the plundering disposal of many, abandoned as well. Now we've kept it, cleaned it, broke it. We'll do our job right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u56	Thank you. We continue with our second question under number 3025/31-1-2017 of the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the new pension cuts for pensioners and not on farms. The question was not answered as a written question and it was made timely. Mrs Christophilopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, Mr President, on 31 January almost all the Members of the Democratic Independence addressed this written question. He hadn't answered. Prior to me, the honourable Member, Mr Kegeroglu, exercised this right of oral debate and answered the Minister. Since, however, this issue has other specific aspects which have not been resolved, I am coming back today, Minister, and I would ask you to clarify a number of issues relating to pensioners, whether farmers or non-farmers, who are subject to the rules of the law of 2016, Mr.4387 so-called Katrugalou, who, in relation to the former regime, has the difference that 60% of the pension being cut, when one acquires another activity, is not only a job, as was the pre-eminent status, but also a property or activity that falls under ECA insurance. And because, Minister, in the circular you have taken since the debate with Mr Kegerolgos, you have taken a step, I would say, in the positive direction for retired people, but it is not complete, I ask you this. A pensioner who is not a farmer and is subject to another fund that has joined the ECA will benefit from the favourable regulation that you have brought with the circular not to apply the cut until 2025, or is this only to former farmers who were retired at the time by the ECA today? Secondly, to make it clear how much this is about farmers who have retired before 2016. Because I think that by reading the circular, no one concludes this, but I would like to assure you that this is true, because we have many calls. And finally, Minister, if you want to answer me one that is consistent. It is not for agricultural activities, but it has come to our attention that there are pensioners who, because their pensions have been cut, are going and doing a course of three - four hours a month, shoulders. So you can't cut 60% of the pension because three hours a month a pensioner can raise his income. I would like an initial answer to that too. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u58	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. It is indeed of great interest to many of the fellow citizens of any category of insured persons, on the issues raised by Mrs Christophilopoulou. I understand the question again. It is good to clarify things that may not have been understood. I have indeed answered, if I am not mistaken, four times to Mr Kegeroglu on the same subject. It is not unnecessary to discuss it. I may have to re-issue another more detailed circular. I can't rule it out. I'll probably do it. Let me tell you for sure. Let me not guess. I'll do it. I will do so because I understand that these are difficult issues and we need to explain them better. Those who retired up to 12-5-2016 and have rural land or fodder or what they have - generally have agricultural land, have no livestock activity, because the farmer is there from morning till night, the field will have, a farm will have - they have no cut in pension because they will have income from agricultural farming. And of course, they will have no contribution to this production. Those who were retired before, I repeat, on May 12, 2016 by any body. All farmers who retire until 31/12-2024 will also not have any reduction in pensions or income contributions from this activity. From other funds insurers who will be retired from 13-5-2016 onwards, will have the obligation to pay contributions and have a reduction in pension if they have income. This will be clarified with even greater clarity. And how does that work? If it is from rent - which is much simpler and right, I think - it is a result of income from rented agricultural land or agricultural land. And this is happening in the countryside. In other words, there are cases where one rents his property in different ways and takes, either on fruit or in amounts, the price of rent or no income, because he had losses. Even if it receives a subsidy, in this case we will not have the provisions on the payment of contributions or a reduction in pensions. This is our whole place in this matter. And obviously, I'm going to need to get one last circular - I guess I don't need another one - explaining more in detail and going on with it, Mrs. Christophilopoulou. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u60	Please, Mrs Christophilopoulou, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you have answered for the farmers. But for others, I think it may be a little unfair for the pensioners of the other funds. And I am not referring to the one who has too many fields - and how many of them - but to a pensioner - say - of the public or a bank or a private former hirer who has a few acres of land and grows them. If he has a minimum income of them, he won't grow them, Minister. So the cultivation of the land we need will be lost. Why? Because he will of course prefer to get even this short-lived pension, rather than cut him 60% and get a very poor income otherwise. However, since most of the children and pensioners are either students or are looking for work, it is not easy - even in Attica - to be able to spend time on earth too, I think you should see the subject again - and I say it about other pensioners - to see it in a favourable way, especially if income is not particularly high. I know it's complicated, but it's worth it. And since I have half a minute left, Minister, today there is a front page on "Kathimerini" which says: "During the pensions." And because we have heard that there is going to be a new bill with new measures in addition, I would like you to inform us: Is there any chance we have further ice? For, I would remind you, Mr President, that the Katrugalou law was putting ice on pensions by 2018, if I am not mistaken. We took the fourth memorial to 2021. Will there be a new package, Minister, where will it go in 2022? I would ask you very much to clarify this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u62	Please, Minister, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u63	I intend to follow the order and the relevant provisions will be put to the debate, as will be the case - because they have not yet been put - on whether there will be any legislative initiative and on what extent. We will all see this from the introduction of this provision before the House. With regard to other issues, Mr Christophilopoulou, I replied that other pensioners from May 13, 2016 will also be retired if they do not receive income. You know there are many incomes - very large - from the agricultural land. There are lawyers I've known doctors with huge areas. Hey, it can't be!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u64	For the others with limited income, I say, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u65	I see, you said limited. When it's for his home, it's not an income. It shall not be displayed in ‘E1’. I mean, the small farmer, who doesn't trade, has no income from it, does not show income. In practice, that is to say, we will see that there is no question of it, because it will not show an income from the oil for the house and five - six friends. My father did that. He never showed any income from that reason. Moreover, expenditure is the relative crop that the farm will have if it has any worker or the farmhouses it uses. That's expenditure and there's going to be expenditure, it won't have any revenue. Therefore, it will not be possible to create a problem for the small farmer who has his father's field to reduce the pension. It would be unhealthy, and that wouldn't happen. We will regulate the relevant issues and you will see that it will not be a problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, too. We move on to the debate on the first under number 4924/74-2017 question by Evia MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Georgios Excellency to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the certificate of professional competence for drivers and escorts of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. The Deputy Minister, Mr. Chironis, will answer. Please, Mr. Excellency, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the obligation of the Ministry of Rural Development to issue a certificate of professional competence for drivers and escorts to vehicles carrying productive animals is provided for by the 2009 Ministry of Rural Development and the Ministry of Finance, and the procedure provides for the provision of training by courses and written examinations to the participants so that they are finally issued with a certificate of professional competence. We have learned from the services that this process has been going on since 2013. It was done, from what we saw at the beginning of April of the year 2017, with forty candidates, for whom we learned that not everyone has come. Meanwhile, some four hundred applications have accumulated over the years, seeking to obtain this certificate. I would like to ask you how the Ministry intends to strengthen the relevant section of the Ministry so that, on the one hand, the volume of accumulated applications and, on the other hand, the subsequent applications for certification can be examined in a reasonable time and, on the other hand, if the Ministry is investigating the possibility of an annual schedule of regular seminars and examinations so that the interested parties can have a clear picture of the timing of their application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u68	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr President. It really raises an issue which is a bit of a limited interest. It is a very important issue, because you know that transporting live animals is a matter that also relates to well-being, with our morality to these living organisms. Animals have a soul, they have fear, but also, as the farmers themselves say, transport, if transport is bad and behaviour is bad, it also creates serious problems in the quality of meat. In particular, our bio-farmers tell us that "what to do with me to make a huge effort to be the animal in good condition all his life and ultimately to be in bad condition when he arrives at the slaughterhouse". In fact, for these seminars there was the 2009 directive, it was incorporated with the CSM, as you are saying quite rightly. Since 2012, as the agency says - in 2013, as you said - these seminars have stopped. It is a pathogen, a proof of the dissolution of the state and how this dissolution of the state ultimately has a direct impact on the real economy. We have received this situation, a service broken down. It has very great priorities, as you know. Nevertheless, in 2016 we started the seminars. In particular, I mention the dates for the interested and interested parties to hear it: We did in Athens 4-6 April 2016, in Heraklion Crete 17-29 May 2016, in Thessaloniki 5-7 July 2016, in Trikala 13-15 March 2017 and 4-6 April 2017. Two other seminars are in progress in 2017. We've already trained a hundred and sixty people out of these loose ends, and there's another four hundred twenty. In other words, we have entered a rhythm. We don't triumph, we're not happy, we just got at a pace. I believe, as I shall say in my speech, that this will be intensified. Let me give another important piece of information: these seminars in Greece are free of charge. It's vocational training free of charge. As far as my service is concerned, I should like to say that in other European Union countries, seminars cost up to EUR 800, because they are vocational training. It is a professional skill important, which is of financial interest. And we could also wonderfully discuss - I am not a friend of this practice - why a committee has been set up, which I have already called on in my office to discuss, whether a symbolic price - not, of course, the number I mentioned, I mentioned it as an example of free vocational education in Greece as compared to the EUR 800 in other countries - could strengthen our budget, which is too pitiful for these issues, as you know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u70	Thank you very much. Your Honor, you have the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I would like to say that, with the question we have tabled, we are talking about production units in the primary sector, which need to be strengthened and lawful in the process. In this sense, we would like to see the perspective. The second question I have put is whether there is a programming that will know that this year or next year will pass the man or people in their businesses from this process, so that they are lawful to practice their profession. One of the serious issues that led us to ask this question is the issue of citizens' health, as you have rightly raised it, which is guaranteed through people who know how to transport live animals so that they can reach the citizens healthy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u72	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr President. As I told you, in my second speech, I'm going to be a little more specific. At the moment, what we have before us is four hundred people from the overcompensation that has been created. It was about five hundred sixty. We've already trained a hundred and sixty, and there's another four hundred left. And we want to speed up. In this sense, I would like to inform you that, in order to solve the problem it was a chronic problem, a working group was set up last year, which, as I said, was called on to my office and which deals with issues which do not only concern the additional measures to be taken to strengthen these training and accelerate them, but we have other issues, such as welfare, etc. In other words, we are also entering the essence of this programme and of the examination. From there on, see money, the crucial issue is how this acceleration will be financed. In contact with me, and with the written answer - which has not been a timely question, because the services had answered you - they did not have the information, but I now convey it to the House: from ELGO - DIMITRA, we have secured that fund from the AEA, which will strengthen these seminars so that they can be accelerated and conducted. We have solved, in other words basically, the economic problem, just to say it, which I think was the major problem. At the moment, with the economic problem solved by the PAA, the seminars will be accelerated. I believe that the situation will be normalised. And if not in this year, at least until the next year, the problem will have been nullified from the delay I mentioned, that no seminars were held from 2013 until 2016. And we started them. So this issue is heading towards its solution too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, twenty-one students and students and an educational attendant from the 13th Aigaleo Municipal School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, we will have a short break, in the hope that the tables, which have a problem and will then proceed to legislative work, will be corrected.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate on the principle, articles and all of the proposal for a law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity "Guaranteed social income - strengthening social protection and integration". This proposal falls within the scope of Article 73(3) of the Constitution. According to this article, a proposal for a law is not introduced for discussion since it involves, to the detriment of the public, the local government or other legal entities governed by public law, expenditure or a reduction in income or property for the benefit of a person. The practice that has been followed over these years is to discuss these proposals without going into the voting process. The introduction of the proposals is because, with the debate in this House, the parties, the Members of Parliament and the government are able to take a stand on serious issues to which they refer and which attempt to regulate the legislative proposals, as this proposal does. We are starting with the rapporteur for the Democratic Alliance, Mrs Christophilopoulou, who will have the floor for fifteen minutes. Mrs Christophilopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I come to the point, which is the proposal for a Law of the Democratic Incorporation on the minimum guaranteed income or social income of solidarity and other social policy provisions, I should like to take this opportunity to ask the Deputy Minister for Labour to raise two issues which concern us all these days and relate to the responsibility of the Ministry. The first, Minister, concerns the unemployed. We have heard yesterday that a beneficiary of the unemployment benefit if he works three days will not be entitled to the unemployment benefit from the OAS. We believe that this is extremely unfair and that you should see it again, because I believe that the unemployed are entitled to an additional income. I am not talking about having a complete job. Of course, then the allowance will be cut. But in this case it is an injustice that I think needs to be corrected. Secondly, Minister, because your colleague, Deputy Minister Petersburg, did not have the kindness to answer me and because today there are headlines - I have the 'KATHMERINA' here, for example, which says that there will be a 'role' period in pensions and that the measures which will be taken in a few days will also concern this issue - please when you take the floor, let the House know when these new measures will come. Are we really going to have a frost beyond 2018 defined by the Katorugalou Law? The fourth Memorandum you voted on the day before yesterday and extended the "fresh" until 2021. Is the pension freeze going to 2022? When's it going? Because I remember Mr. Katrugalo from Stepping in the House that he told us that his law will bring increases in pensions. Here we go from ice to ice and from cut to cut. I think the House should know. I now enter into the motion for a law of the Democratic Reconciliation and will deal for one or two minutes with a question of parliamentary order. This proposal, ladies and gentlemen, was tabled at the beginning of February 2016. It was then intended to speed up the process of applying the minimum guaranteed income or, as it was renamed,'social income of solidarity'. It is being discussed today, almost a year and a half later. So Parliament gave it a breath to the government and with the pressures of the troika, because it is clear that the government did not want it. For many months he did nothing at all. We said if you wanted another pilot, let's do another pilot, bring the changes. No, you legislated to "bake it." So, Minister, afterward, our proposal has been applied on the minimum guaranteed income side, but we note that for our fellow citizens those who are beneficiaries of the allowance and who do not have a private residence - because there are some houses that have left them or at least there are people who have a roof and do not pay rent - we say they can be linked to a rental subsidy of up to EUR 70 a month. Look at this and answer us. And since we now have this debate in plenary today, we would like to know how many beneficiaries are again, Minister, how many people are served today and get the social solidarity benefit and how this application, at last, will be a good thing but not ever, which the people say - is being implemented. I come to another article of the law that we have tabled today for discussion, which refers to the protection of the first residence of those under the PASOK Act, 2010, for the overhead households - which concerns any change in the person of the lender - and the proposal that this change should not change the status of first home protection. Because you know, ladies and gentlemen, especially after the system of electronic auctions in the fourth memorandum and given the long strike of lawyers and notaries, that there is a large number of auctions that will take place. So you understand that from 'no house in the hands of a banker' we will go to 'no house in the hands of a owner'. That's where we're going. We are therefore proposing this regulation so that we can protect the first place as much as possible. And now I come to the next article, which is Article 4, which concerns something that we in Democratic Incorporation have repeatedly put it and have tabled an amendment to relevant bills and two things: The first is the irresponsible account to go up to 1,500 euros. Ladies and gentlemen, in the Committee on Social Affairs, where our proposal was being discussed, there was a positive response from the Ministry of Finance - Mrs Papanatsiou was there and said: 'to see the budget, to see'. But that's a fair measure. It does not have such a heavy budgetary burden, we appreciate it, and it can rise to that. In addition, it is very important that social benefits be inconsistent. And yes, Minister - and I would like you to confirm that - the information tells us that it does not confiscate the social solidarity benefit, but instead they say that family benefits are confiscated and even summoned. This provision we are bringing will protect from these seizures that we consider to be extremely unfair. I am here intervening, ladies and gentlemen, before entering Article 5 on Civil Service Centres, the wonderful JEPs, to say that the proposal for a law and the very income of solidarity, as Mr Kegeroglu had first implemented in the previous government, has the philosophy of an integrated approach. And here I think that as a Parliament we should agree that the person receiving this allowance may also have other services and that his access to work or training should be facilitated, that is, his integration into work, with the various programmes and opportunities that exist in terms of OAED and not just. But, of course, on the other hand, this fellow citizen is also a beneficiary of other social services, support services. So we see the social solidarity benefit fully as the protection of people who need it. But there must also be structures at the lowest possible level, that is, there near the citizen and every municipality. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we as a Democratic Integration voted and we support social support centres, as recommended by the Ministry of Labour in this respect, because we consider that within the social services of the municipalities and at the lower level it is important to serve. And I want the Minister to tell us how far this activity is going. However, because we believe that JEPs as a very important reform that needs to be increased, further and more talking about centres for citizens' integrated services on all issues, and in the JEPs, therefore, there should be a possibility not only for the JEPs, as well as for other social services, for all the social services that our fellow citizens deserve. I insist that we do not see them in contrast to partnerships at local level or with community centres. We see them as complementary and, as a slowly addiction, all our fellow citizens and socially sensitive people are served by the same services as those who do not have a particular problem, whether income or other problems. Of course, there is the self-sufficiency of the CEECs, which, with the previous government of your current Member and former Minister of State, Mr Bollaris, had made this intervention. Mr. Blonde came to the committee and told us that he would incorporate the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We believe that support for people with disabilities is not only a matter of health, but also of social support, labour integration, and even for people with mental disabilities. We insist on our suggestion that CYKEMA should indeed leave the hospitals. I think that the committee too has had a rich debate and we have all come to the conclusion that we do not need to have the CEECs in some hospitals interconnected, because they ultimately do not serve anyone and are deceived as an institution. We therefore consider and insist, Minister, that you should rethink the issue, because at the heart of our thoughts it is that disability is not a problem, it is a situation which is not just about health or, above all, about health. So not in health regions, but in connection with the Welfare Services of your Ministry. So I come now to the amendment that we tabled, because after so much time we have had the opportunity to look closely at the problems of people with mental disabilities, not only but especially those with mental disabilities, who have to live protected until the end of their lives. You know very well how parents and their own people are anxious about what will happen in the event of an accident, a death that these people will be left and how we can make life easier. There are several such support centres and shelters of supported living in Greece, there is daily care, there are houses, you know it very well. I come to our speech which I think should be welcomed by all the parties in this House: The first is an issue that I fear, Minister, that it does not need legislative but government intervention. Already since 2013, the previous law and the ministerial decision that I have before me - it is Ministerial Decision 11221/2013 - has been saying that people with mental discomfort and with many other diseases that are not cured do not have to go through a second and third time by CEPOL. We have complaints, I say again, Minister, that many people are being asked today, not everything, but in many cases, to pass two and three times by the CSR. We do not know why this is happening, but it is very important that this should not happen, because it concerns both individuals and their families and how difficult it is to go twice and three times. I now come to the very roofs where we propose that clawback and rebate do not apply. We think that's fair. And I have to tell you that I am being informed that today that clawback and rebate are being applied by the money that EEAY pays every month, the whole month is leaving as clawback. She's leaving a month and doesn't go to the roofs. They lose 12 months a month of funding. That's very serious. And I think you should examine it with the Minister for Health who had come to the committee and committed himself to seeing it. The same thing was stated by Mrs Papanatsiou, that she would see another important issue concerning the products produced by these laboratories. They are products which are either edible or weaving. There are too many things to do, and most of the time, people who live on protected roofs. So there we consider it to be social law and even possible, at least to go to reduced VAT. We have not proposed the abolition of VAT because we believe that this would be a goal that we can achieve there, but at least let us go to the reduced VAT on these products. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I want one or two minutes of your tolerance. I'll finish very soon. I would also like to point out that the disability allowance, which people who live in protected conditions, is now taken into account in the tax on the payment of the solidarity allowance. Will you tell me what income has a person living in a protected environment? However, he may have an income from a rent and also receive the disability allowance. Instead of having solidarity with these people, their disability benefit is now counted on to pay the same solidarity allowance. I think it's a shaped oxymomile, I think it's a contradiction, and I think we've had a positive approach to the committee from most of Parliament's wings, and we think that can apply and be abolished. In concluding and awaiting the responses from the Ministry, after the necessary parliamentary dialogue has been held, we would also like to point out that it would be good for the social surplus produced by the government in 2016 and that, on the basis of Memorandum 3, there are almost 2 billion -1.9 for the accuracy - which can be made available to social services, we want to bring back the issue of the financing of day-care stations, financing and strengthening employment policies and, of course, the reduction of VAT rates in primary production and the focus on the use of this social surplus, which has not been exploited. Because, as you know, ladies and gentlemen, the wonderful countermeasures are 'lived, May', without knowing whether the conditions can be met so that they can be implemented. With these considerations, we in the Democratic Integration think that if there is a serious and substantial dialogue, as it has been in the committee, we hope that the measures that we are proposing for disabled people and for our fellow citizens who have a great need for social support in full and essential terms will be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theories, after taking part in the educational programme "Workery Democracy" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-one students and two educational attendants from the 16th Amarousi Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] SYRIZA's rapporteur, Mr Athanasios Papadopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate in the Standing Committees on Social and Economic Affairs has shown that the proposal for a law, presented on February 2, 2016, the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR is essentially overdue, after the legalisation of the social income of solidarity and the national coordination mechanism for monitoring the evaluation of social inclusion and cohesion policies. But it enables us to discuss what it was and what the social state in Greece today is, welfare, general social protection in the difficult conditions for the country and for the lives of the people. It enables us to investigate the concrete elements of the social actions of the current government, as their recent question by representatives of the opposition parties at the relevant conference organized by the Municipality of Athens the other day. To discuss, furthermore, the whole of the interventions we must take, in cooperation with the Government, in order to redesign and upgrade the social state in Greece of the new historic period. The proposal was analysed by Mrs Christophilopoulou with great competence. Let us remember that the application of the minimum guaranteed income, although it was a Memorandumary obligation, has not been implemented for four years. The pilot project started on 15-11-2014 in thirteen municipalities, with unambiguous criteria. It was based on income criteria that were not up-to-date, which did not identify current poverty, in order to meet real needs once they are presented. As we have seen in the World Bank report, which we have, for the evaluation of the pilot project, various issues are highlighted, particularly the failure to implement the second and third pillars of the programme, namely access to goods and services and labour integration. Let us note that the minimum guaranteed income can be a revolutionary idea or a caging to integrate social protection into the logic of austerity, depending on the implementing rules. The central idea was that every person should be given a minimum income for basic living needs in such a way as to enable him to organise his or her life and work organisation as he wishes and at the same time not to discourage the intention of work. In Finland, for example, the two-year pilot project provides for a minimum social income of EUR 550, to be added to which the rental subsidy may also be added. In Switzerland, from the data I have seen, the minimum guaranteed income is slightly below the minimum basic salary, at around EUR 2.100, following the referendum they have held on its adoption. The pilot implementation in Greece and the overall proposal for a law of the Democratic Incorporation PASOK - DIMAMAR are compared with the actions currently planned in 2015, 2016, beginnings 2017, and government planning for social protection, the social state, with the 2017 budget, with the new NSRP, as well as those planned for the next years of the medium-term programme by 2021. In the actions to date we need to note what has been done to strengthen public structures and services to tackle the humanitarian crisis, extreme poverty, unemployment, homelessness, especially for vulnerable social groups, children, elderly people, people with disabilities, Roma, so that there are reformist interventions for their daily lives, for their access to services and goods, to join the new NSRP, programmes and actions that enable them not to degrade services, such as food and basic needs, social pharmacies, structures for homeless people, two-day and daily care centres for disabled people, elderly people's daily care centres, sheltered jobs, and, at the same time, to have no job lost, to have a design to support the National Welfare - Solidarity System. To remind you, first of all, of the introduction of immediate measures to deal with the humanitarian crisis. The programme provided small fixed allowances to poor families, the solidarity card was given with rent, free electricity and water to poor households and covered the four hundred and five thousand people. For the first time, a map of poverty has been created in order to draw up close actions. The prepaid solidarity card was the innovation of the project, had an excellent reception from the beneficiaries, 81 million euros were moved from food marketing shops. Secondly, social solidarity income started pilotally in thirty municipalities in July 2016 and, contrary to the application of the minimum guaranteed income, was documented with elements of population, unemployment rates, poverty rates, as emerged from the Human Crisis Management Programme and the CID. It continued with universal application from January 2017 to all municipalities of the country with budget entry EUR 760,000,000. It concerns all vulnerable social groups, living in extreme poverty or very low incomes, as well as unprotected children, who receive 100 euros a month. The beneficiaries of the CRL have also been asked before - from the evidence, Minister, I think it is a little more than 450,000.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u79	It's 515,000 today.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u80	We've reached the 515,000 today. The beneficiaries of the CRL shall know their exact date of payment. There is an electronic platform that is extremely friendly. They have access to and interconnected in supplementary benefits and services, such as free medical care, participation in social poverty structures, participation in the ETVA programme, free distribution of food, fruit, vegetables, child subsidisation at nurseries. 10% of the beneficiaries of the CRL are expected to join the labour market - and I already have more than 2,000 data - with OAED programmes and pilot employment programmes prepared or planned by the Ministry. A national mechanism for social inclusion and social cohesion has been set up, which will monitor the effectiveness of all social policies and, in particular, the service of citizens. Third, school lunches. The programme is facing the most outdated and harmful aspect of child poverty, malnutrition, as well as the school leak and reduced school performance particularly in poor children. In many municipalities in Attica the program has been implemented since the beginning of the school year to primary school pupils. Thessaloniki, Kavala, Perama, my hometown Trikala and other cities joined the school meal program. Initially it concerned 11 thousand children in fifty - four schools, and the design provided for the continuation of seventy - two thousand school meals. Fourth, community centers. It is planned to operate two hundred and fifty four youth centres in iso-numbered municipalities with 700 employees throughout the territory to be recruited under ASP procedures. The community centres will be the local contact and information units for social protection policies. They will welcome, serve and interconnect citizens with all social programmes and services implemented in their area of operation and will keep citizens in touch with all active employment policies in cooperation with the OAED and the General Secretariat for Lifelong Learning. Fifth, the free movement of unemployed in public transport. Sixth, the policy of homeless people we discussed with a sufficient degree and the invitation made to us by the Municipality of Athens. In May 2016, a joint Ministerial Decision of the Ministries of Labour, Health, Home Affairs was adopted setting out the minimum standards for structures for the provision of services to homeless. In the KYA was codified and extended the existing framework, hostels and open day centers, and specifications were added for sleeping rooms and supported apartments. The new institutional framework for the homeless is the basis for ensuring uniform standards, simplifying procedures for the services involved and ensuring the quality of the services provided. The CSM includes a standard operating regulation and an individual agreement in structures based on good practice of field actors. For the first time, bodies of L.4139/2013 are allowed to operate such structures. On the basis of the CSR, the invitations of the new NSRC to fund the structures for homeless, hypnotic and day-care centres were also designed. Twenty structures, ten sleeping rooms and ten day centres will work. Nine will be in Athens. The homeless also joined the CRL for income support and a gradual interconnection with the other benefits of the EIDA with the two other pillars. Already from the data provided are about three thousand benefiting homeless. The housing and reintegration programme continues for another year with funding from national resources of EUR 5.5 million, an evaluation and an integrated programme of supported apartments is expected. From the evidence we have obtained so far from the programme twenty-two thousand families in precariousness with about 46 million euros, I think, Minister. It is established at the Ministry of Labour, Social Policy Department, for administrative and operational support for long-term intervention. As of December 2016, the polarisation of the homeless in the streets and structures was integrated into five municipalities. The HRP shall establish information tools for recording and monitoring the homeless population, for supporting and coordinating the bodies providing permanent services to the homeless. Seventh, Special Secretariat for Social Integration of Roma with mapping of settlements and living conditions, relocation programs and multicentre creation, including a space for children's hospitality, advisory center, sanitary facilities and a small medical facility. Employment and training programmes will also lead to the certification of professions. The vast majority of the Roma have already been economically strengthened through the CRL. Eighth, abolishing the CSR paradox to the uninsured. Ninth, protection of unaccompanied minor refugees through expansion and creation of new accommodation and care facilities. Tenth, under Law 4025/2014, KAFKA or CYMEA were renamed to physical and medical rehabilitation centers and joined, as Mrs Christophilopoulou analysed, the ESS subject to hospitals. Their integration, however, took place with the incomplete staff they had at that time without providing for their classification as decentralized units with their own organograms. Thus, the substation problem deteriorated, as the staff spread inside hospital staff. Today, of the thirty CFPs, which exist all over the world, most of them fail, while some are not working yet. Although most of them are for closed - type hospitals, they only work as such and actually serve outside patients. With one word, the general picture of CFPs is an abandonment picture with a few exceptions. The reintroduction of CFPs to the responsibility of the Welfare Ministry, in our view, is not a solution. Rehabilitation centres are tertiary health structures and the right is to form structures of the National Health System. Different thing is their decoupling from hospitals, which, according to the experience so far, seems to be the most appropriate solution, and therefore in the design presented to committees by Minister of Health Andreas Xanthos presented all the design and measures for upgrading and administrative support of restoration structures with what is provided for in the new organization of the Ministry of Health, for measures to upgrade the restoration services that were analysed. For the irreversible account, we can say that with what was said at the previous meeting of committees, we think we can agree to reintroducing to EUR 1500 the irreversible account. I think that the proposals need to be implemented as soon as the budgetary conditions allow, as this concerns the other two proposals that have been made as amendments. And close with institutional changes. The draft law has already been launched to reform the institutional framework for disability under the responsibility of the Minister of State Christofordakis, entitled ‘Proposal for legislation to reform disability legislation in accordance with the United Nations International Convention’. A comprehensive change in disability certification is also being prepared in order to reduce suffering and opaque procedures. The Legislation on Adoption and Adoption is drafted. The design will, among other things, contribute to the dematerialisation and dematerialisation of infants and children. A single management and payment of allowances and payment of allowances shall be processed on a regular basis for the development of the OGA. Finally, to mention that the positive measures of the agreement that we have ratified, emphasis is placed on the areas of social protection with an increase in family allowances for the first and second children, while remaining the same allowance for both the third and each additional child, a rental subsidy to cover about half of the population. There is a subsidy which is at a satisfactory level. There is also provision for the inclusion of infants up to four years of age in nurseries, a cost of 150 million infants. There are also plans to increase nursery structures, about a thousand seven hundred new structures. I'll close now. The Government's insistence on support measures for vulnerable groups, as well as the programmes that have been planned or implemented, are a illustration of our given and recorded support in this very sensitive area of social protection. Despite the existing unfavourable financial environment and the previous policy, we can say that every effort is being made to benefit the vulnerable population and we continue as many actions as we can. To remind you - because we were provoked for this yesterday - that the government received a social protection budget of EUR 780 million. In 2017, the budget provides for 1.550m euros and in 2019 it will amount to 2,730m euros. Here is the proof that social protection is a priority for our government work, even in the period of economic suffocation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u81	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u82	Mr President, will you put a series of Members of Parliament later?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u83	They state under the Rules of Procedure, Mr Brutsi, and of course in turn. The rapporteur, Mr Yoyakas, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u84	Ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by pointing out that the delay with which the proposal for a law of the Democratic Alliance is being discussed, about sixteen months after it was tabled, unfairs this initiative to some extent. It would be more useful for this proposal to be discussed and taken into account before the government legislates the social income of solidarity. We are talking today about the management of the poverty of the Greek society. We see our fellow citizens suffering. We see their psyche disturbed. We see the people next door suffering. Nevertheless, we feel that even this is the way to reiterate and agree on two things. One is that we need to strengthen interventions to support the weak groups of our fellow citizens much more after the economic recession over the last two years and what has been planned for the next three years. I would remind you that the closure of the first and second assessments brought measures of around EUR 9.2 billion in new taxes and cuts, measures affecting, among other things, the low-wage, pensioners and all those already on the margin or at the risk of poverty. Already in the 2017 budget, pension and social allowances expenditure decreased by 1,8 billion euros. Only pension expenditure is less than 700 million, while the ESS has been cut by 600 million euros. A total of EUR 4.3 billion will be deducted in 2017 from the citizens' pockets with only EUR 870 million, EUR 570 million for the social income of solidarity and EUR 300 million for social structures. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, support for the weaker, despite any attempt, has limited effects when there is a recession, overtaxation and without investment. The second point, which we agreed on, is that the various policies cannot cover to the extent that our fellow citizens must be at risk of poverty. Different benefits in different population categories, limited decentralisation, inability to target in each case separately are some of the problems, so poor people and households get less than they need to have a minimum decent living. Coming to the proposal for a law, the debate in the committee has shown itself to be called upon to assess the implementation of the social solidarity income, which we again recall has been legislated as a minimum guaranteed income by the Government of Samaras - Venizelos and was voted against by the SYRIZA then. And not only was it voted against, you yelled, Minister, that it is not right and that our country is poor. It was then piloted in thirteen municipalities with socio-economic criteria in October 2012 and then exploited the results. This allowance has, according to design, three pillars. The first is financial support with social and income criteria. The second is that beneficiaries should be given access to services and first-time goods, while the third pillar is attempting to integrate or re-enter the labour market through training and employment programmes. Today we are unable to say whether the second and third pillars are working. The pilot implementation of the programme is not indicative. Thirty municipalities in the country were selected, where the inhabitants had suffered the biggest losses of income and live in extreme poverty. The extension of the program across Greece has only been running since March, when the first payment of the beneficiaries was made for those who applied for and approved the previous February. It is clear that we need to have aggregated data for a longer period, perhaps after six months, so that we can have a valid picture. This is the case with Article 1 of the proposal for a law. With regard to Article 2, on the European Aid Fund for the Most deprived, as you know, it runs through fifty-seven social partnerships throughout the country, a co-financed food distribution programme and priority species. Other Members of this House have said so in the committees. It is a programme that is very useful in order to relieve the poorest and to address food insecurity. That is why one euro of EUR 330 million, guaranteed by 2020, cannot be lost. This means that, Minister, you must see the design and procedures of the programme again. In Article 4 we agree with the reinstatement of the irresponsible account at 1,500 euros, as we agree that all the wheelchair, prostitution and social benefits that take our fellow citizens must be protected against seizures. There has been a lot of discussion in the committee on Article 5 on JEPs, on the network, which will serve citizens and support social protection actions. It is already planned to operate locally, two hundred and fifty-four community centres. We understand the various difficulties, but the number of community centres which operate, according to what the Minister told us in committee, is not satisfactory. We believe that the priority at the moment is to move faster the operation of the centres and, of course, to be fully interconnected with the social programmes and social services of the municipalities. With regard to Article 6, we agree that the decoupling of the centres of education, social support and training for disabled people from hospitals is in the right direction. The Minister for Health told the committee that he sought a national recovery aid plan in the public health system. CYCLES will be decoupled by hospitals and will be decentralised structures of the Ministry of Health and other health professionals. Our disagreement lies in two points. Our first disagreement is that the recovery network must be uniform throughout the country, so that there can indeed be national planning and an integrated picture of problems and needs. Our second disagreement is that other actors, speculative and non-profit-making, who are supported by disabled people, from certified private rehabilitation centres to local SMEs and non-governmental organisations must also be included in this network. We hope that the Ministry of Health will immediately recommend the team of experts and have his proposal for rehabilitation structures as soon as possible. The problems of these people and their families are many and they have no luxury waiting. Ladies and gentlemen, everything we have said on the occasion of today's debate is part of the priorities set by the Economic and Social Committee to strengthen the protection and integration of our vulnerable fellow citizens. We need a social service quality map, a national system for dealing with poverty and social exclusion, where the private sector and civil society organisations will play a role. We believe that regions and municipalities should have more competence and resources to implement local and targeted policies, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. And, as we said earlier, as far as the European Aid Fund for the most deprived is concerned, the possibilities of exploiting all the sources of the ESDP must be exhausted. However, much more we believe in policies that will increase national income, create jobs and support the business initiative, because only in this way will we reverse the increase in poverty, but we will also be able to finance a strong social protection network that supports with sufficient support for those who really need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, twenty-nine students and students and two educational attendants from the 2nd Municipal School of Thevas. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Evangelos Karakostas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr President. We are today on the occasion of the proposal for a PASOK law once again witnessing the supposed social sensitivity of the democratic arc, the democratic arc, which is the most responsible of the Greeks' sufferings. So PASOK, in agreement with the Memorandum of Judas SYRIZA - ANEL, as well as the Memorandum of New Democracy, is coming to present the devastated protector of the poor people's strata, the same PASOK which made Greece a protectorate of international tugs. The PASOK is today being cut off for the poorening of the Greek people and the humanitarian crisis that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government has sometimes claimed, but today it does not mention it at all, because the Tsipras - Kammenos Government does not give a nail to the Greeks who are hungry, who are losing jobs and homes, for the Greeks who are ignoring the economic crisis you have caused. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] It was, however, the same PASOK, the hatred, the remulsion, the scandals, the rumours, the appointments, the black funds, which in 2010 dragged our homeland and people into the toenails of the International Monetary Fund, signing the first Memorandum. However, this was not enough in the supposedly socially sensitive PASOK of the'speakers'. Their then president, Jeffrey or George Papandreou, considered his duty to discredit, humiliate and dismantle the Greek people, claiming to be leading a corrupt people. This is from an interview with the CNBC on 11 December 2009. What he did not say, of course, is that corruption in Greece introduced it and even turned it into science - PASOK. The Members of this House did not dare to disapprove and renounce the insulting statements of their President, but they have the courage today as sage politicians to seek to represent the protectors of the weak. So there comes a proposal for a PASOK law on guaranteed social income and strengthening social protection and inclusion, a proposal for a law by a party which signed the first, second, third and hypocritically avoided voting for the fourth, not because it understood and regretted the criminal errors and choices of the past, but because SYRIZA and ANEL are in the government. PASOK, like its New Democracy partners, would vote for the fourth memorandum with hands and feet if they were in power. However, what reinforcement of social integration are you talking about? Let's talk about it, so the Greek people can learn. There is particular reference to refugees and immigrants in the proposal and their inclusion in the special aid benefits, while in the same period thousands of Greek families are deprived of basic goods because of the policies you have designed and implemented. The regulation proposed by the fourth subparagraph of Article 5(1), in which, inter alia, benefits are referred to in the programmes for immigrants, is fully in line with the respective anti-national policy on illegal immigration, which both SYRIZA and the entire range of the so-called democratic arch are serving. In addition, in the same Article 1(1), pupils with disabilities and children with learning difficulties shall be unequal, who obviously need the highest possible welfare from the state, with illegal immigrants. The proposal for a law of the thief - PASOK is racist and that is why it was accepted with so much warmth by the anti-national government SYRIZA - ANEL. If you really are tired of the poverty of the Greek people, then the Golden Dawn is causing you open. Introduce for the millions of non-preferential Greeks the privileges and amenities enjoyed throughout Greece by the illegal immigrants you brought to our country. Require your so-called humanist partners the millions of euros you receive to make illegal immigrants available to the non-preferential Greeks. The homes, which are rented by the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, with all the coffers, with free water, electricity, for example in the Municipality of Livadeas, are also entitled to be granted to undignified Greeks, who live below the limits of poverty. So why this selective approach? Why the Greeks' exclusion? But you will never do that, because your misuse of the so-called democratic bow is very racist and racist against the Greeks. You criminalized the food distributions of the Golden Dawn, claiming it is racist to address only Greeks. The UN High Commissioner for Refugees, the NGOs and the George Soros organisations only spend hundreds of millions of euros on refugees and immigrants. Is that not racism for you, or is it more than 25% of the Greek people, who live below the limits of poverty, not for you people? In conclusion, I would like again to refer to the party, which tabled this proposal for a law, which hopes that with such political tricks it can deceive the Greek people. On Friday, September 27, 2013, Golden Dawn presents evidence to the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay, which makes PASOK a criminal organisation. This is the famous dossier for the 114 'black' million euros, which were lost without documentary evidence from the PASOK offices - a file which is locked following a political mandate in the drawers of justice. These, of course, are neither scripts nor speculations of the Golden Dawn. I'm reading you from the vacancy report. "It has become fully known and has dealt with all the journalistic means of finding the five most famous private audit firms of chartered accountants for the financial management of state grants and other funds from the parliamentary party's PASOK for the period 2007-2010, from whose induction conclusion serious evidence arises of felony criminal acts by organs of the above party." So what about this case? If the then government of New Democracy - PASOK made sure to cover it up, what is the SYRIZA - ANEL Government doing today? These are gentlemen your pseudo-democracy, which you all refer to from the imitators of Stalin, Chauchescu and Hoja to the liberal submissives of bankers and loan sharks. Because this pseudo-democracy, the corrupt bone we nationalists neither believe it, nor do we serve it, we are voting against the proposal for a law of PASOK, the thief - PASOK. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u87	Are we going well, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u88	When fascists accuse you as a criminal, something good you've done for the country...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, we are used to hearing such things in the Greek Parliament. Democracy has the tolerance to be able to operate with such voices. What can we do? Mr Katsotis from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr President. I oppose what has been said. Let this be judged as a whole by the Greek people and isolate racism, nationalism, fascism and Nazism. Today we are discussing the proposal for a law of the PASOK entitled 'Guaranteed social income - strengthening social protection and integration'. We would like to point out from the outset that we should once again - not to you, you and the people very well know - that this so-called social income of solidarity or the minimum guaranteed income, as was before, is a basic political direction of the European Union for the management of extreme poverty and for the social integration of vulnerable social groups who are unemployed, homeless, ill-considered, essentially dependent. It shall apply with various variations in the Member States of the Union. This policy is also coming forward with the proposal for a PASOK law. But the Government of SYRIZA - ANEL as more decisive in implementing all the anti-government decisions of the European Union and the International Monetary Fund, the associations of capital, in other words, has prevented you. But what is the direction of the European Union? Each Member State says, setting the minimum standard of living below which a person cannot live, i.e. extreme poverty, legislates a programme with the corresponding amount of income that can be money or related to benefits in kind that he needs to receive from the State. What does it say unequivocally about the International Monetary Fund report? He says: "The greatest savings can be achieved by abolishing most of the allowances and replacing them with a single minimum income programme that operates on income criteria and is aimed at less than 20% of the allocation of income". That is the report of the International Monetary Fund. That is what the government is doing today for savings through the abolition of allowances. In the same logic, the OECD report, which states that the payment of allowances and disability pensions should depend on the poverty threshold, on labour capacity and assets, with a target of 1% of GDP paid for them to fall to 0.3%. This is the direction of the government, as is the previous one. The Government has implemented - and continues to implement - this direction by reversal in the welfare sector, in implementation of the third memorandum, which also refers to the review of the social welfare system and the replacement of the minimum guaranteed income with social solidarity income. The so-called CRL is the continuation of the work of the former Government of the New Democracy - PASOK in line with the European Union's management policy, as we said of extreme poverty by providing crumbs to the most impoverished. The change that took place is exactly in that name. We have to recognise that the government has gone further. What did he do? It established the so-called 'national mechanism for the monitoring and evaluation of social inclusion and social cohesion policies - arrangements for social solidarity, etc.' aimed at organising the state mechanism at all three levels, in order to ensure the management of social welfare anti-grassroots policy, in line with the European Union, the International Monetary Fund and the OECD guidelines, which speaks of the abolition of allowances and the minimum guaranteed income. The objective is obvious: limiting any cash benefits, items and services in the popular layers that are or are likely to be included in the criteria for capital and the governments that support it in poverty or extreme poverty. The so-called "national mechanism" was one of the tools for the exercise of the anti-population policy of the government, which reproduces, simulates poverty and impoverishment in an increasing part of the people's families. The government not only protects the weak, but makes them weaker and increases them above. In the third memorandum passed by all parties, other than the JRC, the signing of the SYRIZA Government wide opens up to the commitment that every year and for as long as the programme lasts - and this programme has gone further - it will cut the welfare funds by 0.5% of GDP. You have voted for this, gentlemen, all of you. Social income of solidarity does not add, but removes from the benefits of the people's families. It forms part of the policy of supporting business groups, the reduction of non-wage costs, i.e. social benefits, the formation of an even cheaper labour force to re-elevate the capitalist economy that is hostile to and even removes the elementary needs of workers. The confirmation that the reductions in benefits related to both categories of the population - children, young people, homeless, drug-dependent people, people living in absolute poverty - came to be confirmed by the resolution of the fourth memorandum, which cut benefits, as I said, even for unprotected children and those in absolute poverty. The result of this anti-grassroots, anti-grassroots policy is the spread of absolute and relative poverty. Yeah, we're saying on the capitalist development path, there's no room for everyone's work. They don't have any work and insurance rights. Even the people's basic needs cannot be met. Free access to health, medicine, education and welfare cannot be allowed for everyone. Everything depends on the needs of capital, on its competitiveness, on the increasing profitability that is their goal. Ensuring the needs of capital by the governments with the parties that make up them, has led them to an end, as we have said, and the fundamental rights of the people. It is precisely the unemployed, the poor, the homeless, the hungry, the undernourished and any other tragic phenomenon that dominated and dominated our homeland and in times of crisis, but also in a period of development. Capital is ruthless. It does not allow the sacred and loyal to be touched. Governments are bleeding the people to ensure them. They do social policy by cutting off the poor to make them available to the most poor, the hungry and the homeless. The large robbery by reducing wages, pensions, unemployment benefits, by taxing people's layers, creates even more poor ones. The surpluses require more blood. The so-called rationalisation of privileged benefits, their abolition, that is to say, the link with the social solidarity allowance, is blood from the weakest for the surpluses. The vast majority of our people are in a tragic situation. Unemployment remains high with serious consequences for the unemployed and their families. Underemployment is largely dominated, especially by young workers, and as long as they also experience the consequences of low incomes. Elastic forms of work are generalized. The elements of "ERGANIS", yesterday, are revealing. Partial and rotating work in the first five months of 2017 is over 50%. Collective labour contracts have been abolished. The result of the contract regulation has created conditions for reducing the wages of workers to the lower levels of EUR 586 or EUR 511 mixed for young people in our country. Again, the elements of the 'ERGANIS' confirm what we say that 70% of those employed with full employment are less than EUR 586 gross. This is the situation that has been created by your policy, beyond that large business groups employ young people and young people with salaries from EUR 150 to EUR 300 per month. On the other hand, pensions, with continuous cuts, have lost half the annual earnings. As we said yesterday, 16 billion euros are cuts against pensioners in the fourth memorandum. They are the cuts of this SYRIZA Government - ANEL. A few days ago, you abolished the unemployment benefit for new entrants on the labour market. This is the payment of the OAED allowance to unemployed persons up to twenty-nine years of age. What are you hypocrites? Aren't you hypocrites when you say that young people are your priority? You're also abolishing your unemployment benefit! It's a tragedy. Just young people and young people should understand who you serve with your policy. You have abolished aid to households, as I said, in poverty, to households with low incomes and children in public schools. You abolished aid to unprotected children. You have further cut the heating allowance. As far as housing, child and baby care benefits are concerned, school meals will also take into account the assets, which means that there will be no income but there will be a house, that will be cut off, and much more. In addition to all that, you continue as a government to make use of CSRs to curtail disabled pensions and other disability benefits. Every day, the mobilisations, even in cripples of disabled persons, are torn apart on the basis of the guidelines you have given for limiting disability pensions and allowances. Yesterday, there was a massive representation of the Vice-President of the EPC about this unacceptable policy that you are pursuing on disability pensions. The JRC, as we have said in committee, only during this period of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government has tabled five proposals for legislation, which we respond to the people's immediate needs. One proposal for a law concerned the reintroduction of collective agreements, the third and fourteenth drafts. This proposal has also been supplemented by the tabling of the proposal for a law of 513 federations, labour centres and unions. We have tabled a third proposal for the effective protection of the unemployed, for an unemployment benefit equal to 80% of the minimum wage, which we say should be at EUR 751. Of course, we have also made a number of other proposals for the unemployed and, among them, the ban on any act of forced execution at the expense of the main and secondary residence. You will be able to get on the road today through the electronic auction by a number of people who cannot repay the loans because of the situation in which they have arrived, because you are loading the crisis, the debt, on their backs, with redundancies, unemployment, with the reduction in wages. We have also tabled a proposal for a law to relieve the people's family, with effective protection of the first and second homes, as I have said, but also a deletion of the amounts of interest that have been capitalised and others included. You turned it down. We have tabled a proposal to abolish the memorandums, which you have rejected again. But all these proposals, ladies and gentlemen, have been rejected not only by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, but also by the other parties, because they are in the opposite direction to what you are following. The JRC says: Our criterion is that social benefits are a popular need and a right and not a cost, as they consider and according to the concept promoted by the parties in urban management and development on the basis of an increase in capitalist profit. In this respect, we reject the plans, policies and measures which promote government, capital and the European Union, which, on the one hand, form extensive poverty within the capitalist economy and, on the other, demarcate state benefits at the level of impoverishment. Today we consider that all the material conditions and possibilities exist. We have a production of huge social wealth, scientific and technological potential, but also an increase in the productivity of work for the people, so that not only he can live better, but live just as he deserves. In order to do this, however, we are addressing the people and saying that the material conditions must function in social property and not atomic conditions, as is the case today. That is why the JRC calls on the people not to compromise with poverty and misery, but to claim all that they have taken particularly in recent years, but also everything they own. The workers and the populace have an interest in the organization of the struggle and the struggle for another radically different organization of the economy and society, where they themselves plan to do the same, rather than the monopolies, for the labour power that will socialise the concentrated means of production, make it popular and plan development on the basis of the fulfilment of modern popular needs. In these circumstances, social policy will be provided by the state free of charge to all workers and people, with special care for departments with special and increased needs, such as children, women, older people, MEDIs, multiple families, single-parent families, etc. In this direction, we support conflict targets for which we are also fighting within the working people's movement, namely the defence and expansion of rights first of all of the working class, the self-employed in towns and the countryside of youth and the populace, and in particular the unemployed, the half-employed, the disabled, the long-term unemployed and their families, the multi-purpose and other groups. With all of this, we believe that this proposal for a law is beyond and outside this perspective and that it also belongs to the minimums that we want to learn the world to live, and that is why we think it is not a basis for satisfying the needs of our own people.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos has the floor from the Independent Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr President. Just before Hitler came to power, Thomas Man wrote a shocking and timely book, the "Magic Mountain". That's where Thomas Man describes the conflict between two societies, the one that comes and the one that existed. Many years ago, he considered neither a little or a little naive to people who were then talking about social justice, a social state, solidarity, disarmament and democracy. The market's almightyness was beginning to prevail. They still hadn't seen each other, but little - they had risen up. One would say that this book, which at the time started talking about economic paradises, about rich people who become less and richer, about the social state that disappears, was a really prophetic book. It was not too late and - to come to today - we saw that the first thing Mr Trump had in mind was to abolish ObamaCare. Not that it was something terrible and terrible, but millions of uninsured Americans - in the country that they're supposed to be rich - find a bulwark. That was the first. We have still seen the almighty Germany maintained by the poor countries. It is not only Greece, but Italy, Spain, Portugal, France and Ireland. All these countries' deficits are surpluses. It is the 150 billion that the German government has literally won over the past decades. We are now seeing, a few days ago, an incredible tension in the Middle East, on the pretext of supposedly religious differences. Some people want to sell guns. Some people want to do construction work. Some people want to sell oil. Why am I saying all this? Because the concept of a social state that made Sweden famous for Erlander and Palme, really when Sweden was a point of reference for the whole world, with rules on the market - there was a market - and a social state that everyone tried to imitate at some point, has a declining course. On the occasion of the proposal for a law which the Democratic Alliance is doing, I would like to say a few things. In a hundred families, the money was gone for many years that the two parties ruled. I'm sorry to say that. Where did the billions of the stock market go? Where did the billions of the overpriced of the Olympic Games go? What social state? Where did the billions of armaments go? Where did the billions of health go? Where did the billions of ‘SIEMENS’ go? Where did the billions of the Agricultural Bank go? And a lot more. Because, in fact, if you were interested in the social state, something you would have made it not to "split" a hundred and two hundred families and transfer it abroad and be difficult to return. Although we all know that a proposal for a law from the Democratic Integration cannot be put to the vote, because when it comes to economic costs, it will not be put to the vote, it is for me this most useful debate. If you would like me, all six proposals made by the Democratic Partnership would be happy to be this area of controversy if we had to get the tax-free to 1,500. Of course, together. But how? With a budget gap unbelievable, the country became a weak link and has actually paid for a large part of society. I'll be unpleasant because talking is good, but truths hurt. When this government took over, a million people were below the poverty line and some two and a half million were on the poverty line. Unemployment was 27%, not to forget. Debt was over 320 billion. Who made this? One quarter of the Greeks had already lost their income. Hordes of people in the piles, in the trash cans and go by saying. There, if it were to be a social state, which, again, is a conflict of two worlds, a philosophy of extreme neoliberalism, where the almighty few become stronger and fewer and poorer, are becoming more and more impoverished. Is it worth the time to talk about it? No, it's just worth it, it's the number one word for me. I'm on it again. I welcome all six proposals. I don't have misery. I wish an opponent would come and say the best before we adopt it and see what we can do. And since I was also in the debate in committee, I was one of those who said: 'Children, if you'll excuse me, I believe that all these proposals are in the right direction.' But be honest. I'll just say three numbers. Was the budget so much when this government took over for the social state with numbers? Anybody questioning them? It was 780 million. Under conditions of social suffocation and a terrible crisis, in 2017 this amount increased by one billion. He went 1 750 billion. No one can question it. Sakis Papadopoulos spoke with details. I'll listen to the Fire Goddess. It programs this government again under conditions of social suffocation, in 2019 for 2,700 billion, or 780 million, we got 1.750 and we go for 2,750. If this is not a tangible proof who really hurts and respects the concept of a social state, then what is it? I don't want to say more and I don't need to say more. In fact, I believe that if the nipple leaves our neck, the top priority is these people. They are people who really suffer and are many. I'm not hiding behind my finger. Today we are talking about a piece of the market is squeezing. Another big part in society is squeezing. Indeed, we have had to take unpleasant measures, but on one condition that this cycle will return, and I believe, because it is also timely, that on June 15 we will see something different and I think that the country will leave this grandson. In fact, I hope that our disagreements will be with all parties if the irresponsible will be 1,000 or 1,500. They're beautiful disagreements. These should be our disagreements here, not of another kind, and we should all fight for the social state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Spyridon Dannelis from the river has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the opportunity afforded by the Rules of Procedure for the submission and debate of motions for resolutions to the opposition parties is a feature of an advanced Parliamentary Republic, obviously. However, when he spends almost a year and a half to discuss this proposal for a law, it is of course sterilising it from reality and topicality and tending to be like a parliamentary exercise rather than a parliamentary procedure. The social state in all the countries of Europe started as non-coordinating charity and social aid initiatives, first I taught Bismarck Germany at the end of the 19th century. Later, it was extended to other countries in the European North, until in the first half of the 20th century there were shortcomings and overlap. Others didn't take anything, and others took two and three times. Practical charity has gradually given its place in social rights and in a more organised form, what we now call a social state, a well-organised welfare system. Embryo specific arrangements have been replaced by an integrated welfare system operating under uniform rules. At the top of this dilemma is the debate on the minimum guaranteed income, namely the flagship of the modern social security network. Of course, in the permanently lagging Greece for years we have lived the paradox beneficiaries of social benefits belonging to the richest, so let us say, 10% of the population, receive a higher allowance than those who belong to the poorest 10% of the population. This Greek paradox is also seen in many relevant indicators, where it is reflected that our country, while spending much more money proportionately, but also completely, on social benefits in relation to many of its partners in the European Union, does not pay off the expected results. A more careful look reveals that the portion of the lion of social expenditure is heading towards medium-income and not to the poor, as it would be more rational, at least until recently. These indicators have recently improved. Why is that? The answer is simple. We have never set priorities in relation to the real needs of the beneficiaries. However, the needs of the beneficiaries are redefined by the times and it is necessary to redefine from the state structures. This is a continuous, a dynamic process that has no static features. The fourth industrial revolution is here and it seems that it is dynamically changing the labour market, as is social stratification. The citizens of the Western world are invited to adapt to growing automation, robotics and important developments in the fields of research and technology. These are developments which are expected to deprive even more jobs than those which have already disappeared. Not unjustifiedly, the middle class feels like it's becoming more and more from this new reality. It sees its incomes and prospects falling, and I am now moving on to its insecureness because of the unregulated, yet globalised economy and, of course, without a time horizon that tells us that the globalised economy can finally be politically regulated. The labour market in this economy includes new forms of flexible labour, lower stable wages of high uncertainty and, unfortunately, higher unemployment rates, at least in terms of the Western world. I fear that this is an irreversible situation, at least at this juncture. The modern growth model itself appears to produce structural imbalances and inequalities. Financial capitalism has prevailed over productive capitalism. This means that it recycles uncontrolled air or, in other words, titles and does not appear willing to invest in the real economy involving more stable incomes from labour and, of course, jobs. In any case, in the new division of labour, real work is lost and as a result the gap between rich and poor opens dangerously in favour of the former. In this light, it is not by chance that the irrational choices of the respective electorate that arise as a reaction and are observed with alarming frequency at every race in Europe, as in the United States. Similar procedures are also observed in our country, despite our divergences and specialities in relation to the countries of the capitalist core. The middle-class in our country has seen in recent years, especially during the years of the crisis, its incomes being drastically reduced, as it compresses itself between the upper and lower economic sections. The minimum guaranteed income as a matter of public dialogue has been raised in our country relatively recently, contrary to the other European countries. New developments in this debate, such as basic universal income, have not even been opened here, although the idea of a monthly allowance to every citizen regardless of social order seems to have fanatical supporters anymore. The crisis has found us unprepared not only at theoretical level, but also at structural level. We in the river from the outset agreed with those who were talking about the need to introduce the social solidarity benefit which is clearly an important tool to tackle the social crisis, because not only does it protect the weaker, but it also ensures that when the recovery comes, no one will stay behind. It is characteristic that in countries such as Ireland and Cyprus that had such systems, the effects of the crisis were much more tolerable. Social income of solidarity, as is being given today and also as proposed by PASOK, is in the form of an allowance given to those who have an annual amount of income below. For example, it is currently true for those who have an EUR 1,200 six-monthly income, for a single-person household - the PASOK in the proposal does not mention the amount - and for those who fulfil certain other conditions of a situation of property such as, for example, not to exceed the real estate or deposits of a particular amount. At the same time, those who deserve social solidarity will also be entitled to a number of other privileges, such as PPC's Social Invoice, heating allowance and others. We are proposing that all of this be combined with targeted actions for integration into the labour market, because what I think should be a top priority and priority issue is preparing for reintegration into the labour market for every unemployed person of every age. Here, too, we should point out that when the recovery comes at last, the same positions that we have lost will not again be created as magically as we have lost. The new jobs that will be created will be of other characteristics, with other requirements. Continuing training, therefore, and lifelong learning, as well as their necessary connection to the labour market, are key to avoid losing the opportunity for anyone who has a new opportunity in front of them. In relation to Article 2 of the proposal for a law referred to in the ETUC, i.e. the co-financed programme for the distribution of food and first-time goods implemented through fifty-seven social partnerships across the country, I will tell you exactly where we are. Of the EUR 330,000,000 guaranteed by 2020, for 2015, EUR 26,000, which were shared in the fifty-seven social partnerships throughout the country, and through a relevant procurement procedure that took place for the first time, vegetables and meat were included in the products that share social grocery stores. I think that at these rates, mathematically the absorption of EUR 330,000,000 is not coming out in the six-year period, but if we only follow these rates of EUR 150,000. Because the needs are much larger, I think we should be able to take the pace here, so that we can absorb and make use of all the funds available. We obviously agree with Articles 3 and 4 of the proposal for a law on the protection of first residence, as defined by the 'Katelis Law' and the reinstatement of the amount of EUR 1000 at EUR 1500. The question is whether within the specific limitations that exist and the possibility of realistically improving these conditions. In Article 5, which concerns the JEPs and their staff, we nonetheless agree that instead of setting up a pan-Hellenic private debt management support service, the JEPs should be set up by building new structures from the outset that will open other windows of possible step-by-step - not now, over time - to be able to support the General Secretariat in Greece, by strengthening the JEPs themselves. Ladies and gentlemen, with the founder of facebook recently stating at the Harvard graduation ceremony that universal basic income is part of a new social contract for the new generation, we understand that the design of the social state has changed dramatically, because work is changing, the social classes are changing. So it is not possible to change the model of the social state. The minimum guaranteed income is the basis, but I think we need to start the debate, seriously now, on what the social state of the future will be in our country, without reproducing all the distortions and all the failures of the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague, Mrs Theodora, from the Centroz Union, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, Minister, I would first like to refer to the JRC's colleague. And we, Mr Colleague, did not vote for the measures, were it not just you, so why did you mention that? On the occasion of this, I had something in mind, namely that capitalism shares unequal wealth and socialism shares unequal poverty. These are the two important data.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u97	That's a very philosophical thing you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u98	Of course! We have socialism. "The poorer and richer," as my grandmother said. Because you said we voted too. We are therefore discussing today the proposal for a law tabled by the Democratic Integration on guaranteed social income and on strengthening social protection. First of all, I would like to mention that there is a wide range of reflection about how parliamentary processes work. When we come to discuss a proposal for a law tabled sixteen months ago, I ask you how it is possible to take a legislative initiative with demands from the opposition when the legislative proposals come so long after this. Finally, what social, economic, political needs can it cover such a proposal of law, when we are actually so far from the time it is tabled? In any case, today's debate concerns a number of measures proposed to alleviate the social injustices suffered by our weakest fellow citizens. Of course, after eight years of harsh economic austerity, we now have nothing to discuss but measures to manage the poverty of the Greeks. Sadly, this whole collective now seems perfectly normal. We keep talking about our poverty. I think this is the accident: that we used to reason that we should first destroy everything and then look to see how we can keep the average Greek in life, which has exceeded the limits of its strength and is ready, if you allow me, to jump off his balcony. I do not think it is right to get him to this point and then say 'we hold you, don't fall'. If that's not a failed policy, a strategy, then really what's called a failure? The Centro Association has many times, and in all tones it has been mentioned the need to see substantial change structures in the administration of the country and in total state operation. Individual reclassifications, which are sometimes attempted, with no practical application in practice many times, may not have any effect. Our country must get away from the morbid logics and policies of the past and seek a new path based on merit, design and sustainable development. All the rest just keep hostages to concepts of anachronistic, which brought us to the state we are now. Of course, too much remains to be done for the effective recovery of our country. Until then we have to see in the face of the humanitarian crisis that exists and do the best to deal with it. I repeat that it should not be a question of putting the unemployed into a reasonable position of privileged benefits. When we give him a bonus, we don't rescue him. Just what we have to do is be able to enable him to work, produce, save himself a living. With the allowance we give him, as if we give him charity as if he were begging, we devour him and make him feel unworthy, feel that he is not offering anything. We're reducing him like a human being. This is healthy for every citizen: to be able to survive on his own. However, until there is an appropriate government initiative in this direction, we all have to look after the people who are suffering. Unfortunately, there are many who have reached the limits of impoverishment. More than a million Greeks live below the poverty line. Equally dramatic is the evidence of children living in unacceptable conditions. Approximately five hundred thousand children are below the unacceptable limits of poverty and require immediate social assistance. In this context it would be completely absurd not to support any legislative initiative that moves towards the relief of these people. Now you'll tell me, Minister, that we're giving the children a pile. I do not think it is excellent not to faint from hunger and give them a pile. We went back to the 1950s and 1960s. But then it was after the war. If you consider it an achievement, I will congratulate you. Thus, we are obviously in favour of extending the social income of solidarity, which is already under article 235 of Law No4389/2016 and the following CYA, to more citizens and municipalities in the country. We do not, of course, have the illusion that social income of solidarity is the solution to all the problems. On the contrary, this is the least possible aid, since it ensures that, for example, an individual will have at least EUR 200 a month's revenue. In other words, you still do not guarantee basic living goods. Moreover, in relation to the pace of implementation of the EIDA, the European Aid Fund for the Most deprived, we obviously support all efforts to overcome the timeless delays observed in the Greek state mechanism. Moreover, in such a difficult economic period for the country there is no room for inconsistency and indifference in the issue of the absorption of European funds, let alone when it comes to the relief of our fellow citizens. Another issue raised by the proposal for a law is an increase in the amount of the irresponsible account from EUR 1 000 and EUR 1.250 to EUR 1,500, which I think should be done. Citizens each day are faced with an increasingly aggressive tax raid and a tax raid, while at the same time their incomes are falling. In this context, the average Greek has very few equipment to defend, protect and secure a minimum amount of living. A proposal to increase the irresponsible account therefore finds us in agreement. Now in relation to the protection of the first home of Article 3, the main problem is not the cases of those who have been requested to be subject to Law 3869/2010 for the indebted households, because these debtors and the fate of their first residence are judged by the Greek judges, who decide on a case-by-case basis and rescue the homes of the citizens who have been in a bad position because of the overcompensation. To a large extent, the banks themselves have provoked this themselves, which - let me consider - are moral experts, because the banks have chosen excessive lending. Those commercials made for housing loans, holidays, studies and whatever loans they came from, they gave the credit cards uncheckedly - those found under your door - just to show their balances increased, to mock their shareholders, while their real capital and their deposits didn't cover them, and that was illegal. They also continued to grant loans to the parties guaranteeing future grants to New Democracy, 240 million to the PASOK - to the media air loans, as admitted to the Committee of Inquiry. Only to borrowers knew how to put mortgages and collateral guarantees and get the guarantors, the dead parents, the grandparents to sign up. Now they'll take everything from them. Because now, with the auctions that will be made, the electronics, which each one can even enter from abroad - which abroad have money - will buy in 2/3 of the real value, not the objective that we have so far paid HUNP. So they will leave the properties from the hands of the Greeks and the slogan you had taken off, the flag of SYRIZA, "No house in the hands of a banker", will become "no house in the hands of an owner", know that, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. Two thirds of the real value won't get them to pay anything and they'll be indebted. You don't practice the American system to take their homes and not to owe them any debts. They'll owe and take the guarantors they signed, like a father who signed up to help his son make a business and mortgage his father's home. Think about it. Give them the right to borrowers, as you will give them to the funds, to be able to buy red loans. Why would they take the funds with 10%, 15% and 20%? Give them the right to buy them. You'll be the ones responsible for the suicides that will be committed. The people will rise. Listen to me. I'm going further. I do not disagree with the JEP that will be to serve the citizens. But, here, let me have my reservations that you will meet the needs of the citizens, which you are saying for a major role, but there must be some serious study, some preparation of a report on the staff that will be required, on the costs that will be incurred, for the needs that will be met, because in these centres, let me say, you intend to appoint a new staff. Finally, a long-standing issue has arisen with centres for physical and medical rehabilitation. I think we all agree that they are facing serious subsidization problems and have in general not been able to respond to their roles. In essence, most of them remain limited to a very small role and under no circumstances help those in need of treatment and rehabilitation as a whole. So there are also centers that are practically nonexistent, while the Center for Physical Medical Rehabilitation of Rethymnon hospital began its operation a few days ago, after it remained closed for at least two years. Of course, it is not clear whether the problem will be solved by joining the welfare centres. In any case, there should be a real administrative upgrade for them. Whether we're talking about directly entrusting them to the Ministry of Health or assigning them to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but again with serious supervision of the Ministry. Because it is a question of seeing immediate results and not of continuing this tragic situation. Unfortunately, the government has taken many steps back with regard to the needs of disabled people. Rehabilitation centres are only one example. There are correspondingly serious problems in the repayment of special treatment treatments, but also in the general awareness of the AMEs. We have not even dealt effectively with the issues of access to public spaces for people with disabilities. This is therefore a great and very serious debate and I hope that we will be heard at some point by the government and look at the results in practice. I would like to make a little reference to the amendments that have been incorporated into the proposal for a law, which most of which I agree with. However, measures such as excluding clawback-supported roofs because they have budgetary consequences need to be studied and we need to know what they are about and all the details. It is therefore reasonable to exclude disability benefit from the contribution of social solidarity. Overall, what is being proposed by the Members of the Democratic Alliance is largely fair and with a strong social context. I cannot, of course, stress the irony of the whole situation. In other words, we are listening to the proposals of the Democratic Partnership on how we will help Greeks who have been destroyed by the political choices of all governments, including the PASOK governments who had the country's governance in a large part of the Migration. Every month another PASOK Minister is revealed to be in the eye of justice. We all know that much of the responsibility we are in today has PASOK, both in total for the policies that followed, as well as for the staff for the officials and ministers who handled power and ended up in felony charges. We are talking about the party that even his own financial data have not been able to control and which owes millions of loans to him without guarantees to the banks and to the detriment of the Greek people who have paid and paid the recapitalisations of the banking institutions. It is funny, at the very least, that the PASOK inspired us to propose measures to alleviate people who are on the poverty line, the PASOK which started the rapid cuts in pensions and wages to now propose guaranteed social income. You know what, gentlemen? To poverty our fellow citizens have arrived because of your own policies and of course they are not expected to be saved by the people who have poored them. Do not be delusional that the people will forget everything they have lived and that they will give forgiveness to those who brought us into this situation, even by digging up all those who have remembered, such as Papandreou and all of them from the deadly bodies. The people don't forget what they did. Obviously the Greek people know very well that the solution is not to trust the same people again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mrs. Big Housekeeper. The President of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Independence of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Fofi Gennimata has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today, after a year and a half of its statement, we are discussing the proposal for a law of the Democratic Alliance on guaranteed social income and the strengthening of social protection and integration. This fits what we call 'good slower than never'. We do not have any illusions about this delay, because we now know you. What matters, however, is that our proposal and our pressure forced you, even late, to vote on the social income of solidarity. At least recognize that. The question is: How many is it true about the beneficiaries who have received it to date and what amount has it been made available? Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate coincides with the climax of the critical public debt issue for its necessary restructuring and impairment. The government and Mr. Tsipras personally pointed out from autumn to a few days ago that there would be a solution to the debt and a clear way to deal with it. No one is aware of this necessity. Indeed, as the debt solution moves, so much as the country is caught up in objectives for unbearable primary surpluses for many years, the development perspective is being undermined, exterminated measures are being taken for Greek households and businesses. I would remind you that just a few days ago the government majority in Parliament voted for new austerity measures of EUR 4.5 billion. At the same time, the commitments for the high primary surpluses are blocking the country in the constant austerity, I fear, even our grandchildren. Indeed, they are threatening by social explosions, but also by restoring the risk of Grexit at the forefront. In short, you gave it all up and you didn't get anything. I would like to stress here in order to make it clear that Mr Tsipras and his government have agreed to all this and agreed on the timetables. What about debt? Nothing at all so far. Only ‘if’ and ‘if’. And he doesn't convince anyone when he's whispering that measures may not be implemented. That's the complete self-determination. Nowhere in the agreed terms is such a heresy clause. Who are they finally laughing at? On this major issue, unfortunately, the government is responding with complete confusion, with conflicting statements by ministers and officials, with funny leaks and false interlocutors once again and statements of party inspiration and consumption that no one is convinced of anymore. You've all been heard, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA - ANEL. But that's as far as it goes. The question of public debt must be given a substantial and sustainable solution. But it needs an integrated management strategy, a strategy that the government has proved to have not. Today, as things have so far, what the country can claim is the implementation of the 2012 Eurogroup decision, which included forecasts for lower debt levels in the medium term, smoothing the current financial hill by 2020 and relaxing its funding. Let me remind you, in order to understand this necessity, that the interest on the loans to be paid for only the year 2022 is 18 billion, compared with 5.5 billion this year. An obligation to which no one at the moment knows how we can cope with today's data. These are the same years until 2026. If, therefore, there is no restructuring and the significant time-limit for their repayment, we will have to make such high primary surpluses that will literally drown the economy and the citizens. Of course it is necessary to decide on the return of the profits of Greek bonds, because I would remind you that by decision of this government, 6 billion European bankers were spared in 2015. We, on the basis of our debts towards the country, are striving to make constant efforts to help European socialists to find solutions and to address this unacceptable obsession with Mr Siomple and the other conservative circles in Europe. But the government has shown that it cannot make use of these efforts either. We have said so and we repeat it. The sooner this government leaves, the better for the place. And they must finally leave the fairy tales of understanding and dialogue in 'and five'. Now that they're with their backs on the wall, they're looking for accomplices for their failure. But, to be clear, I would like to reiterate once again how many problems of this kind will be faced by another government tomorrow if it does not express the vast majority of the Greek people. Only such a government will strengthen the country's credibility, move on to the necessary progressive reforms and be able to negotiate reliably with partners to achieve both debt and primary surpluses. Because, therefore, SYRIZA and New Democracy refuse to reach agreement and prefer polarization because they think that is how they hold forces to low bipartisanism, our position is perfectly clear. We are calling for a change in political relations today in society, tomorrow in the House, with the decisive reinforcement of the Democratic Partnership, to finally promote understanding, to implement a national line for the place that will definitively lead to the exit of the crisis and the memoranda. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Ladies and gentlemen, coming back to today's subject, I shall begin with one more observation. The government majority of SYRIZA - ANELs, in words more or less, admits that it is destroying the middle class, but sins to protect the poorest. That's what they tell us. But are words related to actions? And I directly ask the Ministers: does the low pensioners be burdened with the savage cut in CSR and the increase in health contributions to pensions at the same time cumulatively? Does it, or does it not, affect low-wage and low-retirement workers again? Is the financially weaker the drastic reduction of the beneficiaries of the heating allowance? Does it or does it not affect ordinary citizens the dissolution of the current situation in hospitals and the deterioration of public education? Does the 'new way', in introductory terms, mean that Mr Katrugalos' pensions are calculated? Do they charge, or not, the 260 million to be deducted from widow's pensions? Does the dramatic increase in the contributions for freelance professionals, who are struggling to do so every day with this situation in the economy that you have created? It imposes, yes or no, the financially weak, the abolition of tax exemptions on medical expenses and - listen! - the abolition of four social benefits relating to poor families and unemployed persons, on the pretext that these are allegedly incorporated into the social income of solidarity? And finally, is it threatening, yes or no, the economically weakest, the liberalisation of the first home auctions you have concluded after 31-12-2017? I could carry on with many other cases this list of misery and desperation. But you do not need to, because the citizens of all this live on their feet every day, and they will give you a very tough answer to the next elections whenever they do. I would just like to ask: is it true that you will bring legislative provisions, and indeed, as it may be, with amendments to the bells, the question of reintroduction of collective agreements, which, based on Law 4024, should have already been done, but of course, they also freeze pensions for too many years? If so, I have only one comment: you will not escape the bitter glass of the condemnation of the Greek people. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] I would remind you, of course, that you had lifted the countermeasure bubble high. She's out too! Ladies and gentlemen, it is time for a radical change of policy that will give again hope, real this time and perspective to Greek women and Greeks and especially to the new generation. Our prolongation, the Democratic Alliance, deals with a policy based on the production of new wealth - yes, above all - by linking it inextricably to its fair distribution in order to achieve the objective of social justice. And don't listen here now to comments about the social state being destroyed by PASOK, because PASOK created the social state. Quite simply, there was nothing before the democratic party. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] And we may always look forward to the future, but at last, we can't rewrite the story in this place, as it suits some people in this Chamber. We are therefore aiming to provide quality public goods to all citizens, but also to prioritise support with targeted policies of weak social groups to ensure social cohesion. We are interested in giving equal opportunities to everyone and in taking measures to tackle poverty that lead to a desperate lot of the population today, measures that will constitute a dividend of development for the weak and not the result of exterminated overtaxation that undermines the transition to a stable development path. We are interested, ladies and gentlemen, in the millions of missing Greeks at the moment by a government which only cares about keeping its seat in its chair and prolonging its stay in power. As a small, perhaps, but a decisive step in this direction in the circumstances of the crisis, we have tabled the proposal for a law that we are debating today. It is a good thing that, even with two years' delay, you have accepted the implementation of our proposal on social solidarity, which was put in place at the initiative of the then State Secretary Vassilis Kegeroglu and was implemented at the beginning pilots. But you have shrunk it, and you must restore it, because an integrated social protection net must not only be confined to the grant support of beneficiaries, but also ensure that it is made more accessible to both social services and fundamental goods, as well as the integration or reintegration into the labour market. Because the ultimate aim of any such policy is not just temporary support, but essential help to finally stand on their feet. Our proposal still includes: First, to ensure the protection of first residence for those who fall under Law 3869/2010. Secondly, the reintroduction to EUR 1,500 of the irreconcilable account and the protection of privileged and handicapped allowances and any form of aid or financial assistance granted to vulnerable groups or citizens affected by natural disasters, as well as the compensation paid to farmers under the ELGA and PES regulations. Thirdly, additional staffing of JEPs to support social protection actions. Fourthly, the recovery and integration of Kykjama in the social welfare centres of all the geographical regions of the country. Fifthly, the exclusion of the disability allowance from the income limit taken into account for the imposition of the social solidarity contribution. Sixth, support for roofs of supported life, with the exception of hospitals from clawback and rebate applied by EEAS. And, seventhly, the reduction of VAT on products available for sale by the mentally disabled education and employment departments and, in general, by the laboratories of people with disabilities in the context of the creative employment of our fellow people. Alas, if these cannot be accepted. The last three with the amendment tabled by our rapporteur, Mrs Christophilopoulou. Ladies and gentlemen, very good words have been heard about this proposal in the context of the dialogue in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, but in words the citizens have been celebrated. It is time for actions and action to accept our proposal. Here's Rhodes! And don't forget, the excess of the primary surplus of 2016, achieved by wild overtaxation of businesses and households, which according to your own agreement in the third memorandum can be distributed as a social dividend, reaches 1.9 billion euros. With only one part of this amount you could well finance all the measures we are proposing, but also implement policies to recruit two hundred thousand unemployed in the private sector, by subsidising contributions to social security, reducing VAT rates on wine and on focusing and strengthening family support policies. You have, however, decided to consume the whole amount of money to pay for it. Why? Because you just delayed the evaluation and you're in it with the back wall. Gentlemen of the government, we expect a concrete answer. Clear words. Yes or no to our proposals. And a commitment from us. We shall, in any case, insist on their implementation and implementation, and we shall insist on our proposals for legislative and regulatory interventions in support of the multitude and third family, once Parliament has accepted our proposal for the intergroup on demographics. Social policy, ladies and gentlemen, for us, cannot be an election slogan, but a stable and lasting guide to our actions, our decisions and our policies, whatever position we have, from whatever time we are placed by our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, forty-three students and students and three educational attendants from the 8th Elementary School of Patras and from the Elementary School of Perahas Corinthias. We welcome you to the Greek Parliament, dear friends! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister for Health, Mr Andreas Xanthos, has asked for the floor. Minister, you have the floor for nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u102	Mr President, when will Mrs Deputy Minister speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u103	In the end, to listen to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u104	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u105	"Without delusion above all," Manolis Anagnostakis said. Without delusion, therefore, on the situation in the country and on the situation in Europe, on the difficulties, on the problems, on the possibilities, but unfortunately without delusion, on the political maturity and responsibility of counter-population. In fact, it is a question of wondering how the opposition of this country at this critical moment can today, on the razor edge in fact, be brought to an end to the great lack of accountability regarding the assessment and sustainability of the debt to say that it is asking for elections here and now to leave this irresponsible government. And we are talking about a government that, in the most fluid period for Europe, has managed to make the Greek issue a divisive part of Europe's political forces so that the political forces are separated and on the basis of their attitude to the legitimate demands of the Greek Government and of the Greek society to finally take on its obligations. And these political forces that are in the wider progressive space, the left-wing forces, the forces of radical social democracy, ecology, the powers of the movements and progressive citizens of Europe are with the Greek Government, while the powers of the most extreme neoliberal conservative bloc, the forces that serve the elites of Europe, the forces that are with the banking and bureaucracy of Brussels, these political forces, including the political forces of counter-population of our country, are against the interests of the country and against the efforts that it makes to stand with dignity and equality within Europe in the next period. So Europe is at a critical crossroads. Especially after Brexit there is a tough dilemma: whether it will be re-established on the basis of the conservative values of parity, solidarity, social cohesion and democracy, or in an even tougher and antisocial direction, and it will be dispersed. And let me say that this two-year government has left a very distinct print and has helped to strengthen the pain, the social and the politicians in Europe who are today claiming another course. And this is a very great reserve for the interests of our country and our people. And at the heart of this different path, it is obviously the treatment of social inequalities and the consolidation of the welfare state, the strengthening of the social acquis, the post-war social acquis of Europe. This is where we come in today's debate. Obviously, the debate on poverty in a country that is in protracted austerity and crisis seven years is timely and truly reflects a grim reality that society experiences. So welcoming the initiative to discuss the social income of solidarity, the minimum guaranteed income, as the Democratic Alliance says, or other aspects of measures to tackle poverty in the country. Welcome is the next holiday - let me say - sensitivity to certain political forces who have so far been facing poverty as a side loss of a good system, which was working, which produced wealth, which facilitated competition, the market, entrepreneurship, but also had some 'losers'. That's how the poor were in the years of prosperity. Because there were also poor people and there were also excluded in the years of prosperity. And the drama, ladies and gentlemen, of PASOK is that, of course, the PASOK of the 1980s was the one that put its seal on coming to Greece with historical delay and a public health system and a social protection system more developed, but it is this party, which turned this system into social protection and public health and general social welfare into a mechanism of customer ruptured and favourable use, precisely for reasons of power, precisely for decades to remain in power. And he has the courage now to give up this government for carpality and authority. We, therefore, in the context of extreme poverty and exclusion, ladies and gentlemen, have given examples of writing and with Law No.4320, the first law passed by this government, which has put the humanitarian crisis in the public debate and in the political agenda in this country, and has taken steps to tackle extreme poverty and the most vulnerable and weak sections, which have until then only been the subject of compassion and charity and of social sensitivity. He made that a policy. And that was not, as we have said before, because we are more sensitive and more altruistic. Our big difference is that we believe in people's equality and we have in our DNA, in our political culture, in our racing path all the idea of social solidarity. And we have served and contributed to the initiatives of the diversity that have developed over the years of the crisis in this country. And it's time for us to make that a policy. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to say that in the health field it is this government that has faced extreme health poverty, this terrible side effect which has taken place in the years of the insecurity of the population and the exclusion of uninsured citizens from the health system. It is this government, which, by mobilising all available forces and resources of the health system, emphasised public care and with L.4368/2016 ensured citizens' universal access to the public health system and the necessary medical care. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, allow me a little more. This is a huge incision, it is a great change in culture for the social state in Greece. This government has made the concept of universality rather than selectivity in the provision of services and in practice has applied the logic that health is specifically a social right, which the state must ensure to everyone, inclusively, regardless of the labour, income and insurance situation of everyone. This is a huge incision. He has international recognition. A few days ago, the Minister for Health of the country participated in the General Assembly of the World Health Organisation, where Greece presented its experience of implementing a universal health policy with three other countries from around the world, colleagues: China, Chile and Côte d'Ivoire. Greece is the only country that represented Europe and which the World Health Organization has chosen to carry out a huge social and political experience of universal coverage of the population, which is the project of the World Organisation. These, then, ladies and gentlemen, are not air words. In fact, it is important to wonder about criticisms of the type "the hospitals have been dissolved in the country", when with multiple employment aid relationships with human resources over seven and a half has been covered by eight thousand vacancies in public hospitals in the previous period, during the period of complete deorganisation, during the period of shrinkage, during the period of removal of organic posts, during the closure of hospitals, during the period of removal of organic beds in the health system. We managed to mobilise an additional EUR 626 million in the mid-term programme to enhance the operational costs of the health system. And that, of course, didn't because we found a way to make more money. It was a political choice for redistribution, social redistribution, for public care. There have obviously been cuts in other agencies and other ministries, so that this sector can be supported as a priority. Today I think that the demand is that we should be able, by normalising the functioning of the economy, society and the country in the next period, by measuring austerity, by creating a more financial space for social policy, to meet more social needs, which, in fact, have emerged in a stronger form during the crisis. To be able to cover modern social rights, such as the right to family care, the function of nursery stations, support for the housing needs of young couples, primary care, housing needs, with special structures, vulnerable and vulnerable parts of the population, such as mental patients, dependents, people with dementia, people with end-stage malignancies, people with autism. These are the modern social needs for the social state of this country, for which there is a great effort today, a huge effort to get back on track, without the distortions and atrocities of the past, moralizing the functioning of an area of public life in which we know very well that there was viciousness in the past, that there was a party that had political immunity. We've been through this too many times.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u106	Minister, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u107	I shall conclude, Mr President. And we must also face the major risk factors for social cohesion, which is old age, which is disease, which is unemployment, which is poverty, which is social exclusion, which is homelessness, which is drug addiction. So these are the proposals for a serious reorganization of the social state in our country. We, both in the country and in Europe, are giving examples of writing, and we are strengthening the stigma for how things should be taken. Of course, we are concerned, we are concerned, about the difficulty of society, about the grim reality of the citizens. We're in touch with their struggles and agony and their everyday life. But let me say that we are proud, because at a time when we have compromises, we have painful choices - which are derivatives of a compromise we made two years ago, in the summer of 2015, and which we believe will end and there will be a period of regularity and social visibility for exiting the crisis in the next period - we are, at a time of great difficulty, giving signals and fingerprints of social optimism, in favour of weak, active poverty in the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u109	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u110	What do you want, Mr. Loverdo?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u111	Before I take the floor in my turn, as you have set it, I would like a minute's reaction to something that the Minister said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u112	Please, but just for a minute, we'll not ruin the show, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u113	Yes, Mr. President. Listen, Minister. Social policy issues are not sought in people's or politicians' DNAs. And what you all say in the Ministers for Social Responsibility, people listen to them with great distrust - do not tell you how they hear them - because they have two and a half years. Instead of telling you a lot about what you are saying - some I will comment on in my speech - I want now in the one minute I have to read you a phrase and ask you to recognize the one who said it in this Chamber: 'I could not imagine how politicians and not technocrats could not understand that after the five catastrophic years of the cruel austerity of the memorandum austerity a Greek MEP could be found to vote for the abolition of the CSCE'. Alexis Tsipras, the Prime Minister, said it on June 5, 2015. You abolished it by law, by the vote of all of you. Minister, a little modesty doesn't hurt.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u114	Mr President, can I just say a sentence?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u115	Minister, this dialogue is not going to take place.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u116	The ministers always talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u117	No, it's not like that, I'm sorry. The Minister, despite the fact that he was not prepared to deal with the matter, - you, Mrs Fotou, will be today the representative of government policy - took the floor for nine minutes and spoke for sixteen. That's enough. What can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u118	Let me answer you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u119	What can you tell me?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u120	It's something you don't know. The Minister has provisions in this bill, and that's what he's talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u121	What does that matter? It's not defined, Miss Fotio.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u122	The ministers always talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u123	The Minister had the tolerance of the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u124	Mr. Loverdos intervened out of procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u125	Please, you haven't taken the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u126	They're talking, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u127	The Bureau, out of respect for both the government staff and Mr Blonde, gave him the floor - and he did well - to speak. It's over time. There will now be no dialogue with Mr Loverdos. So, how's it going to be?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u128	Mr President, what I hear is unprecedented. It's a bill for these ministries.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u129	Wait a minute, Mr. President. Don't you give me a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u130	Mr. Mada, would you let me handle the procedure? The other colleagues are waiting. This thing can't be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u131	The Prime Minister didn't say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u132	Mrs. Christophilopoulou, please! Mr Vandemeulebroucke, you have the floor for a minute by concession so that the dialogue does not take place in this way.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u133	Mr. Loverdo, as far as the answer to social sensitivity and DNA is concerned, I meant political DNA and not human DNA, obviously not human genome. That's exactly what I wanted to say. The question of social sensitivity is not a personal matter for everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u134	We agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u135	It is not a matter of cultivation, it is not a question of altruism and humanism. It's a political matter. That's exactly what I'm trying to say. And I told you about works. I didn't say words. I said what has happened in critical areas of social exclusion that have been tackled in the most difficult period of the country during the disaster. And I said how the extremes of poverty and, in particular, health poverty were dealt with. And I said, well, that's no accident. We're not better people, Mr. Loverdo. We are left and we believe in people's equality. That's the difference. That is why we can implement such policies.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, let me tell you how the process will continue. Mr. Brutsis will speak, Mr. Rabbit follows, and then he's Mr. Loverdos. I tell you from now on that the floor will not be given, at least from me, while I am here in another Parliamentary representative, because no fellow Member has spoken, and they must also speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u137	Ladies and gentlemen, if a third observer, who did not know what things are like in our country, was following the speech of the previous Minister, Mr Xanthos, and we asked him what he saw and what he heard, he would feel that he heard a member of the opposition, who records the government's intentions of how to deal with the economic crisis, about the good intentions he has, about sensitivity to the social groups. You have given this impression, Minister, in your speech. However, if we were to tell this observer that the speaker is a government minister, then he would unviolently say that Greece is a prosperous country, there is no social exclusion, there are no vulnerable social groups and that everything is settled. Unfortunately for you and the Greeks, however, you have been ruling for two and a half years. The alibi of moral advantage and good intentions has been suppressed. Why? There is now the concrete treatment of things, the political practice, the results of your policy, which haunts you and haunts all Greeks. I mean, he's a nerve, and I wonder where you find him? - from the Step of the House to place and move the finger to the Greek society towards the weak social classes, to the political parties in the same way and in the same way and with the same mockery as if it were the first day that you became government. You have two and a half years of government life, you have failed miserably in everything, you have deceived the Greek people, you have mocked the workers, you have mocked the pensioners, you have fooled the weak. You've equalized everything. Every goal you set, you go underneath. You brought two memorials to the Greek people unnecessarily and unfairly. Greece would have come out of the crisis. It would have gone into the virtuous economic cycle of growth. And he pays today the price of SYRIZA's incapacity and populism at all levels. The pensioners of the 310 million who were on the e-mail Hardouvelis for insurance reached 10 billion and, as a result, ladies and gentlemen, it is first historically registered that Greece has no insurance system. It has an insurance structure that condensates on the one hand a class logic that has turned into a toxic poison of excitement contributions for what is most creative in the place, resulting in the self-determination of the system, and on the other, a logic of a pro-innovation system, which soon turns the country's pre-existing insurance system into debris and ruins. So you failed it too. And it is also challenging to say today and to move the finger on the debt to the Antipolist parties when you, the Prime Minister himself ten days ago, to shadow the reactions of SYRIZA MPs under the hard measures of the fourth memorial, said "the famous" about tie and debt. This is SYRIZA. SYRIZA is the party that keeps mocking, he's lying. But unfortunately for you and fortunately for your Greek people, no one believes you anymore. I'm going to the theme of the bill that was filed. Ladies and gentlemen, as Minister for the two and a half years at the Ministry of Labour, I have today to restore the truth, reality and order on the issues of the social state. It's time to look into the eyes. The Greek state was really not the most perfect in terms of social benefits and social structures, it had deficits, it had omissions. The largest deficit in the social state in our country was the absence of the minimum guaranteed income. Our country had resources in relation to the other European countries in terms of GDP, unfortunately, but the money was at sea because there were overlapping, client systems, reasonable directional patterns. That's corrected. I respond to the counterfeiters of history, to the petty souls, because it is a petty thing that is happening today and throughout the previous period not to recognise that the minimum guaranteed income, the greater social reform of the Greek state was carried out by the previous government and that the FEK, which I am tabling to read it. Minimum guaranteed income - I read it because I like to give everyone justice - Minister of Labour Yiannis Vroutz, State Secretary of State Kegeroglou, Minister of Interior Dolios, Finance Hardouvelis - Staikoras. This is the FEK, which has now laid the foundations of the modern social state in Greece, the minimum guaranteed income. I put it to the government to consider it. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Vroutsis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Question: Did everything stop there? No, of course, he wanted to improve and modernise as today's minimum guaranteed income structure wants to improve, we are in the first steps. However, it was done in the most modern way throughout Europe, and this was the positive of our own intervention in the negative context that we were the last because we also incorporated the 'ERGANI', so that we monitor the system more electronically and more efficiently than every country in Europe after a period of time. The results of the minimum guaranteed income should be reassessed as a whole. This should also be done at regular intervals. This must be done by each government in the future, so that the weaknesses and deficits that exist and are detected can never be solved, because nothing perfect can be solved as society and social needs arise, new social data appear, intervention every time the administration, the government and ballot the weaknesses and improve the effectiveness of the system. Today the Greek people must know that, yes, we did what we lacked and there is a minimum guaranteed income in Greece. It was made by the previous government, today it is evolving and will be evolving in the future. But let us see, Mrs Fotio, as a government representative here today, the hypocrisy of SYRIZA on the issue of minimum guaranteed income. I am here, as Minister at the time - ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, to look at these things so that you will never do so in the future and be the example for future generations of politicians - and I read from left.gr: "Feeds of charity with Samara and Venizelos on the minimum guaranteed income for Greece of poverty". [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Vroutsis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You were against the minimum guaranteed income. "HAMA": "Memorandum of mockery the minimum guaranteed income, says the left". That's who you are, hypocrites. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Vroutsis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I also read from the left.gr: "Dimitrias Army: After impoverishing the people now the government gives crumbs of charity". It's SYRIZA, isn't it? Wasn't the Army in charge of social policy at SYRIZA? Here's what your position was for the minimum guaranteed income was. That's why you had to apologize. But, we are not the same, we have completely different political behaviour, political morality, superiority. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Vroutsis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And we say that, yes, other improvements must be made in the future, we must upgrade them, we must make them better. I would also like to make a reference to the social state in our country in general, to make things clear. In addition to the minimum guaranteed income, which is indeed the biggest social reform of the Greek state, were there other structures, institutions, anchorages for the social state? Of course they were. It was not born today - by virginity - that SYRIZA would come to build the social state.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u138	Tell us about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u139	I'll tell you, Mrs. Fotio, don't rush. So listen. Was the JEPs not a structure built by a previous government, which was in the right direction, which generally served the service of the weak social groups and vulnerable groups and also faced bureaucracy? Of course, the JEPs. Are you coming today to say what, that there were no JEPs? Or tidy up the past? I would like to say the same thing about the CEECs, for example. There were from you, an antagonist of the social state. Social tourism, which existed before, was abandoned, came back from the previous government of Samaras, a large section in favour of the weak, the unemployed and the workers. The CSDPs, which I inherited, and I remember that in my speech on the CIPA as Minister, in the programming statements I had answered a question about whether we will continue with the CIPA, saying that it is a useful, beneficial institution for the disabled, for vulnerable social groups, but which wants to improve. And we did improve it, and we went further than that. And here comes a question. Do you remember the criticism you made of the social groups that went through the CEECs, supposedly - and were unnecessarily - going into a suffering? Other questions were asked by SYRIZA. The previous government, ladies and gentlemen, did everything in its power: we passed the forty-six permanent diseases, for the first time, which did not need to be reviewed by the CSR. It needed intervention for a few more, fair ones, but it could not be done in the previous period and you had to go ahead with it. I ask: did SYRIZA, after the forty-six permanent diseases even have a permanent disease that does not need to be reopened by the CSR? Not even one! I move to A21, the famous family allowances, which were a structural cut for the social state, the one which for the first time gave the most transparent allowance for both the first and the second child. Why are you little? Because when the Prime Minister comes here and says he's going to give an allowance for the first time to the first and the second child can't fix him to tell him that you found this ready? Why? Isn't that micropsy? Isn't this SYRIZA's hypocrisy? You tell me, on the basis of the social state, what did you offer? On the rails of that particular social state and its structures you came and gave reform of resources! Even the hypocritical coverage of uninsured persons isn't hypocrisy? Isn't it a counterfeiting of history when you know that from the previous government, signed by Adoni Georgiadis and Maki Voridis, was it possible for the first time for uninsured people to go to hospitals without paying anything? While you play this secret of hypocrisy to know that the world understands it, your evil, but in any case do not hurt the Greek people anymore, because you will eventually find them in front of you, but we will find them very soon and we will fix them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u140	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. My colleague, Mr. Rabbit, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Mr President. We are talking here today, in Parliament's Chamber, about some measures proposed by the PASOK, the Democratic Alliance as it is now called, because it changes the names to forget what it has done in the past. He proposes some measures, he says, to improve the living conditions of Greek citizens. The issue - in Parliament's Chamber and in life in general - is that those who propose measures to improve the lives of our fellow citizens are in opposition. When they are in opposition they propose, but when they are government for forty-five years, they either co-govern or govern themselves, there they do not think of all this and there they take other measures, which lead to the impoverishment of the Greek people. It is therefore worth wondering how those who have arrived in Greece at this point, how those who arrived at this sad point at which they are now coming to propose solutions to improve the lives of our fellow citizens. Really, what were you doing as a government? As a government, do you know what you've done? The only thing that happened then was to be involved many of your officials and too many of your Members in scandals, in armaments, in hatreds, in a thousand two things that all the Greek people know about. You have reached a point now to change your name, so that you will slowly get rid of your guilty past, which you know very well that you have, and once again make fun of the "nationals" and give them mirrors and beads, because you see the Greek citizen. We're changing name, we're saying a new law proposal to get the Greek to get two hundred and fifty euros a month and we're fine. We're not fine, we're not good at all. You have impoverished our Greek fellow citizens, the New Democracy that you ruled for forty-three years, and now it's also SYRIZA's two-year-old, who from where the memorials would be torn down, from where the ladders and international loan sharks would be dancing, unfortunately we see that they have dragged you from the back, as they want, and they're pulling you out. That's the reality. You want to give crumbs to our Greek fellow citizens, to our compatriots, while selling everything. You who have levelled and sold and you have made the Greek property not to exist in a rich country with minerals, with oil, which you have abolished everything, which you have achieved everything, which you have given everything that does not exist in our country, you come and talk about how the Greek citizen will get more than a hundred euros a month. That is what we are talking about, about 3 and 2.5 euros you want to give them. And you come to a verbal confrontation with the current SYRIZA-ANEL conflict, which said exactly the same when it was in opposition. He blamed you for impoverishing our Greek compatriots and today that they're up there doing exactly the same you did. But you do not say that all the memoranda voted together. You have all voted together on the memorandum, the first and the second and the third. Truly, to tell us PASOK, Democratic Reconstitution or whatever it is called now - you know, plumbers are changing names to have many names and not catch them, so - when you sold out the Greek property for ninety-nine years, what did you vote for? In the spring of 2010, when your then leader and Prime Minister George Papandreou went out to Kastelorizo and said that Greece was entering the regime of monuments and full surveillance, leveling out all Greek citizens, what did PASOK then do? What did your members and MPs, who were submissive at that time, and who are submissive - and who come today to show us that they are interested in the Greek citizen? Where were the PASOK MPs and executives? And if, after all, you want to help our Greek fellow citizens and the Greek state, you can easily do so. Do you know how, gentlemen of PASOK? By finding the stolen business taken by the competitors, your comrades for so many years, these cases that you have covered with the equipment, with Chohatzopoulos, with Papantoniou, with the other Papantoniou scandal that some want to forget about, but it's not forgotten, for the Stock Exchange with Prime Minister Simitis, who had all the Greeks gamble on the Stock Exchange and then stole the money in one night. That's where the scandals are and that's where the money is! So, you could, sensitive PASOK gentlemen, find these comrades, get the stolen back, what you have stolen so many years from the Greek people, and yell at the Thodoris Pangalos, who was here and tell us with a tune of a thousand cardinals and enthusiastically that we all had them together. No, Pangale, we didn't all eat together! You ate them with your comrades. There was a large part and a large part of the Greek people who are honest people, who work, who paid contributions and who cannot live in poverty and gratitude because of the stealing of yours. Because you ate them together, not all of the Greek people. Really, where are the sea loans that PASOK owes to the banks? It's about 200 million euros. I repeat: where are the armaments scandals, which of course do not only involve Tsohatzopoulos and Papantoniou, but are others involved? The then Prime Minister of the country, the high priest of interlocutory, is involved, as some people were saying at the time, the Simitis. Only today nobody wants to touch him. So where is all this money? So you, because you like to account for collective responsibility, from what we see, lately. Find them from your comrades. It's too easy. Take off the other 110-120 million, which has been seen in your office, which has been seized somewhere, as our competitor said before, by Vangelis Karakostas. In a drawer, they've disappeared some kind of prosecutor's office, obviously. Let's see all this, get it and give it to the Greek people and so you'll have offered a lot more work than the crumbs you want to give them 100 and 150 euros. Who told you that the Greek people beg to get crumbs? Who told you that the Greek man, who has worked for so many years, who has been implicated in branding, who has maintained the funds of our country, is currently accepting to enter a regime where his money will go for the comfortable living of illegal immigrants who have come into our homeland? Who told you that the Greek retired or Greek worker accepts to be the one to live all those who appeared from Bangladesh, from Pakistan, and I don't know where, without asking anyone and entering our country? Who told you that it is nice and the Greek people agree that every illegal immigrant should have free health, free education, free home stay, free feeding and the Greeks should try to get 50 euros to get through? You now come and dared the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative to say that "we had brought the minimum guaranteed income and therefore are in favour of us". What minimum guaranteed income? Aren't you a little ashamed when you address the Greek people and tell them that they will get 250 and 300 euros? Aren't you ashamed? I ask: which one of you in this Chamber could live with the money you want to give and which you are currently giving to the Greek citizen, whether he is unemployed or retired, or is currently working with half-employ ments that you yourself have established to exist? Who gave you the right to make every Greek look for food in the trash? Who gave you the right to cut off the electricity from every Greek citizen? Who gave you the right? Because if you said that before the election, you'd get 0%. But you're making fun of the Greeks. You've even found suckers, and you're making fun of them. But you can't all take advantage of them saves you. The moment comes when the world understands the reality and will turn the back on this rotten, corrupt political system that you all represent together, all parties, from left to right, except the nationalists of the Golden Dawn. That's your big problem. We see the most enthusiastic MPs and ministers of SYRIZA, we saw a time ago that organized marches outside the port of Piraeus, when it was a mere MP of the opposition, so that the port would not be given, so that the Greek wealth would not be sold out and our country would not be evened. They are organizing marches with some other affliction there to show that they are interested in the port of Piraeus. When he became Minister for his day, with his own signatures, the port of Piraeus was sold out. You're so devastated and so irritated, but this isn't about SYRIZA and ANEL. It is of course also about PASOK and New Democracy, because forty-three years they have learned how to operate. How, really, is the situation when, according to the surveys we see, there are 2.5 to 3 million Greeks who live below the poverty line? And when we say that 2.5 to 3 million people live below the poverty line, that means that there are too many others who live marginally - and that does not involve them - above the poverty line. In other words, if someone gets EUR 610, according to the investigation, they are not at the limit of poverty. He's having a good time. This is the process and you have a small portion of Greeks that you have carved them, some of your convenient submissives, either in public services or after-calls and you constantly increase them, because you know very well, gentlemen of the SYRZA and the ANELs, that they will be your only voters. You have no more voters, and that is why you do not dare go anywhere on the ground. Where you appear there is disapproval and hunting by indignant Greek citizens who are neither fascists nor people have anything personal against you. But they have their frustrations trying to get her off of them. So we have come to live these days. If your sensitivity was to the very least for Greeks as it is for illegal immigrants, the Greek could pass well. However, you are only cut off to be the good children of international markets, of the international loan sharks that all of them want to rule you, and you want to show who is the most submissive. They are the left of SYRIZA, the so-called patriots of ANELs who vote for mosques who vote for a cohabitation agreement and who do what they resist only the government when a bill goes through with the votes of other MPs. They then react and do not vote for the bills brought by their co-pilots. That's the reality. The Golden Dawn will continue to fight and talk about the fairness of the Greek citizen. I repeat once again, to make it very clear that no Greeks beg to give him pocket money. Each Greek asks for and demands what they are and are entitled to. They are entitled by you who have stolen them and it is hard to come themselves now that you are opposition and ask to give some crumbs. So will SYRIZA tomorrow. He's been doing it for so many years, he's been opposition. So I repeat to all of you, find the thieves - their Golden Dawn has named them - find the stolen money, take it from the big-workers, take it from the banks that gave it to you forty years and eat it together and give it to the Greek people. Only then will justice be done. But you, of course you can't, because you're accomplices to all this crime.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague Mr. Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Mr President. I begin with a few references to what Mr Tsipras said. The issue of the days is a topical, serious and important one. He said, "Tolls." It's not selfish, it's acts of resistance. It is decency that citizens do not pay the tolls in the 'I do not pay, I do not pay' movement, a member of the Minister himself today. Acts? Thirty-eight tolls, thirty-eight toll stations put on Egnatia Street. The second issue of the days is a great, much bigger one. The public debt and what they have said as opposition, as a government of Tsipras - Varoufakis, as a government of Tsipras - Tsakalotou and now on April 22, to Mr Hatzinikolaou to the Prime Minister, what he said after the vote on the measures in the House a few days ago, which were words of "little" and which were replaced by ladies and gentlemen, with the phrases we read in the Tsakalotou interviews, on promises that will suffice these days especially in the Eurogroup of 15 June. We are now going to the subject of today's proposal for a law tabled by the Democratic Reconciliation for the EASA. What did the Prime Minister say a few days ago, on the eve of the January 2015 elections? Now - he said - by the great e-mails - he meant Gika Hardouvelis - the others - that is, we want to cut off your ESS, people, and keep it in mind. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following And what else did he say a few months later after he became Prime Minister? The majority Members were upset when I said that. He said: "Since then, I could not imagine how politicians and not technocrats could not understand that after the five catastrophic years of the harsh austerity of the memorandum, a Greek MP could be found to vote for the abolition of the CSCE." On June 5, 2015, Minister. I repeat: These are words of the Prime Minister, from his own tooth, have escaped these words, so that we can remember Homer. Ladies and gentlemen, here as members of the National Representation those who have not slipped into populism, as elected representatives of the Greek people, we have a political duty to speak truths now in these painful years of crisis and to uncover lies and hypocrisy. Here, then, every day with our interventions and today when we discuss the proposal for a law on the EKRD, which you, the friends of the people supposedly reject, we have a duty here to reveal the political abhorism of the Prime Minister and of the hundred and fifty-three of his supporters in this House, who, with their two hands, voted to abolish the EAS. Victims of populism, it has proved history, it is those citizens who are in favour of whom his rhetoric is developing. We have been taught that in political history. The demagogy mainly affects those who are supposed to be protecting. People'sism is an insult, ladies and gentlemen. It's the highest insult. And the populism you served and served, accompanied by the social para-state, that is to say the people of the social area, mainly artists, who today regret what they said and turn them, but who until recently, very recently, sprinkled, slandered, slandered, poisoned the Greek people with hatred. Lagism and social paratrooper until a few months ago. Now let's go see what the government's practice of fifty-three SYRIZA and ANEL and Prime Minister Tsipras and the Ministers with responsibility for social responsibility is. None of them excluded. Non-social policy samples, but typical social analgesia. They promised that they would maintain the ESS and embolden us, because the e-mail Hardouvelis had a paragraph that they said to the people that he was talking about abolishing while he was saying about rationalisation. Who was the emperor? I also address here to anti-population parties who have lifted the finger today, forgetting the recent history of the place. What institution did the Prime Minister say he wanted to support and falsely said that we wanted to abolish? Ladies and gentlemen, the institution of social solidarity, the institution of social policy, the institution of the creation of more medium-sized strata, which established the PASOK with Shelter's Law 2434/1996, which you only have the means to say about him, Article 20, and which has arrived when we handed over the government to New Democracy in 2004, four hundred thousand people. These are four hundred thousand people who created real conditions for their integration into the middle class. That's the ESS. The New Democracy has not abolished it. It has reduced the beneficiaries by about seventy thousand, but it has not been abolished. And he endured, dear lady and gentlemen of the opposition parties, until 2016 this institution. Four years of crisis in our management has not been thought of any of our ministers taunting it. This is the truth, ladies and gentlemen of the counter-population that you have found today, rather than respecting labors and efforts and the time of the acne and time of the country's economic decline. Less words, less insults, more respect for the truth, not for us! And when was that abolished, ladies and gentlemen? By L.4387/2016 the CSCE was abolished – Article 92 – gradually, and in 2019, at the end of the year. End of C.E.S.S.! Is this a sign of social policy of friends of the people or, together with the others you have done, is the proof of the social analgesia of today's majority? Because, ladies and gentlemen, listen to something very characteristic. The Katrugalou law has been offended to the Council of State. For months the Ministry of Labour of the People's Friends, namely the Minister who heads your Ministry, Ms. Fotio, has not sent the Minister's opinion to the Council of State, for the trial to take place. The pensioners' network denounced the Ministry for this paradoxical tactic. That's who you are. It's annoying, too. You have citizens who are complaining about a law of yours, there are court proceedings, the court wants to judge and record the rapporteur of the case that even though the Ministry was ordered twice, he has not sent his views, and the case is postponed. That's who you are. I don't need to make a lot of other references, just a few and titles. Is it a social policy, ladies and gentlemen, to reduce the beneficiaries of widow's pensions? Is social policy a abolition of the husband's family benefits in the main pensions and its complete abolition in subsidiary? Is it a social policy to reduce disability pensions? Is it a social policy to abolish the personal difference? Is it a social policy to reduce the one-off? Is it a social policy to double and triple in some cases of the contributions of the free professionals? It's not. It's evidence of social analgesia. We are making this criticism today, we are doing it, ladies and gentlemen, because we have political leghold traps in relation to the ESS, because we have introduced it and distributed it to four hundred thousand people and we have kept it in the difficult years of the crisis. But also on all the other issues relating to health and social security, we have the pearls of our governments and we have the means of proof in the years of the crisis that we have withstanded the pressure, negotiated and kept what you have been crushed today. Ladies and gentlemen, I am closing. A phrase, my last one. In this place, post-governmentally, as far as the social state is concerned, it has a seal: PASOK. And in the years of the crisis, the recession, as regards the conquest that was held, is the title: "Government of George Papandreou", "Government of Samaras - Venizelos". These are our things. Let us see now what is recorded as yours in two and a half years and what the next time, because with them - you have no doubt - the Greek people will make their comparisons. You are lost by hand, not because you are left-wing, right-wing or whatever - you are both in your government - but because you are liars, demagogues and your things at the level of laws and applications are the worst for social policy and for people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u144	Yes, sir. Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague, Mrs. Merope Jufi, from SYRIZA, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u145	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me, in introductory terms, to make an effort to continue after this bed of constant verbal violence - you will allow me to say - from the amoralistic epilepsies of truth and history, which have ruled both powerfully and resoundingly claim their return, saying that the people have forgotten and 'approached for years again ours will be'. But I am entering my own part of the speech, saying what SYRIZA wanted to do when he took over the rule of this place. Here, to remind under what conditions the governance was undertaken, when the people who did it well had demolished the Gross National Product by 25%, had detonated unemployment from 7% to 27%, they had made eleven-fold continuous pension reductions and launched poverty and child poverty. We were therefore aiming at two directions: on the one hand, the immediate relief of a large part of society from the consequences and policy of previous years on the development process, but, above all, the years of the harsh memorial policies of austerity. On the other hand, we have also had a duty to gradually change and reform a number of state structures and policies that have been created over recent years in the country. So there was an attempt to pass those bills and make those arrangements, which could also give relief to people, who were particularly affected by unemployment and by the Memorandumary Policies. And this was done by planning policies for vulnerable social groups, such as children, the LEADER, which were aimed at first-phase Roma to support them income support in their daily lives and to allow them elementary access to services and goods. Let us see how these basic interventions can be summarised. I just want to remind you: Direct measures to tackle the humanitarian crisis. Let me remind you here that many in this Chamber were talking about unilateral actions. This is a program that started in the spring of 2015 until December 2016, which managed to give a small, but stable, financial allowance to families, a rental allowance, free electricity and water to households. The social income of solidarity, which is the subject of today's debate, has been universally successful in implementing it in all municipalities since January 2017. As has already been said, there are five hundred and fifteen thousand beneficiaries. At the same time, however, these beneficiaries can gain access to and interconnection in supplementary benefits and services such as free medical care, participation in social poverty structures, participation in the ETA programme, child subsidies at nurseries and school meals, social invoices for PPC and water. Most importantly, because this is where the minimum guaranteed income is to be achieved, 10% of the unemployed to enter the labour market with pilot employment programmes prepared or planned by the Ministry. We planned school lunches. Today, a very big debate is taking place in Britain, precisely because the candidate Prime Minister, Mrs May, intends to abolish them. And I say this because these programmes, which are aimed at tackling malnutrition, have been very critical of changing the model of school nutrition, have become very bleak. In fact, this programme is a programme for which we are proud and which we intend to continue. As far as the community centres are concerned, it has been said here that they will be supported. We really hope that this will be done so that it is the local contact and information units for social protection policies. In fact, we have legislated people who can be there on ASP criteria. We're trying to collect family allowances to an agency in the OGA. There was a great deal of consultation there so that disability benefits could also be granted. The free movement of unemployed in public transport has been ensured. Measures have been taken to take care of the homeless. A special secretariat for the social inclusion of the Roma has been established. The paradox of the CSR for uninsured persons has been abolished and a very great effort is being made to address unaccompanied refugees. In addition, there have been institutional changes that have been initiated. Because here we have heard a lot about people with disabilities. Let me say that there is a bill aimed at reforming the institutional framework for disability, including the United Nations International Convention and the Protocol on Human Rights with Disabilities. While a great deal of effort is being made to change the way disability is certified through the certification centres, so that the suffering and opaque procedures followed are actually reduced. The bill on adoption and assumption is ready to change and have a matter of decoupling and decoupling children and infants who are in institutions and in children's protection centres so that there are common rules and procedures that change the framework in this very vulnerable and sensitive group. I will say here because I do not have time to do so, because I have almost completed my speech, that even where we were called upon to take very difficult measures, we have made sure that there are significant countermeasures in the area of social protection, such as the increase in family allowances for the first and second children, the grant of the rent, the inclusion of 1/3 of infants up to four years in nursery schools, as well as the extension of school meals to cover 50% of pupils in primary and high schools. So from this agonizing effort to say what we tried to do. I think, while it appears - with many difficulties - by insisting on measures to support vulnerable groups and programmes already planned or implemented with regard to our printing and support in this sensitive area of social protection. Therefore, despite the unfavourable political and budgetary environment and the previous catastrophic policies, which led to the total depopulation of the social state's infrastructure through deterioration, shrinking, downgrading, fragmenting public and European money, we did not hear anything about it as self-critic of those who were here at the Step. We are doing our utmost to the benefit of all those people who need them. In addition, we still continue to integrate, as I have said before, as many actions as we can with the prospect of permanent state interventions and strengthening public bodies providing social care and protection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u147	Mr President, I would like to ask the PASOK colleagues to be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u148	Mr. Mada, this is happening too. It's okay. Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u149	Mr President, before I come to the agenda, which has been raised by the Democratic Alliance with the proposal for a law that we have tabled, I would like to address you on behalf of the Bureau of Parliament to raise a question of democratic order in plenary, which we have raised earlier at the Conference of Presidents. As, ladies and gentlemen, to our great surprise, I imagine yours too, unless you are used to it now, we have learned that the 'plus memorial' of the fourth memorandum will come here tomorrow with an amendment, says, in a contract ratification, which was scheduled to be discussed next week. And the convention will come to plenary tomorrow with legislative work and will enter the fourth 'plus memorial', so that we can become resilient in all the countries involved in this convention. And I would like, in addition to the complaint, to remind the House that my language has haired to call on the government on the basis of the question we have tabled with Mr Kegeroglu by asking the Government what is the hundreds of forty prerequisites and does not tell us and does not answer the House. I should like to denounce that these prerequisites, which the House does not know, may be known by the SYRIZA's Political Secretariat and the SYRIZA Members, who informs them, are the ones that force the government to take this legislative initiative, because they will meet tomorrow the Euro-working Group and we have the Eurogroup next week on the 15th of the month. Our appeal to the government is, at least, those prerequisites relating to the limitation of pensions, certain matters of employment relations and others that we do not yet know to come under the normal legislative procedure, so that each Member may have the right to speak and be placed in plenary. And I don't just mean those "willing men", those who anyway vote for what the government brings here. That was my comment on the subject raised, Mr President, just now at the Conference of Presidents. I now come to our initiative. We are legitimate as a Democratic Incorporation, because we have shown our sensitivity, to bring this proposal here, which has the element of enlargement and the completion of the programme of social solidarity. We are legitimate because we are the ones who piloted it. Our rapporteur, as well as Mrs Gennimata and Mr. Loverdos, told them. We are legitimate, since we have resisted the reduction of social benefits throughout the third and fourth quarters of the SYRIZA - ANEL, to have proposed to protect the weak. And we are also legitimate for one reason above, because for us, the policy of social solidarity is not linked to the poverty of the middle-class, which is systematically made by the SYRIZA - ANEL policy, but is a component of a progressive policy aimed at growth, the creation of wealth, which is supported by ladies and gentlemen, by the productive forces of the country, whose body is the small and medium-sized enterprises and the middle-sized one. And it would have been a long way to make a historical retrograde, but the present one, Mr. Fotios, has used us to other locations to talk about the Fresh books he received. So, let me remind Members of SYRIZA that it was the PASOK policy in the 1980s that abolished the Freudian booklets and the philosophical politics of these "great" leaders and created institutions of social protection and solidarity. Let us just think that in 1982, half of Greece was uninsured and PASOK extended social security throughout Greece, that there were no protection institutions or the over-agers - we created them with the CAP - nor the care of the whole family, which was also created by a series of institutions, such as the protection of a number of other vulnerable social groups, which was done with home care and so on. However, even during the modernization period of the country, when the country took over the major goals and joined EMU, PASOK continued social policy. It is characteristic that the EPC which you have abolished and which we have protected, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, even during the time of the crisis, when we have had to manage twice as much debt and deficit of 35 billion on an annual basis as the previous government of Kostas Karamanlis has inherited us. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] In all three periods, therefore, during the early period of major changes and reversals in the 1980s, during the modernization of the country in the 1990s and the period of crisis, we have shown a sign of writing on social protection. And we will not accept from the various fascists and those who use the same phrase and give the fascists the reason that we, who have destroyed the place, are not entitled to speak. History has been recorded and will not be re-written, no matter how much some are trying to smash a big progressive party that made these big changes in the country and make political careers to divide people with hatred and poison. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, in order to close the time available to me, the proposals that we have put forward in detail to strengthen the social policy framework, with the protection of first residence, with the EUR 1,500 non-binding account, with the staffing of JEPs to support social policy programmes, with the reintroduction of CEECs, with the exception of the contribution of social solidarity with disability benefits, with the reduction of VAT on those who employ creative people with disabilities are concrete proposals and are a challenge to the government and the government by a majority. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Mr Koutsouko, Member of the Democratic Alliance. Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there has been a lot of talk today about the left-wing monopoly, about the social state for the first time where there has been nothing until first, it is assumed that equality is nothing but darkness and statements of compassion. Even for Thomas Mann I heard, who, he says, had written a book just before SYRIZA came to power. Of course, the "Magic Mountain" was written in 1924, long before SYRIZA came to power and I'm sure not with SYRIZA in mind! In any case, I think it is time to say some truths that reflect reality. I am of course not in favour of the theory that if facts are different from reality, the worst for reality. After two and a half years of governance of the country by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, the fact is that poverty has been widened and the famous equality, which Mr Xanthos has said, tends to take on equality characteristics in poverty now and universalisation downwards. This is the reality, as a result of overall policies and not just of the targeted policies that have to do with the social state. Are all the other fighters of the social state? Let us see what has been done so far, at least in recent years, when the crisis has given a very dramatic dimension to the need at last to draw up an organised plan for the social state. You will allow me to read some excerpts from Professor Amitsi's book entitled "Meditarist initiatives to safeguard social cohesion in the time of the memorials", to remember some things that were done, which were not announced but done. In January 2013, he started at the Ministry of Labour, Social Security - and Welfare at that time - a process of planning a new model of active integration policies. I would remind you that active social inclusion policies in contrast to passive policies, which are the most subsidised policies, have to do with income support for beneficiaries, who are people living in extreme poverty, but also in a second and third phase of their integration into the employment market and the creation of opportunities for them to access social and welfare services. Therefore, here and here the minimum guaranteed income presupposes, in addition to the first phase, that of income support and the second phase, which is the essential social inclusion of beneficiaries in the employment market. You know that sometimes it is more important and more beneficial not to give to the starving one but to teach him to fish, so that he also has a choice of fish that will be offered to him but also an opportunity to define himself - to a satisfactory degree, I think - his destiny and the treatment of his hunger. So, as I said, in January 2013, this initiative was launched by the Ministry of Employment, where I was then a State Secretary for Welfare and Social Protection. I would remind you that that convergence initiative was not within the scope of the government's programme agreement of national responsibility with the support of the three parties. It was out, as it was outside the Memorandum Obligations. The minimum guaranteed income at that time was in the form of a pilot project, joining the medium-term vote in October - November 2012, in order to fill this gap in Greece, which was then one of the two states of the European Union, which had not implemented, a programme of income support for those living in extreme poverty, that is, the minimum guaranteed income. I read: 'A basic tool for documenting the national social inclusion strategy, as the result of the Green Paper, which was the first text of basic principles leading to the implementation of applied social inclusion policies, was first chosen in the history of the Greek social security system.' This was the Green Paper on the National Social Integration Strategy. It would substantiate the feasibility and necessity of adopting sustainable strategic options to develop an integrated policy to prevent and combat exclusion and to introduce new social intervention programmes. At the same time, the Green Paper would provide an integrated set of suggestions on the potential for national and supranational resources to be used in connection with the development of the national social inclusion strategy. I read: "The Green Paper was tabled in September 2013 by the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Welfare in the General Secretariat for Government Coordination. He was completed in July 2013 and was then handed over to the new political leadership of the Ministry, a member of which was Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou. There was something about me, which was also a substantial difference. Instead of adopting the model of public consultation of the Green Paper, as recommended by the group of experts drafted by it, an internal consultation procedure was adopted between central government bodies exercising responsibility in the field of social inclusion. In other words, it has not been made public in society and in the civil society and in the services concerned with social welfare and social inclusion, the principle of a very important strategic planning. And it remained, I would say, interna corporis of the relevant services and bodies in the field of social inclusion. As a result, the guidelines text and the annexes to the Green Paper were never given by the relevant Ministry of Labour to publicity and were not the subject of political, social and scientific dialogue. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] However, the conclusions of the Green Paper were sent from the Ministry to the representatives of the institutions. And what are these findings? They are very important and I think it is useful for anyone who wants to continue working on this national social inclusion strategy, which is the coherent plan that the country must have, not fragmentary interventions, not resource-sharing, not irrational allocation of funds in relation to the many and growing needs. The Green Paper had spoken of selective interventions, a lack of targeted security network, a lack of rational provision of insurance and welfare benefits, organisational and administrative distortions, weaknesses in funding social inclusion policies, inability to find additional international funding resources, such as the EEA financial mechanism, the European Economic Area, which could provide additional resources to meet needs in the field. All this, however, ladies and gentlemen, to finish and try and remain essential, it is still essential that it be done. It needs a plan. I want to believe that no one's intentions are questioned. We all want to support the socially vulnerable. Of course, others are developing their efforts more in, I would say, communications-type interventions and more in substantial interventions. Above all, however, a national plan is needed. And the evil is or, rather, the pity is that the core of this national plan exists and has been prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u152	Finish your thoughts.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u153	Thank you for your tolerance, Mr President, and I shall end. The Green Paper was the basic draft of the guiding principles. From that point on, the national social integration strategy has emerged. Social guaranteed income as an income support policy for extreme poverty is only a part of this overall plan. So let all the political forces of the country finally agree that this national plan is needed and let us launch a substantial public and universal dialogue, so that the country can finally have the project, so that as much needs as possible are met from rationally distributed resources that will cover it. That's what it takes. Good intentions exist. He needs the plan. There's the plan. Let's get out front. Let us overcome our inhibitions from political controversy, which often attracts extreme character - I would say - and let us agree on this. From that point on, everything can start and work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u154	Thank you. Parliamentary spokesman from the Association of Centres, Mr Anastasios Megalamoustakas, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u155	Mr President, Mr Minister, I begin my speech by saying that I am no longer surprised that a proposal for a law, tabled 15 months ago, comes today either for debate or for debate a few minutes ago at the Conference of Presidents, since you are actually bringing us a piece of the fourth Memorandum tomorrow by means of amendments. Unfortunately, what you are doing and what you are doing does not promote our culture, which is a parliamentary city, which should be lifted up and not treated in the way you do. In practice you are the legislators, as your parliamentary majority allows you to do so. However, this does not deny the same right to the other colleagues who are in this Chamber, unless that is what you want to achieve. We are coming today, therefore, to discuss a proposal for a law that has lost its topicality and many articles want to be updated. As the rapporteur for the Democratic Integration in the committees said, many of the articles have largely been implemented by the government, as has actually been done with the second article, in which we have some comments, as I have heard you and a speaker from New Democracy fighting for who has brought the best social policy. I would like to remind you that the minimum guaranteed income - or whatever you want to call it - is a Memorandumary obligation that we have undertaken. It was established for the first time in 2012, under the Memorandum of Economic and Financial Policies for the implementation of the second programme of economic adjustment of the Greek economy. It has been piloting since 2012, in a second phase in 2014 and 2016, while it is universally applicable as of January 2017. So let's not just bless our beards, but let's see what's really going on and say this to the world. It is not a shame to say the positive things about Europe, because in this Chamber on the altar of populism we have learned to say only the negative ones and say that it is all foreigners who are to blame. It's not exactly like that. Europe has helped us a great deal. Unfortunately, however, we are seeing our policies, but also the policies of some of the creditors, not to be in line with the European spirit, which we must all serve, as this is the only way to ensure the goods we have enjoyed in recent years before a crisis, to which you have certainly not led us, but you are sinking us more in. It is something that is the result of the poor policy of PASOK and New Democracy governments. The other crucial issue with regard to this proposal for a law and about the laws you have adopted is when and how they will be implemented. Also, their assessment is not clear to us, as it is good to legislate, but we need to see and what results these laws have. The Minister responsible has given some information, but not in detail, so that we can draw safe conclusions. We therefore ask for immediate information at regular intervals on how these social policy programmes are going so that we know what the results are and what they are. We have seen in Greece too many cases blind taxi drivers taking allowances or people who have too many incomes to receive allowances. What we are asking for, and what is a proposal from the Central Association, is that money should be given to those in need, because we have also seen with your bonus in the thirteenth pension, many pensioners, who have had some income in which they could live, not like other seasons, but they could get through, get this allowance, help or whatever you say, and unemployed families, who had to feed their children, pay their current, rent, warm up, stay that way. That's not a good social policy. And, unfortunately, you must take all this into account, so that a code can be created, a platform. Fortunately, the electronics we now have are allowed to do so. It's about wanting to do it, look for a little bit, explore what's going on in the rest of the world, in the civilized world. Because in these areas, I believe that Greece has failed to achieve what they have achieved, and I cannot support the fact that we are promoting culture on these issues. So look at the little more seriously, where it is appropriate and take into account all the parameters, so that there is all this social state that we all want, although that is not what will take us out of the crisis. And you know it very well. It is hypocritical after the vote on part of the fourth memorandum, because we see that it will continue tomorrow, and probably in the previous bill we discussed there were articles in it - which is why you brought some prerequisites as a matter of urgency. So, after the supplementary memorandum - as you say it - you bring a proposal for a law that gives no solution at all. Neither healing nor growth. Greece is suffering from a recession. And as much as they reduce our debt - if they reduce it to us, which I hope will happen, some regulation will be made - if growth does not come, nothing different will come to the Greek families. I have heard some of you say that 'we were able to drop the unemployment rate'. You didn't make it. Why? Firstly, more than half of those who are still engaged in the tourist season are employed in a semi-employment status. But also because I fear very much that unemployment is falling because of fleeing, young people in particular, abroad. Let us get all the unemployed out of the way and say that we have fought against unemployment. Unfortunately, that is not the solution. That's not what we're asking. Growth will only come if we drive away from us all the old-fashioned habits that lead you to weigh the political cost and not bring the reforms that we need to combat unemployment, overtaxation and vertical reductions in wages and pensions. That's what we need to see. With regard to the second article of the proposal for a law that has been tabled on delays in the absorption of CIDs, you must act immediately. We have seen what has happened in the case of refugees. We did not use the funds immediately because there were no structures. We now hope with the appointment of the Minister and the Deputy Minister, on the European funds, that we do not have such delays, as it is money that is available and must be shared in society. So I do not think we should be prevented from doing anything so that it can be done immediately, so that we can make it easier for the citizens, who are so beaten up by all the measures that are being voted on in the Greek Parliament. Articles 3 and 4 are articles, which we cannot add anything else, and they are articles logically and should apply what is said within. The same is the case with the other articles, I just have some comments. In Article 5, for example, which you propose to take over the JEPs and other responsibilities, we are not opposed. However, in a successful institution, such as that of the JEPs, we should not charge them with extra weight, unless we first have secured them for these resources, so as to ensure proper operation. Loading a body that goes well, with extra responsibilities, if we do not even equip it with what it needs, then it will actually be its tombstone without being able to cope with its other obligations. In this part, the Central Association has spoken of mergers, overlapping of the responsibilities of many operators and we have often criticised this step your policy to create new services, new bodies, new funds, which we believe serve to build a party army, to ensure some percentage in the next elections. I do not know what this will be and which of the Greek citizens will support you once again, as hypocrisy and bad policy are evident, with which you continue to govern this country. We therefore agree with Article 5. I will close with Article 6, which concerns the social support and training centres for disabled people. There was a tragic mistake in 2011, since the structures were transferred on the initiative of the then Deputy Minister of State Mr. Bolaris to the 2011 law. All parties agreed, I think, that was the wrong move. I didn't see anyone arguing today. As a result, these public rehabilitation centres were abandoned, hospital administrations absorb staff and equipment of great value to actually rustle and force citizens to go to private centers. These private centres have fainted at the time when public authorities slowly collapsed. The Greek citizen cannot afford to give money for his rehabilitation when the Greek Government should have provided for it, as it had all the necessary supplies. We want to close in agreement with this. However, we would like to have more clarification on how this form of Ministry - Region will work, so that it can be run quickly and there will be no obstacles caused by bureaucracy on many issues in Greece. I would like to ask you, to those of your SYRIZA colleagues who are in here, to stand up a little bit, because it is embarrassing for you and for us to participate in this way of legislating and to assume your responsibilities. We cannot hear from parliamentarians, from ministers that we will discuss the law that we passed two days ago or a week ago. The debate must take place before, see what your objections are, see what the points you do not agree with and ask not to apply. You cannot bring a law, vote on it, and then an amendment to ask for it to be withdrawn. This is disgraceful for all of us, and it is one of the reasons that led the world to have this disdain against the political system and it must change. We all have to try that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, Mr. Megalustakas. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, thirty-five students and students and four educational attendants from the University School of Pantorora Zakynthos. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We are on our way with the Congressman of the Golden Dawn, Christo Hadjisavva. You have the floor, Mr Colleague, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Mr President. I hope the children did not see that the plenary function was without government, without Ministers, without State Secretarys and with amendments entering a ratification tomorrow, so that the fourth memorandum could come with its supplementary measures. In any case, a performance with supposed SYRIZA - PASOK ceremonies has been set up here today. Where's the New Democracy? A registered Member has today to speak. A great avata, therefore, in PASOK today, to expose his philosophical theory of things, as if PASOK never governed, as if he never governed with New Democracy, as if he were now ruling through the SYRIZA Government with its former ministers and its former MPs. As if we do not know that the philosophical PASOK view is this: "We have a good time, our people and those who want to become ours at the expense of the next generations." I guess the Annells should be a little concerned, because PASOK knows well from coexistence and we see a little bit now being promoted. The Tsobola, give it all away, and the other serious policies have led us to the present situation. So, of course, PASOK should speak, so that we all remember that we owe it mainly to its own policies, but also to the incomplete opposition from the New Democracy, what the Greek people are going through today. You don't even understand what the problem of Greek society is. You want to guarantee crumbs to the Greek people with amounts that do not reach for one week for a family. The problem is not just income. The problem is the cost of life and overtaxation in Greece. The Memorandum Governments and, of course, PASOK put us in the memoranda after draining the people with various tricks, such as the stock exchange and so forth. He brought the PSI, destroyed the micro-enterprises, taxed everyone and everything and continue as a Memorandum Government and you. You tax small and medium-sized enterprises, farmers, workers, free trades. There's nothing left in town either. The villages have been completely devastated, and it is clear that there is nothing left. The products in supermarkets buy them extremely expensive, even more expensive than the countries of Central and Northern Europe. The rents are at the height of both the houses and the professional houses. PPC has thirteen charges without electricity and consumption, only to obtain debts for those who did not have to date. You've filled the roads with tolls. They had their problems with some cities, you made them worse. I'll speak specifically about the Kilkis County Polycast. You put at the entrance and the exit of the national road toll. He had the economic bleeding that people went to leave his money next to Skopje, but he also had to hope for these passers coming down from Europe, if they stopped in the city before they went to Halkidiki or to the destination they wanted to go. Now, coming in and going out with the tolls, no one will stop. Yesterday I was told by someone I accidentally met working at night, and he and his wife. They've decided they'll make this sacrifice. They don't see their kids. They get a total of 1,500 euros and they barely get their money to spend their month. On the other hand, illegal immigrants get 400 euros a month and they get to live because, first, you have found them homes free, you pay them the electricity, you pay them the phones, you pay them the feeding, you pay them the clothes and you say they don't get enough. These all together if you cost them more than 1,500 euros. And you want to give now EUR 260 or EUR 300 guaranteed income to the Greeks? What does all these problems have to do with guaranteed income? Let's not laugh and let's not lie to the world and between us. Let's not lie to the Greek people. Philolian policy with memoranda cannot be done. As a Member mentioned the example of fish and fishing, he now comes and sticks the tomorrow that they want to bring into a sanction for fishing, which will pass the additional measures for the fourth memorandum. And why am I saying it's stuck? Because this genius, that it is best to learn someone fishing than to give him a fish, the memorial policies that you follow have taken a step further. They make you fish at night. And after you get the fishes to take them home, they're overtaxing you so much that when you get home there's no word left. As long as they run banks, industrialists and all those who give orders to you, there will only be measures in favour of banks and industrialists. Stop borrowing from the loan sharks. Save the people and not the euro. The Minister of Finance admitted to me a few days ago that none of the memos went through to save Greece. There was no question of Grexit. Everything was done to save the euro and the euro area. Prohibit loan with interest to Greek citizens and immediately nationalize the banks. There is no salvation through this Memorandum policy. We must regain our national dignity, we must have our national independence and, of course, our national identity. Let's call it self-evident without being ashamed. It is not wrong to say: 'I love my country and I am Greek'. It's not bad to be a Christian. It is not racist to say: "Greece belongs to the Greeks". Do the PASOK people remember that slogan or are they afraid of getting into the anti-racist? If you can't get out of the memorials and save Greece, don't talk about philosophical politics either SYRIZA or New Democracy, of course, neither PASOK nor all the Memorandum parties, and of course neither the KKE because when it was necessary. Leave space for us that we can and can talk about, where we can make it happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u158	We are on our way with the Member of the Centro Association, Mr. Ioannis Saridis. You have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u159	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, those who are in here and dear fellow Members and friends of the conflict, Mr Lazarides, today at the Conference of Presidents, decided to come up with a body of amendments tomorrow to ratify a bill of the Ministry of Rural Development. How do you judge that from your side? Are you used to it? I mean, because for twenty months we've been doing this again, you're used to it, you're used to it, you've been in your dna, you have accepted that this is the right way to legislate? I have asked for the floor, with a view to expressing once again the concern of the Centro Association, for the way that this government understands how to legislate, that is to say, to take responsibility for the legislative work. So much priority is given to this responsibility by the government. On the occasion of the examination of this draft law tabled by Members of the Democratic Integration, which is admittedly coming very late in this Chamber, before a debate in plenary, I would like to criticise your choice, of indifference and of not making any effort, you Members of the government-majority majority, to reach a parliamentary consensus in this Chamber. On the contrary, ladies and gentlemen, because the government is not here at the moment, you are struggling to maintain the pretext, which allows you to claim that your actions are moving within the Rules of Procedure. But you also know the spirit of the law, the constitutional legislature, the Rules of Procedure of Parliament. Have you wondered in recent months about the quality of your legislative work? They are dominating your days - today, now that we are speaking on your own responsibility - the concepts of urgency and urgency. It is often heard every day in the Chamber that this phrase 'with the exception of any other provision, any other law.' Clipping, rushing, lack of programming forced the use of unreasonable penalisation practices. It is another concept that comes in order to correct unavoidable errors, distortions and failures. Ministers sign bills without having read them. The day before yesterday, I think. Following the recent resolution of the fourth memorandum, the country's parliamentary life was also invaded by the adoption of a pre-legislative provision. This is for measures and countermeasures. The above, together with the unacceptable behaviour of certain ministers with regard to the obligation and their right to reply to Members' questions, form a grim picture, a depressing picture. You're trying to make us believe that there's no point in trying, that we're not making anything as much as fighting. At the same time, the Minister of National Defence asks us in committee to take responsibility for legislating together. At the same time, the Foreign Minister, Mr Kotzias, is fighting for a few and capable - and we must recognise it - and he needs the support of all of us. At the same time, Commissioner Avramopoulos is struggling with nails and teeth against many serious opponents, so that it is clear to everyone that Europe will only be secure. Under these circumstances, the Association of Centres in view of the critical legislative work of the next few months and the decisive decisions that the Greeks will be invited to take, requires the Government to change behaviour and, in practice, to prove its will for consent. Enough with the hollow words. That's enough of the delusion. I have, ladies and gentlemen, walked in the footsteps of the President of the Vasili Leventis Central Association, many years ago, the Centro Association entered the House. His word for consensus, cooperation, dialogue and democracy has been rooted in me. That is why the Centroon Association entered the Greek Parliament in September 2015, with the self-evident, because it was voted by those who believed in this necessity. Today if you go out and ask most Greeks, they will also tell you that it is necessary to do this at this stage. I, from the Step forward of this plenary, have argued for twenty months as a Member of Parliament over eighty times for the necessity of that reason. Every speech of mine within it has, it takes out, the anguish of this necessity. Nothing at all. Friends and friends, black clouds spread around the world. Black clouds have been densed for seven years over our country, above Greece. The last time is darker than ever. It's summer here, and there's a pussy, gentlemen. This is happening in Greece. It's summer, and it's a puff. For the sun to return, the government must understand the gravity of the words: consensus, cooperation, dialogue, democracy and do so. In order for the sun to turn around, we must change the attitude of all of us in this Chamber, all of you and all of us. "To return the sun wants a lot of work." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, Mr. Ioannis Saridis. Mr George Chogas, Member of SYRIZA, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u161	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make two comments, introductory terms. The New Democracy, consistent with its policy of confusion, did not fail to mention the assessment by its rapporteur, saying that the closure of the evaluation brought 9.6 billion measures. In my view it is a bid to risk and fantasy, which indirectly refers to Luigi Pirantello. 'So is it if you think so'. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the proposal for a law on guaranteed social income - strengthening social protection and integration. It's a law proposal submitted by the PASOK Democratic Association. Its debate is yet another proof that the government is promoting political dialogue and political cooperation, notwithstanding the fact that it is shattered. The proposal, however, has already been overcome by the following regulations by SYRIZA - and in particular by the CRL. Nevertheless, the relief of our low-income people and fellow citizens is a matter for all of us. Responding to poverty is a prerequisite for a state to balance, so that we can talk about a healthy society. Reinforcement of the welfare state and social solidarity is an essential SYRIZA programme commitment but also a main aim of government policy. As a result, no one could disagree with the substance of this proposal for a law, but on the other hand, as regards some of its provisions, it is unreasonable and quite superficial in dealing with the issues it raises. It is hoped, of course, that dialogue is taking place on issues aimed at financially strengthening the people's strata, which raise the burden of the harsh austerity policies carried out in previous years by previous governments, making social protection more and more imperative and creating a social state. The Members of the Democratic Partnership propose to Article 1 of their proposal to restore and extend the minimum guaranteed income, which, as we know, was a Memorandum of Understanding, however, poorly implemented with a delay of four years from November 2014, without any planning, without the corresponding infrastructure, and that, of course, does not give rise to any impression, as the previous governments have never dealt with the substance with the strengthening of the economically vulnerable citizen, with the unemployed, the low-wage citizen with disabilities. All these social groups have been clandestinely treated in the past. The previous government also applied the privileged provision of the minimum guaranteed income, and a few days before the 2015 elections. The government is aware of the importance of providing a monthly income to the poor people's populations, and has introduced the CRL, which has been documented by population rates of unemployment and poverty, as emerged from the humanitarian crisis and the ETA programme. It has been given criteria based on the incomes of applicants in real time rather than on incomes acquired a year and a half before the request for registration and is considering the actual financial situation of the applicant, the provision, thus excluding the well-known phenomenon, of fellow citizens who do not really need it at the expense of the others. But the government didn't stay in the CRL. Programmes for housing, feeding and social support are already in place. In January, the transfer of some EUR 14 million as a ninth instalment for charging approved feeding fruit under the humanitarian crisis programme was approved. In addition, the beneficiaries of the CRL are entitled free reconnection of cut electrical supplies of mainland electricity and free supply of 300 kWh electricity per month, rent allowance for new leases or renewal of old ones. We have also regulated the issue of free access for uninsured citizens to the National Health System, bringing an end to the blockade experienced by thousands of our fellow citizens, an issue which the previous governments have completely repudiated. What I have just said is some of the measures that the Government has put in place to strengthen the economic weaknesses and promote a prosperous state for the citizen. The proposal of the Democratic Independence for the minimum guaranteed income is welcome without timely and outdated. I hope, however, that Members will bring new proposals to the government in future, but that they will want to solve any problems with the public rather than the party interest. In short, I would also like to refer to the EUR 1,500 misappropriation, which is, in fact, a very small amount, considering the amount of the monthly cost of living. I am sure that the increase in the irresponsible limit must be increased in the immediate future. As the Deputy Minister, Mrs Papanatsiou, said at the committee meeting on 19/05, when the budgetary conditions allow it, we will be able to implement it and I am sure the government will not neglect to regulate this issue. As to the incompatibility of benefits and any form of aid or economic aid, I think it is indeed imperative to protect themselves, because their recipients are vulnerable social groups. What I am proposing is, in addition to the limit of incomprehensible intensification of controls in the banks, which are often dissatisfied with declared misappropriated accounts. It has been observed that they confiscate disability pensions and salaries, subjecting the citizen to a suffering of claiming his money, which is legally protected. We need to see this so that in these cases money can be released directly on a simple request from the citizen and fined the credit institutions that violate the existing provisions. Finally, with regard to the other proposals of the Democratic Participation I will very soon be standing in community centres, which were established by Law.4368/2016 and which were designed to provide extended press services to citizens, informing them of their rights to social benefits, assisting their participation in local, national and European programmes and acting as a local registration of needs. The purpose of their recommendation is to serve citizens, including - and above all - vulnerable groups and minorities. All these services will be provided by qualified staff, psychologists, social workers and lawyers, and the quality of the services provided to the citizens will be significantly strengthened. The combination was for community centres to carry out a very important social task, with which JEPs cannot be entrusted. The relevant Minister, Mrs Gerovas, a few days ago, announced the upgrading of civil service centres to a provider of administrative value added products for citizens and businesses with a view to alleviating the natural dependence of the public on JEPs. Therefore, the question of the functioning of the JEPs already seems to find its way and its role in the public administration. In conclusion, I would remind you that the proposal for a law has already been overcome by SYRIZA's developments and arrangements. I will only remain in the positive sense of this dialogue, which started on the basis of the proposal for a law of the Democratic Integration, which is a step forward, even though it is at the moment, in the fight against the humanitarian crisis and in the support of the weak. Convinced that fellow Members of the Democratic Integration have a sincere interest in bringing about the impoverishment of the Greek people, I hope that, in future, there will also be corresponding proposals, which we will draw up together, in view of the interests of the social group and, above all, of our fellow citizens who have been suffering in the last seven years of the crisis. The Government has demonstrated and demonstrated every day that it has at its heart the social state and the cooperation between the parties in this direction can only benefit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Mr. George Choga, SYRIZA Member. The Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, Mr George Lazarides, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Mr President. I shall begin with the words of a colleague from the opposition who has taken care of these relief measures which the government has taken, calling them poverty-management measures, ironing the government. But I would like to ask this: are there any measures to manage poverty, but this poverty, who caused it? These opposition parties did not cause poverty? PASOK and the New Democracy with PASOK. They challenged her. And now I want to complement the Papademos - Stournara government, the government of technocrats, which they call upon. And I would not mention to the previous colleague of the Central Association, but because they have made very often reference to a government of technocrats from the Central Association, I would like to remind Members here in the Chamber that the greatest disaster, the worst performance, the worst indicators, was in our homeland at the time when Papademos and Stournara were running. So do not constantly invoke the governments of technocrats. Then the opposition, PASOK and the New Democracy, when did they show sensitivity? Should we forget about the pennie they put in? The moment our fellow citizens, the Greeks, suffered, had no milk to take to their children, they put the five euros. This government came and abolished the five-year-old. One more thing to say, because it is good to remember them and not forget them, our uninsured compatriots, fellow citizens could not go to the hospital. Why? Do you want me to remind you what they did? They were put in the hospital and then the debts testified to the tax office. And there are cases - they have come and brought me evidence of my fellow citizens from Thessaloniki - such as this: they had surgery and were uninsured, because they were suddenly unworked, they closed their stores, etc., whose cost, when they came out of the hospital, was around 3,000-3,500 euros. After a year in my tax office, he spent 10,000 euros. The 3,000-3,500 euros went through 10,000 euros. Was that the sensitivity of opposition parties? They come now, of course, with cynicism and try to forget all this and talk about sensitivity. When one spoke of fellow citizens who were really hungry, they could not even have the necessary, necessary, to ensure for themselves or their children, they were being sanitized, they said that anyone who says so is demagoging. And they said the same thing about students from either television channels or from here, from the parliament. Fortunately, there was the Church, which substituted the state of theirs, which had absolutely no sensitivity to these people. On the other hand, I heard about the middle-class. They've re-reported the middle class. What middle class? The one they destroyed? Two hundred and fifty - two thousand shops, business and crafts are closed. This is the middle class. Those people who shut down their business. We're talking about freelance professionals. We Independent Greeks, our entire parliamentary group are free professionals, scientists. We don't have any civil servants. So they're gonna tell us about sensitivity to these social classes? We ourselves belong to these social classes. We have suffered all our destruction during the period when they ruled. We engineers have stopped having an object since 2009. In 2009, was SYRIZA ruling with the Independent Greeks? Certainly not. They should therefore be more careful. On the other hand, within their own parties, there are people who have taken care of their retirement long before they have completed the years, taking advantage of some "loopholes" and now they are precarious people in their parties. Their cynicism really has no limits. Remember what now? Remember something else, because we have lived in Thessaloniki very often and I have lived in my neighborhood. They took the cops out to stop the civilians - at night to check, not to check the evidence, not to have forgotten any calls. For 200 euros, these two PASOK and PASOK parties were taking the citizens to the police - New Democracy. Now they're talking about sensitivity? The people didn't dare go out tour. They had the feeling that the Greek citizens were in the occupied country. They had, of course, the ministers, who were on television, and when citizens were uncomfortable with the burdens, they said that "whoever does not have to pay for his home to sell it". Minister for these governments said that. I would like to say a few words about the measures taken by this government. Ladies and gentlemen, when we took over the country's governance, we were faced with the heavy consequences of a multi-annual memorialist and anti-social policy, which burdened a large proportion of the Greeks. We must therefore aim at the immediate relief of a large part of society, but at the same time gradually strengthening or reorganising state structures, which have been created to meet essential needs, such as health, labour and social security. So strengthening the social state's public structures and services for social protection in favour of those affected was one of the priorities. The reconstruction of the country, with a view to restarting the economy and growth, requires, of course, time, investment, structural reforms, a stable environment and strong foundations. In the course of the last one and a half years, and in the light of deep reconstruction, policies have been designed and implemented specifically for vulnerable social structures, such as children, elderly people, LEI, Roma, who aim to support their daily lives and provide access to services and goods. We could, of course, refer to the forecasts, commitments and priorities of the State budget 2017, based on the development of a modern and socially fair model of development and incorporate a number of critical interventions in order to analyse government actions and prove what has been achieved. For these purposes, the government has incorporated a number of critical interventions in its policy, such as the full expansion of social solidarity income with appropriations amounting to EUR 760 million and the provision of covering over two hundred and fifty thousand households living in poverty. Apart from income support, the program offers free health care for unsafe families, school meals, free distribution of food from social grocery stores, free of charge for all children of vulnerable groups at nurseries, work for 10% of the unemployed received by the CRL through joint programs of the Ministry of Labour and OAED, social price for electricity, water, etc. Access for two and a half million uninsured people to the public health system or care for everyone was also guaranteed, and to a large extent a reduction in drug expenditure has been achieved. 15% of public recruitment was guaranteed, covered by disabled people and by members of their families, while the expenditure of EUR 104 million was increased for the implementation of aid, training and reintegration programmes in the labour market as well as public works programmes by the OAS. At the same time, the Agency was associated with significant funding from the regular budget and from the Public Investment Programme of EUR 505 130 million respectively for the implementation of the above actions. Among other key interventions are the free movement of unemployed by public transport, bus to care for the homeless, abolishing insecure CEPD for insecure people. The Government's insistence on support measures for vulnerable groups is a sign of a given and well-established position to alleviate the weakest households, who have been afflicted by the policies of those who have smashed public reserves and managed European funds. Achieving social well-being is a key objective and is demonstrated by the social protection programme, which aims to meet the needs we have mentioned. We know that the struggle for what we are proclaiming will be painful and hard. But we're determined. We will continue to integrate as many social actions as we can, in a prospect of permanent state intervention and support for public bodies providing social care and protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u164	Thank you Mr George Lazaridis, Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks. Mr Kegeroglu has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Mr President. By listening to some of the Members of the Com mittee of Inquiry, one is explaining why they are voting on measures, memorandums, anal decisions and then criticising others. I must therefore say to my fellow Members that what is currently working in the social protection system is either institutionalised or prepared by the previous governments. To be clear. The only program that came in addition and was implemented for a while and then retired was the prepaid card program. All the rest existed before and whether they were renewed or extended and well done. But not so ignorant. My colleague has already read the additional benefits - which are actually provided for under the second pillar from guaranteed income - and as if I were to remember that he was reading the ministerial decision, which established the guaranteed social income, which I have signed. My first point concerns the fact that, for all these benefits - which are mentioned there, either for EKDAP, for PPC's social invoice or for the social tariffs of the municipalities for the social solidarity allowance with its new name as completed and applied throughout Greece - the automatic integration is now mature without a new bureaucratic process. That's what a regulation wants. We must do so, so that they do not start asking for the same papers from the people who have already been considered to be beneficiaries, and that is why they are part of the range of extreme poverty. It is precisely because the social solidarity benefit is intended to help these people. Secondly, it is about an integrated form of reintegration. Not only is this 10% of social work programmes not enough, but we need to see how we connect it to the real economy, to the businesses, to the programmes that are already in operation for businesses. Of course there is a system, so that we do not have permanent allowances in the sense that they can, but there is a job to work and at the same time to rest on the allowance. This requires an institutional change. Let's see how there can really be activation of the beneficiary himself in this direction. Otherwise, it's a trap that will make him passive and put him on the social margin. The other issue that has arisen from the way in which you have done so is the removal of the right to social research and social exposure by the local social service. Listen, this is a big mistake. Because of tax evasion and due to the many methods that exist and are driven to 'black' jobs people who want to avoid both high taxation and high insurance contributions, we have the phenomenon of being beneficiaries of this allowance, and local society knows very well that they should not be beneficiaries. So there was the right of the local social service of the municipality, the professional social worker, who has all the right and has sworn for it for social research and social report. So we have many such cases. For example, a Halkidiki broker has a home that has been taken by interest-free loan with the guarantee of the Greek State. At the same time, he makes the broker to Russians who buy in Halkidiki - obviously it's all 'black' - and gets social solidarity benefits while he shouldn't have taken. The local authority, therefore, knows that. But you have cut her right, because you have removed this possibility, which we had in the pilot project. The second is, then, about the length of stay in our country. Look, it is another thing to decide - if you do, this is an option - to be beneficiaries of refugees if we want to lighten the European Union's money to give and put them in the CRL from national resources and other things is that there is no precondition, as is the case today. If you see the number of applications and by extension the number of beneficiaries, the percentage in the northern municipalities from Iannina to Evros, you will see that there is much higher percentage than in others.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u166	What does that mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u167	It means that there are organised circuits, which meet the conditions of the VAT and AMKA and thus become a beneficiary.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u168	Is there any evidence of this?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u169	The figure above gives me the feeling that something's going on there. Unfortunately, all over Greece, there is about the same poverty rate and there can be no more than 20 to 30% more in this sense. It should therefore be considered in the next period. A great deal has been identified with the first pilot project - I assume that the second one would have been detected - and they have to be corrected. This concerns the way you manage it. There has been a debate before on the food aid programme known as the TEVA. Look, as it has been forgotten and the way it is implemented, it has a problem. There's got to be a review to see where he's going. We have specific cases - I do not want to mention now, but they have been made public and reported - which is a matter for re-examined. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I conclude by referring to the subject that has arisen today with the additional measures which will come to Parliament tomorrow with an amendment, as announced, to a ratification of an agreement which has been discussed in the Committee on Production and Trade. Look, this is unacceptable. We must say, as you SYRIZA Members must say - I am not talking about ANELs - who raise the burden of these decisions and which you apologise to the citizens, to come at least with a regular bill to give at least the right to debate, to give at least the right to be informed of what we are going to denounce and to vote on. Ask for it, too. This cannot continue. We can't have secretly prerequisites, which can appear with a deadline one day ago. So what the House has to do is to ask the government to bring in a proper bill, not a contract, involving other countries, the additional measures. The unbearable measures you have already voted for in the fourth memorandum. Now bring in additives, get away from someone, and you're clearing up some others. They can't come by this procedure. I call on the SYRIZA MPs, as they say 'yes' to at least preserve this issue, that is to say, their right to read the measures but also our right to read and study the measures and to place them on the ground. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u170	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being held from the top Western theories twenty-five members of the ABK Association from Bonn Germany. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The reason for eighteen minutes is the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr. Theanos Fotio.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u171	Mr President, are the Members finished?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u172	No, it's a dentist. Another four to five Members will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u173	Mr. Loverdo, I've been informed that I have a denology, which is why I didn't know, and that's why I'm saying it might make sense to intervene now that I've heard, I think, the whole thing. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a PASOK law, which, of course, is tabled today, gives everyone an opportunity to say many things either hypocritically or not, but certainly not to use them as a vehicle for their opposition criticism. I would like to say a few facts to you today, which I have also found in investigating the data of EUROSTAT and ELSTAT, and to present them to the House. Because I have heard a lot of about a state of intellect which has done PASOK, with references to major, of course, and very important changes in insurance or the ESS. In the end, of course, they did not tremble, the pensions to destroy them, and the ESS to disguise it. But what I found and which is very interesting - and I will present it here today, in the Minutes of the House - is that poverty existed before a very high rate of crisis. Take note, ladies and gentlemen, of the New Democracy and PASOK: On the basis of data from EUROSTAT, 1995-2010, that is, the period of growth with income from 1994-2009, Greece has the highest rate of poverty in the Europe of fifteen, an average of 20.4. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister, Mr Theanos Fotio, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Why? So how is it in these amazing periods of great growth that Greece has the highest rate of poverty in Europe? Poverty was not something that you were interested in either of them or them, not because you are not sensitive, but because you have another political perception. Your policy was to hide under the carpet of poverty and always manage it as charity and exclusively with customer relations. You have spent the lowest percentage of GDP, social expenditure, from across Europe in the years of prosperity and not to stir up integration and so on. I'm talking about pre-tax expenses. We have received EUR 780 million for the provision. The year 2015 was a budget, that was what we got when we got to the government, 0.4% of GDP, the lowest of Europe. We increased it by 15% in 2015 in conditions of suffocation, by 25% in 2016, by 100% in 2017, i.e. 1,750 billion euros and we will reach it in 2019 - in 2018 we will vote here - at 2,770 billion euros, i.e. we will have gone 350% over what we received in four years. We are not doing this during periods of prosperousness, but very close, and not because, as I said to you, we have social sensitivity - we do not blame you for that and you know it - but because we have social bias. Because we do believe in the dignity of everyone and equality. Because we are interested in the socially weak, the socially weak layers, the people without voice, those who I believe have brought us to the government and we want to express ourselves. But even because we are well aware of what neoliberal logic, which you do not apply, that is to say, every EUR 1 for social welfare, makes the GDP of the country 1.3% to 1.88%. In other words, he is a multiplier, ladies and gentlemen, of work. In other words, it gives jobs, it increases the GDP of the country. But even those crumbs you gave for social protection. Was it effective? No, it says EUROSTAT again: ineffective Greece in the times of prosperity, last in effectiveness in Europe. And these at the same time, 1994-2010. These are shown in Table 2, which I submit. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister, Mr Theanos Fotio, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Why? Because you've despised the state of Prosecutorship. We found fifty-four employees in Welfare, who were transferred from the Ministry of Health to the Ministry of Labour. He did good! Fifty-four employees were saved from the modernisation of Mr Mitsotakis, who fired, because the public sector was a big one. We have built two new addresses, one for Combating Poverty and the other for the National Instrument for Social Integration and Cohesion, new addresses in addition to the existing ones by law, which we brought to him here and voted for. Secondly, we have created two new administrative addresses, firstly, the Final Structure of the ESRB, because it is important to absorb all the money from the NRP, and secondly, the Special Secretariat of Roma, because you have become hundreds of thousands of Roma and more to live in three hundred twenty-five camps, which is shameful for the Greek state and we are condemned every day. What, then, was the prosperous state, which Europe and EUROSTAT say was ineffective in the periods of prosperity? It was a thousand four hundred private-law legal persons, charitable associations, NGOs, etc., who had entrusted them with social protection. They were sixty-three, all legal entities governed by public law, a hundred and twenty-five unconnected allowances, which they were entitled to from twenty-seven different principles of payment. Therefore, the handicapped, the homeless, the elderly, the children, the Roma, the needy of each authority, and many times in contradictory terms, each principle of payment, without uniform rules. Of course, then the crisis came and dismantled it all. I would like to refer to Table 3 with ELSTAT data this time. I refer to the tables that have seen publicity too many times. In fact, now UNICEF recently spoke of the same 2015 tables as ELSTAT. That is, the revenues of 2014. It's exactly what we received. These tables therefore note that 35.7% of the population faces the risk of poverty or social exclusion, 37.8% for categories zero to seventeen years old, 39.4% for categories eighteen to sixty-four and 22.8% for categories from sixty-five to over. I'm filing the relevant table in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister, Mr Theanos Fotio, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] What just happened to say what you're saying today and with such an accent? Aren't there those numbers? Are we going to erase them all from the memory of the Greek people? Will we now bring the sponge through the media we control and erase it? Hey, we're not erasing it! Well, we're looking after fifty-four employees. No national information mechanism for citizens. No design for the new ESRB. When did we get here? In 2015. When did the NRP end? In 2007-2013. It was over. He had taken an extension by September 2015. What did you plan? Absolutely nothing! Why? Because the NSRF was the most tool of your client's relationships. That's why you had low absorption. You planned them at the last minute, after a big fight between the freckles. The question was who would take, whose municipality or region, or I don't know what, the money would go. That's the way it was. That's why when we came in 2015, we didn't find anything. The notorious poverty structures expired in September. We've extended them two years. We gave 20 million of the state budget. We have redesigned them from the outset, and have been proclaiming them inappropriately. Not the client states and what you say about consumption. What client states? It will be done through the municipalities through APA procedures. Three hundred and twenty-five municipalities do this today. And as you know very well, we received all two hundred poverty structures in forty-seven municipalities and planned two hundred sixteen poverty structures in a hundred fifty municipalities. We didn't have privileged municipalities to give the Syrians. So we looked at it as wide as possible, obviously. And as if not all of this were enough, and I'm going back to it. There were twenty-seven principles of payment, then. We are planning a single payment authority. By September the new OGA, the one left by the old OGA, because one of the track went to EFCA, will be the single principle of payment of all benefits, with the same system of the CRL, crossing all state data. These "doesn't know what my left one is doing" ends here. In September the OGA will be ready for this great transformation and by the end of 2017 the system will be fully operational. Because we proved that when you want, you can do it. You didn't want to do it all these years. You remembered the disabled today. As many years as they tell you themselves "do not trouble us with different principles that give us the benefits, give them to us on the same day" there was no response to this. So we'll make it. We'll give it all through the OGA on the same day every month. And know it, at the end of 2017, all allowances will be paid on the same day for the disabled. The agony will be over. We will do the same for family allowances. Every month, the same day! You remember those CSRs that you've desolated, so people can wait months and months. At least six months! We're going to reorganise the CSRs again on the basis of the OGA. The whole process will be done electronically. The man won't be agitated to go to the municipality first, then the doctor again in the municipality, then go for an application in the CEPOL, then close appointments and so on. Are these tough things? Are we doing anything terrifyingly clever? Oh, no. You didn't want to do these things, because otherwise your client state was cutting you off. You should've sold publishing to all these teams. Whether they were disabled or elderly, whether they were homeless or children with problems, whether they were Roma or poor, all these socially vulnerable groups should begging you for something or coming to know something. This ends. Let us now go to the guaranteed income of solidarity, the vehicle for today's debate, or the CRL, the social income of solidarity as we say. It has been your Memorandum of Understanding since 2010. You have implemented a failed pilot project at the last minute in November 2014. You put on this 20 million-dollar program. Eighteen thousand beneficiaries came into this program. We have implemented it and put an extra 7 million. That's what you left us in the budget, 20 million. What does this have to do with the CRL? As the World Bank says, as the services say, your services were set up at the time - and I mean the crisis committees - the programme has had thousands of problems. World Bank said it could not be a basis and had to be redesigned from the outset. We've redesigned it all over again. What did we have to redesign and do it with our own will? Firstly, we should help our fellow citizen at the time of need and not one to a year and a half later, that is, by his tax declaration. This is over. He does not need his tax statement, the man who in the last six months has fallen into poverty. She doesn't need it. Why? Because we first connected online, electronically, at the same time, all the databases of the state. You couldn't do that? [[The end of the speaking time of Mrs. Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] Mr President, I will need two or three more minutes and I will come back if necessary. You couldn't do that? It was so hard! We connected "ERGANI", "ELIOS", everything. So, what does that do? It says immediately what man's income has been for the last six months. Once he puts his VDU, the platform appears in front of him pre-paid with all his data. What does that mean? That is the second thing we wanted, that is to say, that the system is simple. These teams can't pay for a life of accountants and be afflicted. They had to be able to do it on their own. It's all prepaid. Finally, the third thing we wanted was for the citizen to get an immediate answer at that time. He won't be anxious to answer him, like the ones you planned. At that time he tells him on the platform "you're the beneficiary of the CRL and you'll get that much money". That's respect. It is no service to what we are doing, it is respect to the human rights of every Greek. Of course, we are connecting everyone, all the services with it, and it is well known. The Greek will see them. Today they are five hundred and fifteen thousand beneficiaries of the CRL. Five hundred and fifteen thousand are experiencing this. They'll see to connect to all services very quickly. They've already begun. TAVA, drugs free, nursery. Let's see something else. All these years of child poverty you haven't seen her. Right? That is why the children of the poor did not have to go to kindergartens than to those who worked. So for child poverty, not to say it, you know the embarrassing numbers that we received. In 2015 it was 26.6% of child poverty. We were again first throughout Europe in child poverty in 2015 when we received. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister, Mr Theanos Fotio, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] These are forty-seven thousand children from poor families, from these low-income families, who we put into free last year for the first time with unemployed parents. Because you until then only cared about working parents, as the NSRP said, harmonisation. But we put the extra money from the state budget. They are forty - seven thousand children compared with forty - four thousand children from working families. Of course, it is 10% of the unemployed in the labour market, so that it does not become a trap to poverty. We have great anxiety not to be a trap to the CRL in poverty. Yes, and we still believe what we were talking about and when we first came. You should read them again to understand exactly what we were talking about. We're still struggling for this. What did we do about child poverty? There are three measures: First of all, it's school meals. There's been a huge fuss about how we did the contest and one and the other. So I inform you that at the moment the big competition is running for a hundred and thirty thousand children, which since September, when the schools open, will take school lunches in the country's primary school. It is a major international competition and its terms are guaranteed. Read the Minutes in committee, where I analyse exactly what predictions we have received and not to drop the quality and to benefit local communities and to be - let us say - that it cannot fall below that. Because this is how we planned school meals, which are in such a way against obesity. School meals, whether you like it or not, are a culture change and another concept at school. We will impose school meals in the sense that the money for school meals is now within the budget of the state. It's not out of the state's budget. And finally, tell us when you will come "in your kingdom", whether you will or not. Because with us in 2019, five hundred thousand children, that is half the population of primary and high school, will get school meals so that at the end of all public schools have school lunches.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u174	Complete your thoughts, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u175	Sure. I told you about the kindergartens. With regard to family benefits, no one said that family allowances for the first and second children. Only that's 40 euros. We have said that we will increase this for both the first and the second. As regards the law on admission and adoption, young people cannot cry that they cannot adopt in Greece and have children inside the institutions. Something's wrong. Didn't you see that for so long? What's going on? So we'll bring the law on assumption and adoption now. At housing, of course, we started with the rent subsidy to the owner - this is a huge initiative - and it is not given the benefit, to move the property market, with twenty-four thousand families in the humanitarian crisis. We are expanding the measure and we will reach 2019 to benefit six hundred thousands of our fellow citizens' families who are in rent or have a loan, with a total of EUR 600 million from the rental subsidy. Of course, I still have to explain what the Community centres mean right after.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u176	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u177	Wait a minute, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u178	Madam Minister, we unfortunately have a sad fact. We've lost Nikita Kamarinopoulos, former Mayor of Kamaterou, and we won't be able to stay until the end of the meeting. I want to comment on what you said in my dentistry. However, Mr President, I would ask you to do this. We have started the debate on this before you take over. Tomorrow there will be an amendment to the House with prerequisites and it has been decided, while you are presided over, - now the Secretary of our parliamentary group has informed me - that in the end what you said at the Conference, namely that the amendment will come, is the final procedure, without opening a list of speakers. This, Mr President, - we protest - is parliamentaryly inappropriate, it is inappropriate, it is disgusting. It can't be done. At least now make sure to open a list of speakers. That is not possible, Mr President. It's never happened before!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u179	In what you're saying, we've already taken care of and there's going to be a list of speakers...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u180	With one, he says.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u181	One of the parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u182	But that is not a procedure, Mr President. Mr President, we are protesting!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u183	There will be a speaker from the parties, there will be rapporteur, a parliamentary representative and a list given by the parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u184	Is it right that dozens of people prerequisites come in this process? It is not right, Mr President, that. We protest strongly. We're denounced!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u185	Yes, sir. Thank you. We proceed with Mr.Ioannis Sahinides, Member of the Golden Dawn, who has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, Mr President. Honestly, Minister, I was enthusiastic at what I heard from you, which made me wonder if you would reach the end of 2019 and do what you are saying and there need to be school aggregations in all schools, where you really intend to reach this economy! I heard PASOK's previous Member telling us that PASOK had institutionalised, voted, worked out everything that had to do with the social state. So tell us why you made today's law proposal, since you had done everything so nicely? Also, a moment ago, Minister, you mentioned - and your speech was based on this most of it - on data from EUROSTAT. You have referred to other independent authorities. Do you know what an independent authority means to me? Independent authority of any form means incompetent government to manage things. You and the previous governments have done too many independent principles. And what does that show us? It shows us that you are incapable of managing the state. There is an independent recruitment authority, which shows us that the ADP is coming to replace the state and that there can be no fair competition. You have created independent authorities in everything and everything. That's all that shows. We therefore have a proposal from the Democratic Integration, from PASOK, for the minimum - it says - guaranteed social income. Really, for what minimum guaranteed social income do you want to talk about? About the income you have deprived of the Greek people? Do you want to talk about the waste public from Migration to our days? You want to talk about the stolen stuff? Do you want to talk about the sale of public property, about the lists, about unemployment, about the demographics, about the suicides - the murders of Greek citizens, about our young immigrant in the mass? Mr President, at this point I would like to quote two, three days ago, because unfortunately, I heard from a man I respected as an actor - and I say that I was respecting him and speaking in the past, because I have ceased to respect him - to say that our youth, who migrates because of the need for survival, are traitors. In fact, this man was a Member of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Kazakos. Do you know what betrayal is for me? treason for me is today a man of eighty-two years of age to take a project contract from the Peripheral Theatre Patras 4,300 euros and not give up because he is a retired person, and to force another Greek to become a "supper" because he does not find work in his homeland. But let us come to the proposal for a law of the Democratic Alliance. All of you, co-government and opposition, have voted from two and three memos. And you are all responsible for today's tragic economic situation in Greece. But you, gentlemen of PASOK, have brought the political courage into science. You come and file a proposal for a law on minimum guaranteed income. The years you ruled what you did, really? And don't find any of you to tell us that on your own command there were no such things. In fact, in the last days of our surprise on social media we have watched various photos that present Greeks in the PASOK era and the SYRIZA era. This is something which, unfortunately, many of us understand as having lived in PASOK's 'Golden Years'. This propaganda of yours will fall into the void. You want to tell us that the borrowings that your own governments have taken and are today being called upon to pay for us, our children, our grandchildren, and perhaps our grandparents were fine? But tell us: Today we are not paying for what a competitor mentioned earlier, the so-called 'Tsobola, give it all'? Today, do we not have two examinations dealing with the miracles of your modernisation period? The money is there, we have said, the nationalists? Did you not contribute, as far as possible, to the current disastrous economic situation? Your wrong policies with regard to financial management are not to blame? Solve us a question: How do you do when you manage public finances or your own party finances to be completely failed and your personal finances to prosper and have thousands of euros of deposits? Impressively it is causing us and we would like to hear from the representative of the government why you accepted in plenary the debate on the proposal for a law of the Democratic Alliance. Expose. Your rapporteur has just said that this proposal is completely unreasonable. Have you not abolished most of the allowances a few days ago, to which you yourself referred, with the fourth memorandum you voted on? And that's more about single parent families. You even thought that the Golden Dawn would be missing from this debate in plenary, which would denounce and demonstrate the unconstitutionality of the draft law that you voted on. But let us come back to the proposal for a law of PASOK - PASOK. A state to be able to reach what you refer to in your proposal - and most of them certainly we agree - should be able to agree, regardless of whether the state has obligations or debts - and that is another debate - to be on a development path, that is to say, self-sufficiency and that there is the one known to all of us in the primary sector, so that the state can provide what is required of weak economic Greeks, what you are proposing and not just what you are proposing but much more. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A little more time, Mr President. But let us see what is happening today in Greek society. There is an inability to attract investment either from Greece or from foreigners due to high taxation due to an unstable tax framework. And if an investor finds himself having too many problems bringing money and being able to disburse it in order to invest. Capital control - banks. Negative remains the funding from banks in Greece for the eighth consecutive year in the private sector. According to the figures a week ago, end of April, i.e. only a few days ago, as I said, private sector funding was set at 0.9%. According to the 2017 European Payment Report, the Greek State on a list of thirty-two European Union countries has the top position as the largest badge-payer to private individuals. With an average repayment of sixty days, the Greek State pays, at best in cases, twice the year. Here I would like to add that the Greek State owes private individuals close to 5 billion, money which is not paid in the short term and always counted as a surplus. We will not talk about the free professionals, because you are aware of the disaster which has occurred, neither of the farmers nor of what you have imposed. However, I should like to refer to the construction sector which, before a crisis period, involved six hundred eighty firms which have been reduced by 40%. The employment of the workforce by four hundred thousand has gone down to forty thousand employees and there is also a weakness of incentives for young scientists to stay in Greece, to act professionally and to make families, which would solve both the demographic and the pension problem in Greece. I shall close with this, Mr President. Unfortunately, the only businesses that have a positive mark in the economy and are active here in Greece are those of the NGOs, whose initials mean "Bisses Good Organized", where in order to be able to deal with specific documents, and these are, of course, participation in occupation, participation in demonstrations democratic, certificate of firing molotovs on course or police clutch and participation in at least one parade of pride and so on. Unfortunately, you have done all this and today's co-chairmen and the previous ones, and I consider it appropriate to make a reference. When our special speaker spoke at the hearing of the word thief - PASOK I remembered that in recent years the word PASOK has become composite, and the “killer ” has come forward, for even former voters call you that. I am impressed, however, that the day before yesterday, although the same term was used, two of your MPs, who had the floor earlier, returned and said to each other: "For you, he says," in the hearing of the word thief - PASOK. I'm not describing any more. God bless you!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u187	We shall proceed with Mr Constantopoulos, Member of the Democratic Alliance. Mr. Constantopoulos, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u188	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that two and a half years ago Greece was a European country that was facing the harsh economic crisis. But he was struggling with nails and teeth to get out of her. Unfortunately, today it has become a real animal in a kind of laboratory, where anything extreme, anti-liberal and extremist finds its application. All this constitutes, gentlemen of the government, your achievement! Gentlemen of the government, you have rooted out all the structures of the social state. We are, of course, here today to make our own proposal, a proposal aimed at strengthening the welfare and welfare state. Ladies and gentlemen, the core and motivation of our political proposal is social sensitivity, protection of the sensitive and vulnerable members of the Greek society. Our aim is to tackle the phenomena of extreme poverty and unemployment. We are here and we are giving the battle in and out of the House every day to support the weaker classes. However, Minister, you must finally understand that you are creating a new generation of young people in our country and a young people who migrate to Europe by moving the handkerchief. So protect society and Greek citizens, because, Minister, despite what you have said, you have not convinced us. Only words, utopias and obsessed. Ladies and gentlemen, it is well known to everyone that extreme poverty is linked to unemployment, disease, disability, insecure old age, to single parents. Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that in 2001 in the Revision of the Constitution we said that we did not need to add a specific provision on minimum guaranteed income, because we all agreed that the Constitution imposed it. However, since then, ladies and gentlemen, much has changed. We, as government and within the core of the crisis to support the weak, have institutionalised the minimum guaranteed income, because we believe and believe, Minister, that the social state is one of the greatest conquests of European social culture. However, at the same time as Greece, we are at risk of staying with zero predictive structures because of the great incapacity and verbalism you display every day. In fact, however, one cannot concede the idea of Europe without the guarantees of the social state. Ladies and gentlemen, we are all truly aware of the great needs of society. The citizen has the right to demand the guaranteed income and the state of course has to give it to him. This is the logical order of the social chain, because social welfare measures are not charity. It is another thing about charity, it is another thing about social solidarity and another thing about the social state, Minister. The first is a moral attitude towards the co-man and we are obliged to do so. The second is an obligation for solidarity and redistribution of the rule of law. Let me remind you, Minister, of the vote on the draft law on the barbaric title: 'Access to a humanitarian crisis'. I ask you, Minister: has the humanitarian crisis been tackled? Has there been any need for assistance to society? I am waiting, Minister, for your reply. Ladies and gentlemen, there are many problems and accumulated. However, we are here to discuss them and propose solutions of course. In our proposal we are talking about organised structures and actions with dignity, of course always with respect to the citizen. Our plan is based on the support of projects that your policies allow you to slow down, such as the 'Help at Home' programme, the reinforcement of children's stations, the response to the tragic situation of the homeless. They are based on the minimum guaranteed income and the need for it to be paid. We are here to help integrating the social state's guarantees, a sustainable level of life, a necessary insurance system, a very specific regulation, I would say, the labour market and labour rights. The insurance system, welfare mechanisms, industrial relations, measures to combat unemployment are the main factors in a targeted social state. Ladies and gentlemen, during our own governance we have been faced with difficult situations, with new forms of poverty, with the country one step before bankruptcy. We have faced the problems with a sense of responsibility and a patriotic natural debt. We kept the country standing. We did not throw the ball for our country's suffering to the bad European lenders and partners. We have acted on social policy, with pools and care for the homeless, care for immigrants, under economic crisis, in the area of health, which is the area of large public spending. It's hard to try and understand. We know, Minister, what the reality is of both the health system and the welfare system. However, it is essentially the bleeding of Greek citizens from overtaxation that has yielded the terrible achievement of the primary surplus. It is high time, then, that this primary surplus was exploited, that injustices were restored. That is why we recommend that 25% of the surplus be allocated to the vulnerable social groups. We know who the vulnerable social groups are. They're registered. The prognostic problem, the problem of absolute poverty, will solve it by developing and relaunching the economy. The country must finally, Minister, return to normality. How? With investments, with a new model of reconstruction, with the support of the primary sector, with the support of our heavy tourism industry, with the support of energy and shipping. This will create a new productive wealth, which we will rightly redistribute. That's how we're gonna create new jobs. That is how we will combat unemployment. That's how we'll keep our children in Greece. So we will lead Greece to prosperity and exit from the crisis. That is how we will fight poverty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, Mr. Constantopoulos. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Mandas, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u190	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I really expected us to have a more calm debate, such as the one that had taken place in the committees, on the occasion of the PASOK proposal. However, I would say that the circumstances are indeed extraordinary and unprecedented for Greek society and the Greek reality. They may sometimes favour high tones and polarization and not a thorough valuation of events, so that we can draw conclusions that will be helpful to the whole of Greek society or, above all, to the overwhelming majority, the world of work, but also to the people who have urgent needs, which are unfortunately too many today, like yesterday, that is, all the years of the memorandum. I would say that we should concentrate our efforts there. I do not want to use the phrase today used by the newspaper 'AUGIO', which speaks of the isobetes of the grief. But sometimes speaking of some PASOK officials who are very intensely squeezing our fingers - because I do not want to see us going to this debate - we must remember paths as well. I don't recognize anyone. Everyone has a different personality and path. But we must be more careful. I heard something that really pissed me off. I have heard that from the previous speaker, and if I remember correctly from the parliamentary representative. I don't remember if I heard it from Mrs. Gennamas. What I heard was the charge of exodus of the social state and social analgesia. That's a lot of courage to be informed. That's not so, and you know that very well. I would like to insist on a few things, ladies and gentlemen, so that we can talk about the substance. We have two flagrant actions, two real actions, of this government in the field of the social state. I stand out two: One is universal health coverage for the whole population that exists in the country on an equal footing, in these circumstances, with the difficulties of the National Health System, access to and care for our uninsured people. The second is that we also have a flagrant intervention for Social Income of Solidarity. These are two contagious interventions, which are very substantial, very specific and with a specific fingerprint. I think at this juncture we might say anyway, but they leave a real print and they are important interventions. Without reservation, I think that in future history will judge them, as it considered positive and substantial reform interventions to be positive, the institutional interventions made during the PASOK governance period - and particularly in the first period - with whatever problems they may have developed afterwards. However, in the time that has taken place - and above all, I say this again, in the first time - there were conceivable interventions which the progressive forces have broadly supported. We must not forget that. We have to be a little cooler, I'd say, in those evaluations. In this sense, I would like to say two things, because I think they are important and why they have not been said with some more analysis so far. First of all, there is the question of the Community's centres. It is also a flagrant intervention of this government. In fact, the Community centres would say that they are the sensors of the state at a local level. In other words, these are the structures which bring together in a horizontal way all the possibilities which a person in need may have and which can very simply and without any mediation - and that is very important - to have access to the Community centres in order to learn very much about the procedures for granting social protection, but of course also to have direct access to all these services. This is a very crucial issue, because direct access, access without mediation, strikes institutions in the essence of what we have known as a customer state. I would even say - to make a reference to this - that the institutions which organized PASOK from a point of view and then were, unfortunately, poisoned by the client state. We know this historically and experientially, I would say. Therefore, the two hundred and fifty-four Community centres in iso-numbered municipalities and the recruitment of seven hundred qualified persons under ADP procedures will give these local sensors this possibility. They will also give citizens access to all services, with all the information necessary to get them, if they need them. That is the first point I wanted to make. The second thing I would like to say, because it was said in a single row, I would say unfounded, by the President of the PASOK that the countermeasures were a bubble, which broke, I would like to remind you again, so that we can hear them here at the National Representation and that the Greek people can hear them. I will only refer to the compensatory measures concerning the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity. I would point out here that the condition, of course, for these compensatory measures to be applied is to be within the objectives, on the basis of what we have said, namely 3.5% of the primary surplus. It is therefore the rental subsidy of EUR 600,000,000. In total one million households, the beneficiaries will be 600,000 - 60% of the percentage of households benefiting from this allowance - which concerns people renting houses or having first home loan and the maximum amount of allowances is EUR 150 per month and up to EUR 1,700 per year. In drugs, an individual monthly income of up to 700 euros, which is about 60% of all citizens, participation will be zero. From EUR 701 to EUR 1,200 individual income, participation in the pharmaceutical expenditure will be reduced by 50%. In other words, a large proportion of the Greek population, close to 80%, benefit from the drugs measures, which are estimated at EUR 240,000,000. The nursery stations, 140,000,000 euros. The beneficiaries will reach the ninety thousand in 2017, in 2019 the hundred twenty thousand and in 2020 the thirty-five thousand. In other words, we will have a 50% increase by 2020. School meals - the Minister said - will reach half a million in primary and high school pupils, about 50% of primary and high school pupils. And most importantly - I think this is very important to stress - they have the potential - I do not say that we can do this from the very beginning - to introduce a new way of feeding children, because, as we know very well, the problem of child obesity is one of the very critical public health problems that our country has. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I am also going to finish, Mr President, the family allowance of EUR 260,000, 000, where we will have an increase in children's allowances for the first child from EUR 40 to EUR 60 and for the second child from EUR 54 to EUR 100 a month. It is a very important increase, which I think, for people who want to start a family and for people who have families and children, it is a very important measure. And finally, I say again these are the countermeasures that concern this ministry, new jobs, EUR 260,000, EUR 30 000 jobs, in the private and public sectors. So, not only is that nothing, not only not a bubble, but I think they create a new way of bringing about the social state's approach, they certainly create new structures and, in any case, it is very important - and that is what we stress there too, if you will, is our differences with the New Democracy - the emphasis on collective, the structures, that is to say, the large social majority to give, not only relief and protection, but also a prospect of actually establishing a social state. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And one last word, if I may, Mr President, for a minute. We have too many statements made over the last few hours in connection with the negotiation and development of this. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that we can now say - and I would like to say this to the National Representation - that, with the strategy followed by the Greek Government, which will of course be judged - and it will be judged with a deep background, I imagine, because it needs to be judged calmly in these circumstances - the conditions are shaping up to a positive result very soon. I mean the Eurogroup of 15 June. The country really shows that it has potential, and its economy and society, to get away from this magnificence, to get on a clean path as long as it can be clean in these liquidity conditions. To be able to make these indications that the Greek economy has shown in recent years, both in the numbers of employment and in the issues of progress, both in industrial production and in the export sector, etc. to use them in a systematic way, I would say, and all these advantages of the country, to get away from this austerity, which, as long as there is and as long as it is there, will, of course, push and compress any effort we make at the level of the social state as well. The only exception, unfortunately, once again in this prospect, more noisy, I would say development, is the statements made by Mr Vice-President of the New Democracy, who neither too much nor too much, told us that what made Germany tough, was Tsipras' statements that the measures will not be implemented unless there is a solution to the debt. That is to say, 'watch, Shoeble'. I'm sorry once again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u191	Thank you to SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative Christo Manda. The speaker of the Democratic Association and Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Dimitris Kremastinos, has the floor. Here, Mr. Kremastein, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u192	Mr President, almost everything has been said and I therefore have nothing to add either to the speech of the President of the Democratic Association, Mr Gennimata, or to our parliamentary representative, Mr Loverdos. However, I have to comment on a few things that have been heard in the Chamber and of course my dear colleague in medicine, other than politics, has said so, Mr Mandash. When we talk about the dismantling of the social state, we do not mean that Mrs Fotio is making this clear, obviously. The social state is being dismantled when the country's economy is not working well. Yesterday, a newspaper belonging to SYRIZA was headed "The social state in the quote". What does that mean? It means that if the economy gets worse, the social state will get worse. You can't criticize the International Red Cross, because it can't bring together the dead and the wounded in the war when the war grows when the dead and the injured are multiplying. Then the International Red Cross does not make it. So you're saying the International Red Cross isn't good. But he's good. Same thing we have today. If the economy is getting worse, the social state cannot be better. It will be worse, whoever is Minister, whatever the government is. The second observation is that we are talking about a client state, and we forget that Klathmonos Square was called that, because every time a government came, it drove past civil servants away and appointed others. They went to Clathmonos Square and weeped. That's why it was called Klathmonos Square. In other words, it is a Greek phenomenon. But let me, who really tried this phenomenon to overthrow it? Didn't Peponnes and Andreas Papandreou try to overthrow it with ASEP? What other Greek government took such a step? Who? We're listening to the House about the client state. That's right. There was, there is, and there will be, if necessary. But it's limited. The APA was the most effective action. The historian won't charge it historically for PASOK? He won't say anything? Is that possible? In the House, however, we hear a lot: 'the thieves', 'the crooks', 'the robbers' and all of this. Was there any period in the country where these phenomena were not available? Eleftherios Venizelos historically left with the slogan "outside thieves". What did PASOK do? He passed a law that, the ones that parliament with the committees of inquiry relieved them, sent them to prison. The PASOK didn't do that? He didn't erase them? All the other parties are virtuous in this House? PASOK paid far more than anyone. If there was no such law of punishment of black money, there would be no punishment today. Is there any objection to that? There would be? The boards of inquiry have done anything? How many people have been taken to prisons? Nobody. So we cannot historically place these where we need to. Of course, we must say that the social state, if there is no growth, will not only get worse, but will disappear. "The debt will wipe out the country," said Andreas Papandreou, 15 years before the time of bankruptcy. What have we done, or what has each tried to do in the fifteen years? It'll be history. I will not say it now, so that everyone can start saying 'no', 'yes' and so on, but nothing has happened to prevent bankruptcy. That is what I mean, and not that nothing substantial has happened to the country. Talking about all this made me some impression. In order to support the social state, we must first do something. PASOK, in the coup d'état with the New Democracy, has taken the lead in passing a law that says that oil products will in many cases support the social state. He'd been through law. But we must have the products to support the social state from oil mining. Yesterday at Euronews I was surprised to see an ad by Turkey, in addition to FYROM, which said: 'They are blowing winds in Turkey. Come and make wind energy in Turkey." And I ask: does Greece have any winds, when in the Aegean Sea from above, in the summer they breathe winds of eight bottles every day? We're not doing anything. And I'm not saying it's not just the SYRIZA government, to be objective. We're not doing anything! How are the investments coming? How will investors come? On the one hand, we call for a social state and it is right. My own minister is characterised by what was good for the welfare state, because at the time Mr. Schoulakis and Mr. Kourublis were the State Secretary, and whatever request came from the HEIs, there was a law. We have not said 'no' to anyone. But then there was the possibility. Today, however, this possibility does not exist. So we must first create wealthy sources, that is, growth, investment, not to say to Mrs Fotio every time, because you did not do that or why you did not give more. Where'd he get most of it? When the economic state shrinks, the first to pay for it is the social state. There are no miraclemakers, neither as Prime Ministers nor as Ministers. We must bear this in mind and embrace all of us, all of this if we really want to support the social state.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u193	Thank you to the MP of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR and V Vice-President of the Parliament Mr Dimitris Cremastino. Next, Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas, MP of the PASOK-DIMAR Democratic Association, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, Mr President. I will start with something Mr Mandash said - who unfortunately left - that I really liked as a term. Referred to ‘Isoviates of the brass’. And it is very interesting - I think - when I relate it a little to tomorrow's sitting, in which what has been called the '4 plus memorial' will be discussed in the way it is being discussed, that is, it will not be discussed. And I could say too much in relation to the courage of those who said other things and do more. Mr Loverdos just read a statement from the Prime Minister very recently - it was January, I think - where he spoke about 0 euros, which was very recently disguised. But I think this whole thing doesn't make much sense anymore. Speaking of courage to the SYRIZA government is like stealing a church, reminding what they once supported and now do. Therefore, I will go to the topic today, the minimum guaranteed income, which in my opinion is really a case of case study, which in itself clearly shows how self-evident, necessary, reform, not only is delaying and cancelling, but is showing overall why the country has, possibly, improved from a memorandum to a memorandum and while everyone else has come out and have development, we are still concerned. Very briefly, I would remind you that there was the minimum guaranteed income for a memorandum obligation in the first memorandum in 2010. Legislation in 2012 and then ceased to be SYRIZA's position. He did not vote in the House and ceased to speak of a minimum guaranteed income, which he has done until then in his programme statements. In 2014, it was programmed in thirteen municipalities with very serious problems, perhaps, as Mrs Fotius said - it was implemented - to come in 2015 and the first bill of the new government, the famous bill on the humanitarian crisis, in which, despite lasting calls, almost all of the Anti-Population, for the continuation of the evaluation of the programme and its completion, Mrs Fotio criticised everyone, saying that the IMF's minimum guaranteed income is a recipe and that it poses a huge risk of being a trapping poverty, trapping the population and passing on to other kinds of privileges that we all remember. Then, of course, as a Memorandum of Understanding of the Third Memorandum, the minimum guaranteed income was legislated under another name, it is called the CRL now, that is, a social solidarity allowance, and it has been introduced gradually, pilotically first and now to everyone. We went, we returned, from 2012 to 2014 and from 2014 to 2016 and from there to 2017. SYRIZA denounced the Memorandum, denounced the german germans, Symble, the minimum guaranteed income, to apply it afterwards, denounced the courage of others. In the meantime, nothing. And today it's fascinating. Today we have heard from everyone, just a moment ago by Mr Manda, that one of the two major aspects of welfare are medicines - I will say something about that later - and social cover and the other is the minimum guaranteed income. We have listened to the debate in committee a lot about the creation of the electronic register, which, like the minimum guaranteed income and there have been commemorative requirements. This is the policy of the memorials, for which SYRIZA is currently taking place. SYRIZA's policy, as far as we have been able to see it, was exactly what you are complaining about: a continuation of an anarchist and customer-friendly system of allowances, which were unreserved. No one knew what he was getting. We have seen a few efforts, as was the humanitarian crisis bill, the creation of new mechanisms and new benefits, which have been cancelled in the process, I am glad to say. A key instrument for combating poverty, the Committee said at the time, is the policy of minimum guaranteed income, which must operate in the context of an overall policy aimed at economic and social reintegration, i.e. the emancipation and reintegration of the poor and the weak. Finally, I think we all agree. After disagreement, we denounced, we legislated differently, at least late rather than never before, we agree on that. Would it not have been better if we had already agreed in 2012 than the first attempt? And from there on, to disagree about the way in which it has been implemented, or the weaknesses, the problems, the intentions, even though honestly, it disturbs me when we talk about welfare in the court of intent. I do not believe that anyone has bad intentions when it speaks of poor people, of children below the poverty line and of weak people who do not have access. But, in any case, was it not better to have from 2012, not only on the guaranteed income, but also on this, rather than on the courage? Would it not be better if we had the patriots who are missing in a policy of unity on this at least, which is self-evident and necessary, so that the country can move forward and allow the weakest parts of the population to follow? What I have said many times, and I feel the need to say it again, because I hear it with so much intensity, soaring, arrays, beams, etc., progressive politics and charity are not matched. They may not, however, be identified. Otherwise, both Ottomans and their poor houses and the governments of the '50s, which had piles in schools, would be progressive governments and I think we agree it was not. It is also useful for students and for the feeding of food and food, but, as we have said before, within the framework of an overall policy. Unfortunately, we see, only compulsiveness, and we see no policies to tackle the greatest problem, which is unemployment. Unemployment contributes mainly to increasing poverty. It would be better, I have said before, to strengthen families, to feed their children, rather than to do something that might turn into what you once said 'poverty trap', to the extent that it is done without any connection. I have also watched - and I shall end with this, Mr President, you will give me less than a minute - the Minister of Health Mr Blonde - I always watch him with great interest and a secret admiration, when he builds these theoretical shapes of a mixture of tactics and tactics - I have heard him again today supporting a vision of politics, which unfortunately has nothing to do with reality. I won't say much. I think that those of us who have the picture of large hospitals in the country for the past twenty years have evolved, every time we visit them, we have the answer. However, I was impressed, and that is what I wanted to comment on, that the Minister usually speaks of restoration, repair, repair, repair, restoration of a system which, as he said today, created the PASOK in 1980. Mr Mandas said so before that, in fact, the old Orthodox PASOK in the 1980s was good, and then it became bad. I think some people on this should think a little bit more. In my opinion, things were never so simple or linear. But indeed, it is something that everyone recognizes, PASOK is responsible for the welfare state in Greece and for the National Health System. PASOK has introduced policies into welfare and health, with mistakes, problems have evolved badly sometimes, there is a problem with clienteles, there has been and evolved, except that we do not see it corrected, we do not see any transparency policy that installs something new. The idea that you are doing better today than what PASOK did in the 1980s only because some were not honest or good and you are not, I think, in any way political. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Mr Barriotta. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, twenty-six students and students and five teachers from the 4th Municipal School of Polychni of Thessaloniki. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] It is over by the speakers. Mr Katsotis from the Communist Party has asked for the floor. You have the floor for four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u196	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to give an answer, first of all, to the Golden Dawn criminals, to the Nazis with their inhuman ideology, to the descendants of the German partners, the hoodiers, who thought they were able to attack Mr Kazakou's face, whose route, of course, is unknown. The treason, which Mr Kazakos said, refers precisely to the face of capitalism, to those who have power and want poverty, impoverishment, unemployment, lead to migration and the refugee of young people and young people. That's what he called treason, not the children who migrate. The self-evident, such as no child hungry, no human being, everyone having health, education, everyone having work, the medicine not to be missing from anyone, to have a decent living, unfortunately you, who are serving the needs of capital you have turned them into inconceivable. That's the reality. SYRIZA - ANEL Government has proved to be the best laundry for the works and days of the New Democracy and PASOK, as well as the best lubricant of the capital machine to increase its profits for the new profit fields, which it offers to monopolist groups. Go on from where the previous ones stopped. It has not changed a single 'and one'. Of course, he went further than two other memoirs, breaking the people. It is not about the people that the tensions we have seen here today are misleading. It does not concern improving the living conditions of the people, the weak, but the further reductions in allowances, which you call rationalisation, and of course, you are using social solidarity as a tool. The tensions concern pressure from the other powers - Mrs Genomema told the Government about the delays in the process and the need to repulse these policies more quickly - of course, in the direction of the decisions of the European Union, the International Monetary Fund, the OECD, the demands of business groups. The core of the PASOK law proposal is in this direction. Gentlemen, you have no other way, even if you wish, than trying to reconcile the workers, the people, with the slightest. Because this is the need for the capital you serve, for the people to put the cubits down and down. That's what you invite them to do. These needs are managed, so your policy can only be counterweighted, anti-grass, to overthrow every conquest of labour, insurance, social, to catch the ultimate goal of capitalist recovery, capitalist profitability. No compromise. Workers, through their organization and their struggles, must overthrow this policy. I'm going down, because it's over. You say that tomorrow there will be an amendment to the House to pass the prerequisites for the second assessment. We consider this to be unacceptable. A week ago you voted for the national exit target for purchases in order of forty-eight prerequisites for...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u197	These, if you'll excuse me, I'll see you tomorrow, Mr. Katsotis. Don't extend to that. Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u198	I'm done. The answer to the working class will be there tomorrow. That is why we call on the workers, the pensioners - because they are also concerned with collective agreements and the freezing of pensions and a number of other measures - to the gathering organized by the Pan-Agricultural Racing Front tomorrow at 15:30 at noon in Syntagma Square. There will be the answer to the government and to this amendment, but also every day at the workplace, because no compromise can be found with these policies, which are burdening on the people's backs a debt which is not theirs, which is not theirs, which is theirs, which is theirs and their lives.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u199	Thank you, Mr Katsotis. Mr. Loverdo, because, as you know, your president spoke, you only have three minutes. And the Minister will close. Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u200	I owe for Nikita Kamarinopoulos, who left us, his wife Anastasia and his children and his condolences. I'm sorry that today's process went so far and I can't be near the funeral of the late. I would like to repeat, Mr President, that the Democratic Integration denounces tomorrow's moderation. Let me say that this is not just an unrelenting process or a disgraceful process. The House tomorrow is abolished, in this way that the majority of it chose to pass the last prerequisites. Madam Minister, I would not now take the floor if you did not say a few things, which I feel the need, not to comment on. Repeating what I said in my prototype doesn't make any sense. But I feel the need to criticize you, not comment. First of all, you made a reference to the media and how your work was recorded there. You must be very pleased with the way you are faced, because you are being criticised. What we've been through for so many years has been really unique. If our Member was to bring the Savvidis amendment here or our Minister, like Mr Papadimitriou, had accepted it, he would have been in the television'maganda' four to five days before he resigned. That was the way it was until you took over. In the difficulties that the country is going through, and where the government faces mistakes, omissions, contradictions, all of them are lucky, the mid-size landscape is what it is today. I would like to thank the Commissioner for his answer. You referred to pensions. The pensioners' network, Minister, referred to what has happened in the memorandum years and recorded what is the truth and I have said it several times, that the majority of pension cuts were made in your days when you said about subsidiary and, above all, about the opposite. It's true and the numbers give it up. You should ask your chief minister to tell you that. That's what the retired network says. Opposition records it. I too, with my experience, not only confirm, at any time I challenge you to speak here with numbers. As far as health is concerned: the Minister spoke about recruitment, you also mentioned the health system. You know that the latest mass recruitment of permanent staff was done by me in 2010 with three and a half or four thousand nurses. The Ministry is now making recruitments, but limited time and with too many problems in their operation, as the relevant parliamentary control has shown. You didn't find a word for the C.E.D. You spoke twenty-five minutes and didn't find a word to say, and our positions focused on it. What do you say, after all, that you abolished it? Report ELSTAT figures and various statistics for 1st of 2009. The numbers don't help you. Go out and tell Greek citizens that before 2009, things in Greece were tragic and were not what they seemed, because the Statistical Authority speaks of greater poverty in the field of Europe. Go out and say that the forty years of well-being of the Greek people before they did not have, they were the worst, they were not good, they were bad impressions for their everyday lives. You dare not say that. Here and here with permission, the argument can pass.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u201	Please complete, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u202	For the children's stations and for the children of the world who went there, because you devoted enough of your speech to it, to remind you of last year's? That if the CEDEFOP and the MPs did not intervene - we here - would you stay with the first set of measures, money for the kindergartens, and would you not take the fifteen to twenty thousand children then? Do you remember that? That's what happened last year. And last year you had collapsed. Last year, this was the CEDEFOP intervention and counter-population intervention. I would ask you, when we are in parliamentary control next time, that you speak with numbers, that the issues be specific, common to the pleas of collusion and opposition, in order to compare them. When we say other things you and other things don't come out, and people think we're making fun of him.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u203	Thank you very much. Minister, I would ask you in five minutes to have given the answers. That's enough time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u204	I am not going to need so much time, Mr President, for the very simple reason that Mr Loverdos actually has a way of perverting what is said, and indeed the reality. That's a talent. What happened last year at the nursery stations? This happened. It was revealed for the first time - through the system that we brought for the first time last year - what you 'underneath the carpet' all the years, that you had not predicted, you have not created so many years sufficient nurseries throughout the country. Result? We made a system incompetent, where she gave the poor mother, but also the working mother a voucher in her hand, the woman had no place for her child, because there were no stations. That is why in the countermeasures, which bring you creepy, there is provision for the creation of a thousand eight hundred stations, infant and child-care stations, which we will build, because we have also predicted the money needed to create as a place, in other words, logistics, but also for them to be equipped. That's the truth. What can we do? Last year no CEDEFOP told us what to do, unfortunately or happily. We want to work with the CEDEFOP, we work with the CEDEFOP. You know we recently had a conversation at the Ministry of the Interior, the Minister of Education and I, because they were afraid that there would be not enough children to get into kindergartens because they would go to kindergartens from four years old. As you all know, educational and pedagogical is the best. So the workers were very afraid that they would stay without work at the nurseries. Today, while we are giving extension until Tuesday, we know that last year's applications, figures, and we are going to go for a lot longer this year, which is why we are going to get 100 000 children this year. In fact, most are money from the state budget. Why did you have the first two years to take almost all the money from the NSRF, not put a single euro out of the state budget, and today what remains is 65 million from the NSRF and all the rest we put it from the state budget. So it seems that things are a little different. What criticism do you want me to do in the media? Not long ago, you said that we were being treated extremely well, that we were probably flattered from morning to night. I'm not criticising, Mr. Loverdos, in the media, because it's well known what's going on. Go on the road to the Greek people, say how much the media are in favour of SYRIZA. So go tell the Greek people, since you like to say that. As for the numbers, Mr. Loverdo, what exactly did I say? I said that in times of prosperity and growth, that is, when the Greek people felt that everything was going up and choked up by the banks to get loans from the morning until night, when you opened the stock exchange history and lost their assets, then at those 'good times' Greece had the highest percentage of poverty in Europe. That's what I said. Because for poverty you were not interested in the times of prosperity. We can do the black as much as you want. Finally, the people are the judge, obviously, and we will all be judged. And what we do will be appreciated. I believe that when the time comes for the crisis, the people will actually weigh it all up. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u205	Thank you, Minister. The Member, Mr Placiotakis, shall request permission from a short-day absence abroad, for personal reasons, from 9 June to 11 June 2017. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u206	The House therefore approved the requested permission. I have the honour to inform the House that the Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to Parliament under Rule 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 ‘Prime responsibility of the Ministers’, as is the case on 16-05-2017, criminal case-file concerning: Mr George Papaconstantinou, Competitiveness and Shipping Mr Michael Chrysochoidis and Rural Development and Food Mr Konstantinos Scandalidis. (b) The Ministers responsible for finance Mr Ioannis Stournaras, Development and Competitiveness, Transport and Network Infrastructure Mr Constantine Hatzidakis and the Deputy Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr Maximos Charakopoulos. (c) The Ministers responsible for finance Mr Ghika Hardouvelis, Development and Competitiveness Mr Nikolaos - Georgios Trinidad and Rural Development and Food Mr Georgios Karasmanis. (d) The Ministers responsible for Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism Mr Georgios Stathakis, Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy Mr Panagiotis Lafazanis and the Deputy Minister for Finance Mr Olga - Nadia Valavanis. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and all of the proposal for a law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity: 'Guaranteed social income - strengthening social protection and integration' is finalised. The proposal for a law will not be put to the vote because it falls within the scope of Article 73(3) of the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-08-S1-commons.u207	With the agreement of the House at 17.13 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday 9 June 2017 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: (a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent debate and (b) legislative work, according to the supplementary agenda distributed.
