ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 28-7-2017, the minutes of the PHC meeting, on Friday 28 July 2017, concerning the vote on the entire draft law: ‘Adaptation of Greek legislation to the provisions of Directive (EU) 2016/881 and other provisions’]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a statement to this House. The Standing Committee on Educational Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: "Organization and functioning of higher education, rules on research and other provisions".
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Five questions will be debated today, and during the sitting I will announce the reasons why the rest will not be discussed. The first two topical questions will be answered by the Minister of Tourism, Elena Koudoura. We will begin with the first question under number 1283/25-2017, first question by the Member of the Dodecanese Coalition of the Radical Left, Elias Kamaterou, to the Minister of Tourism, on the subject: “Insert framework to address the uncontrolled expansion of the phenomenon of all inclusive tourism.” Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes, with the known tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, I think everyone should recognize your efforts. The results are seen in the increase in the arrivals of tourists, the expansion of the tourist season and the expansion of alternative forms of tourism. We have repeatedly discussed and expressed the view that this is your job, your growth in tourist current. But, overall - and you are right about that - we have a problem when we want to answer the question 'who benefit from this increase in numbers'. Our position as a government - you know - is that we must answer the question 'who benefit' rather than leave it, as has been done so far. There are various problems here. We know there's an unequal distribution. We know there's no spatial planning. We know there was no plan per region. All this creates problems. In other islands, societies benefit more than others. A characteristic example is the system all inclusive, which you know very well that this is an agreement between hotel owners and agents, who move the tourists massively. So far, it has created a terrible problem in local societies. In particular, Kos - and I come from - has very characteristic examples of the operation of all inclusive. In fact, I think it gets even greater dimensions after the earthquake we had a few days ago. That's why I'm putting this up. The question, of course, was before the earthquake. But now it is even more important to deal with this phenomenon than we do. Because while we say that there can be no government intervention, I think there are some things we can do and I would like your opinion on this. In order not to misuse time, I shall refer to some of the suggestions in my denology. In conclusion, however, I would like to say that the problem is so serious, which I think you should make a visit to Kos and, in cooperation with all the institutions and local authorities, see what we can do. I conclude with a typical sample, to see how big the problem is, how degenerate the tourist product is. In Kos specifically, where I know better, tourists move to business outside, go to taverns, restaurants, even bars, etc. and, when they are called to pay, they answer "but we are all inclusive" and show the bracelet. So much has degenerated the tourist product there.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Madam Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. The whole inclusive, as we know, is a type of holiday with popular packages, which have been established in Greece, as they have been established abroad. Over the last few decades they have been, and, as you have rightly said, a product of private agreements. The type of holiday all inclusive has complete packages of services with semi-food, accommodation services, full meals and so on. Nevertheless, a very large and extensive effort has been made to enable individuals, especially the Hotel Chamber of Commerce, but also private institutions such as SETE and POX, to support all local communities with tourism and the benefits of diffusion to tourist businesses, where there are hotels that have the model all inclusive. However, I have to say that all inclusive throughout Greece represents just 2.2% of all the hotel units in the country and 13.6% of the total capacity in rooms, based on the information we have from the hotel chamber. As I told you, the Ministry is in constant cooperation so that we can have all kinds of tourism. Even in all inclusive hotels there are so many tourists, who, if you like, amplify the completeness of these hotels. I want to be perfectly honest. The effort that has been made by the private sector has also been made. The hotel owners themselves saw that when tourists come and come out to eat in a tavern, take their walk and do not have a full diet in the hotel, they are more loyal and recurring tourists. So they slowly, as you know, made a kind of voucher, which they give to go out to some tavern and enjoy Greek hospitality. It has also become Greek breakfast, which is very important, in order to get products from the local market, to enrich and offer, if you like, something different to tourists and promote Greek products. This programme is also included in the communication policy of the Ministry and of the EOT and we promote it in tourist exhibitions, as I have already informed you. I think it is our possible paper to stimulate local communities and wider economic activity in every Greek destination with new efforts and stable sources of revenue and employment. It is a kind of tourism that has not escaped in Greece. I would hardly say, it is very small in the whole of Greece and these figures are official.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Minister. Mr Kamaterre, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S1-commons.u8	Minister, the number you gave us, that it's 2.2% throughout Greece, I don't question it...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S1-commons.u9	13.6%.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S1-commons.u10	You said it was 2.2%. I'm sorry, Mr. President, because it's important.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S1-commons.u11	I said that all inclusive hotels in Greece account for 2.2% of all hotels in the country and 13.6% of total capacity in rooms.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S1-commons.u12	You're right, because it made me very impressed. Nevertheless, it confirms what I said at the beginning, how a classic example Kos is for all inclusive. Imagine that they are moving over a million tourists in Kos and put the percentage in the thirty we expect. In other words, with the numbers you give us, we will say that the vast majority of all inclusive in Greece operates in Kos. We know there's somewhere else. That is why - I think - you need to give special weight and see what we are doing in Kos. Because neither these examples you have mentioned and are positive, such as the vouchers given to the outside, operate in Kos. We know that the answer should be in the different model that each place needs to follow, taking advantage of the elements it has, and every island that is positive, so that it is not so vulnerable and is one-sided by a way of tourist development, by a particular model. We know that in the areas where we have this problem it takes time to do so. Because alternative forms of tourism need to be developed. For example, in this particular case we could see what is going on with the cruises, what is going on with yachting, what is going on with the other beaches. Also, we can see what happens with the diaries, which can increase the percentage of other tourism beyond all inclusive. That is what I think we need to design and to a certain extent they are done, but I think we need even better planning. But it takes time. The point is that the companies are today narrowing down and particularly under these conditions that I have told you and after the earthquake. What can be done now? You said about the vouchers. These are local agreements issues. There can be a lot of things that can be done, because the hotel owners - you know - suffer from this, when they have to provide everything in the hotel all day. We may be able to take action on spatial planning. In other words, we must make some restrictions - to see this - that in some areas it cannot function in this form. If we can't do that, we need to look for it even better. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm sorry, Mr. President, I need a little more time. At least when we give incentives and subsidies for investment to put the term in the case of companies operating all inclusive system, no State aid will be granted. Finally, and from discussions that we have done down with both the agents and the hotel owners, what would be greatly relieved - not to say that it would also give the solution - is the agreement that could be reached between local business and hotel operators, in particular - are those who close the contracts - and the agents, to leave at least one day free for visitors to leave. This, from discussions we have had, could even be accepted by the agents. To do this, all hotel owners need to cooperate. Because the agents were saying, for example, that they go and talk to a hotel owner and try to set some rules and go with another one and he's completely unprotected. So local society must bend on this matter and that is what you need to help. There should be consultation of the hotel owners and consultation with the agents. And there you can help even more. The mood is positive than they say. Only one day if he stays free for the visitor - alternatively, of course, we will look at the details - will business be very relieved.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr. Cameroon. Madam Minister, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S1-commons.u14	Mr. Colleague, I totally understand what you're saying. These are, however, private trade agreements. Already as a ministry in the last two and a half years, we have been in contact with hotel owners and have discussed with all operators. The SETE is a social partner. It has the SETKE, which are the rooms for rent. It's nine thousand hotels, four, five, three. It has also been with POX, with their trade union body and the hotel chamber too many times this debate. Since, however, the numbers show that in Greece there is no increase in all inclusive and because this offers it to their international clientele, for this type of tourism there is a particular audience that wants it, we have reached out to what you said, that is, they can have Greek breakfast and have the opportunity to get out of the hotel with this so-called voucher, so that they can enjoy the authentic experiences, as well as the Greek hospitality that each place can give. Do not forget, however, that hotels - and I insist - are private businesses. It is at their discretion how to work. Nor can we put rules in advance and tell them that 'this is the way you will go, join to renovate in some programs, as long as you do not all inclusive'. These are market rules. It is impossible to make such an intervention. But what can be done is debate, dialogue, as you said, with tourist agencies, to convince and explain to individuals, who have this kind of tourism, the whole inclusive, how they can benefit when their customers get out in society to have other activities or even to leave money in local society and we are in that direction. Restrictions cannot, however, be made. Do not forget that on an island such as Kos, Rhodes, Corfu, Crete, in these private businesses there are partners, not only are some hoteliers who have these large four-star, five-star or resorts. They are interests of very large tour operators, who operate in this way. So, as you can see, we certainly want to protect this genuine experience that Greece can give tourists, but for our part, all we can do is encourage them to go in this direction, since they too have seen that it is for their benefit in recent years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S1-commons.u15	Do you have anything to tell us about the projection of Kos after the earthquake?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S1-commons.u16	You're absolutely right. I would like to say that I am very proud of the fact that in Kos, since the government took the step, with excellent coordination and with one action, they were immediately restored - in 24 hours - to the problems that have been created. All the ministers who were responsible for safety, health and infrastructure were there. I, in my case, stayed in Athens because I was in direct contact with our embassies abroad and with the offices of the EOT, but also with the tour operators themselves, with whom I must say that we have developed excellent relations, so that they trusted us immediately when we informed them that there was no problem and that Kos is at a regular rate. It is very important to say that there have been no cancellations, a few very few, which have been completed immediately. The most important thing is to say that we have shown readiness, not only the co-legislative ministries and our Ministry and the EOT, but we have also had excellent cooperation with local actors, such as the Hotel Association of Kos and the Region. I do not hide from you that it was a great pleasure to see that the workers of Kos, the ordinary citizens and the tourists responded immediately, so that there would be a temptation to enter the normal pace. I think that we can all have excellent results together and have proved it once again. Thank you very much for the invitation, Mr. Colleague, to come to Kos. I think at 10 o'clock there's an event that I had anyway - long before the earthquake happened - he says I'm coming. I would be very happy to be there when the rhythms are restored and everything is going well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S1-commons.u17	Thank you very much. The debate on the first topical and urgent debate is closed. We now move on to the debate of the first under No 1284-25-2017 topical question of the second parliamentary cycle of Itolokarnania, the Radical Left coalition, Maria Triantafyllos, to the Minister of Tourism, on the Marina Messologou. Ladies and gentlemen, you have two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning to all colleagues and ministers. Thank you very much for the Minister's presence here. We are old acquaintances on this subject, unfortunately. The people tell us the good day's seen since morning. It did seem the good day for Messology Marina and how it should not be seen when an autonomously downside company retakes the project in 2013. It is a well-known history, and I will not repeat it. We had met before, unfortunately, Minister. The law of the transition from the first to the second Convention does not, of course, concern the current leadership of the Ministry. After all, it's not about you and it's about to be judged where it's supposed to be. You know the marina thing very well. I come here today because I want to ask what contractual relationship - because as you well know the second convention has expired on 17-12-2016, I think - this company continues its work there. Let me just remind you that we are talking about a company which, when it had received the project in 2009, did not deposit a guarantee letter, and according to the then leadership - and quite rightly - of the Ministry of Tourism had been automatically declared to be inferior. We're talking about a company that got the project back in 2013. There is a contract between the Ministry of Tourism and this company. There's the Port Fund, I think, a 5%. It has not been done as far as I know - and I would like you to tell me - one of the projects that had to be done, on the basis of the second contract, is not licensed to this company and fines have been imposed, I think, over EUR 1 million for virtual invoices. In any case, I have to say that, nonetheless, this company continues to live in this area, with the well-known problems that exist between the shareholders - you know them very well. I would like, firstly, to ask what contractual relationship this company exists in the port of Messology, because it has not been denounced and if that is possible by the Ministry of Tourism. Of course, I will say here that we should not in any way give up the intervention. We must, in other words, find a solution. I must tell you that the situation in Mesolonghi and in the port is really dramatic. There are contracts with many ships and these ships are leaving because they can no longer berthed there. Interestingly, I will follow your answers and say some things in my dentistry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S1-commons.u19	Thank you. Madam Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S1-commons.u20	Mr President, I'm going to need more time. I definitely have to read the whole history, because it's very important, and it can take me four to five minutes. The tourist port "Marina Messology" was built at the request of the Port Fund of Aetolokarnania, with FEK IV 307 and by decision of the Ministry of Development, in accordance with the provisions of Law 2160/1993. In this context, and as the Marina was located within the port area, a tendering procedure was carried out by the relevant Port Authority for the promotion of a majority investor to undertake the completion and operation of the Messology tourist port pursuant to Article 22 of Law 2971/2001. The company "MARINA MEASOLOGI S.A.", in which the Municipal Port Fund is involved, is 5%. The above company made a contract on 3-3-2009 with the Greek State. Failure to comply with certain conditions led to its self-evident solution on 3-9-2009 and the reintroduction of the use and management of the tourist port of Messology in the management of the Port Fund of the Prefecture of Etolokarnania. The Port Fund submitted on behalf of MARINA MESALOGI S.A. a request for modification of the location of the tourist port, in order to be compatible with new data established due to some already constructed projects. The Ministry of Tourism, with the agreement of the relevant Interministerial Committee on Tourism Ports, adopted the relevant Ministerial Decision to amend the placement decision, with FEK 126/PAP/18-4-2012. Subsequently, the Ministry, on the basis of the Opinions Nos 473/1996, 54/1998 and 781/1998 of the Law Council of the State, had to reconvene a contract for the concession of the Marina to the Port Fund of Atalokarna, either alone or in association with other natural or legal persons, came into contact with the Port Fund. But the last one, for a very long time, has not shown the slightest intention of taking over the management of the tourist port, resulting in a long period of time - which was more than four years, during which the Greek State had no revenue - to maintain a serious and unjustified negligence, such as the lack of a concession, in which the Ministry of Tourism could not collide. Since the competent department of our Ministry was not legally able to grant it to a third party by tendering, due to the fact that the marina in question is located in a port area, but was obliged to conclude a contract either with the port fund concerned or with the company to which it would participate, the only substantial solution that would resolve the above pending issue was the signing of a contract with MARINA MESALOGI S.A., in which the Port Fund still retained 5% of the shares. In fact, the Ministry signed on 17-12-2013 a contract with the company, which promised to implement the projects, as specified in number 5588/4-2012 (LGP 126/184-2012) a positioning amendment decision within the new timeframe set in it. The company, in order to be able to operate partly the part of the marina manufactured, requested partial authorisation from the port. This authorisation, however, was not approved by the Department's department, due to the incorrect topographical diagram, due to shortcomings in the supporting documents and, above all, due to the fact that the environmental study submitted to the competent authority did not agree with the Ministerial Decision amending the placement decision No 5588/4/2012. In addition, following the redefinition of the Agialou and Beach boundary (VEK 50, 7-4-2015) in the area considered by the management body, it was perceived to be an error in the horizontal coordinates accompanying the applicable Ministerial Settlement Amendment Decision. The management body, in order to correct the incorrect coordinates referred to above and to redesign the port (internal road, development of an integrated and functional streaming plan, functionalisation of the lifting, launching and landfill infrastructures, while improving the organisation of the maritime zone, etc.), submitted under number 9840/26-2016 a request for a new placement amendment. Naturally, with the above data, the projects could not be completed within the implementation timetable set out in the contract. The management body has again submitted to our service a request for an extension of the deadline for implementation of these, but it has not proceeded, because, if the above request for modification of the location and approval of environmental conditions is completed and the relevant decision is adopted, an amendment to the concession agreement will be followed and a new timetable for the implementation of the new projects will be provided. The relevant Committee on Tourism Ports at its meeting on 13-7-2016 gave a favourable opinion to the requested modification of location. Its meeting on 23-11-2016 took into account the members of the Aetolokarnania Independent Office's document, which stated that part of the fence of the Messology Marina is within the adjacent public estate BK 822. Following that, the members unanimously agreed to clarify the limits of the public property mentioned above. At the next meeting, on 25.4.2017, a few months ago, members were informed that they were submitted by the Autonomous Office of Athletics for a request to the Messociety Office for correction of errors related to this public property BK 822. We were then notified by the Marina notification body of the corrected registration from the Land register, which does not reflect part of the public property within the terrestrial zone of the Marina. Along with the unsub. 29221/20-6-2017- a month ago, i.e. - a document from the Ministry of Environment and Energy's Department of Environmental Licensing sent the IC of the project to the competent authority. As the Region of Western Greece informed us, the start date and end of the procedure and the sending of views was set from 11-7-2017 to 12-9-2017. Once this process of publicisation has been completed, the joint decision of Tourism and Energy Ministers will be promoted to change the location and approval of the marina's environmental conditions, as planned. It will be followed by its amendment from 17-12-2013 concession contract in order to integrate the new data of the project.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Triantafel, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. I expect and look forward to a substantial dialogue and not to parallel monologues. "Greece is the country of parallel monologues", as George Seferis said. What are we learning today? We're talking about a play, the Messology Marina. I'm really going to appeal to common sense. It has started in 2009 by a company. This company does not give a guarantee letter. Did the Port Fund fail? Didn't he have the part? I agree. The company retakes the project in 2013. You are now telling me - I did know - that he made a request for a new placement because of incorrect caucus coordinates. Do you know when the final boundaries of the sanctuary have been captured? That's what I think the Department should look into. I won't say anything else here. But I'll tell you something else. When the new placement request becomes, I think on 26-4-2016, that is a few months before the end of the contract, when the boundaries of the cavalry have been captured - can you see it, your services can tell you - and when it is so much a matter and we are bringing it back again with share capital - and you know the dispute between the shareholders - 60,000 euros, I would like to ask the Ministry, since you will give or give the OK to the new placement, with which insurances you think this project can be completed? This work cannot be completed. It is common secret in the city of Messology, as well as in the whole of Aetolokarnania. I say again that I call for common sense. I would also like to say this. You said that environmental conditions are needed which, in any case, will take and there will be a process which flows and which actually leaves a company which is not licensed, has established infringements and in which, once again, fines have been imposed, to sail in the port of Messology. I will say again that, rightly enough, the Port Fund should not be indifferent, but the contract is between the Ministry of Tourism and that company. I say all this because, look, we are talking about growth and even about fair growth, and we know that this kind of agreement is already unequal, if you think that by reading - I am sure you are aware of it - the second convention, this company, since it is doing the works, has taken advantage of forty-three years. Watch what we tell the world today. That there is a company, which since 2009 has been trying to build a project, which I think was for 5 million euros, and has not finished. They are now almost eight to ten years and we are still making papers without, I say, having the necessary control. We cannot really think that this project will be completed, apart from all others, since the two shareholders have such differences. How will the share capital grow? You know there's a lot of charges and intercategories between them. You know very well what's going on. I believe, however, that there must be safeguards for the completion of the project and that they do not exist. If they exist, I'd like to hear them. Let me say one last thing, because of course this case has to go another way. I see from parliamentary control that nothing can come of it. If we are not all fighting for transparency together, the gaps that exist will be covered, either by factors or by eagle contractors, but by other state-runs, who know how to enter a region, bend it, have no sanctions and continue to act unnecessarily. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, my colleague. Madam Minister, you have the floor. I would ask that we be in dentistry within time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Your Honor, you're right. It is a project that has been dragging too many years and is not the only one. The Ministry of Tourism, however, had to do its best for the public interest. In this case, therefore, the Ministry, as I told you in my prototype, did not have the right to a contract with a third party, apart from the Municipal Port Fund, which is the management body or the company that was involved in the Municipal Port Fund. From that point on, however, we as Ministry of Tourism never gave our own permission. There is a Committee on Tourist Ports. This consists of two - three ministries. They now had to, since, as I said in my prototype, there were too many issues that had been delaying this process, to change the placement. With regard to the functioning of the port, which you have said, without authorisation, the relevant department of the Ministry has repeatedly informed in writing all stakeholders, such as the Messology Port Authority, which has done well, the headquarters of the Port Authority, the Naval Group of Messologists, the Municipality of Messology, Marina Messology, the Chief Inspector of Public Administration and the Prosecutor of Messology that a tourist port is not legalised to operate and collect without the authorised permission of Article 31 of Law 2160/1993. It's known. The Municipal Port Fund is responsible for confirming or denounce any such activity. Therefore, the body managing the marina should, upon completion of the works approved by the Ministerial Decision of the placement and of the amendment, arrange for the issuing of a licence and of a special rules of operation thereof. By quoting these events, the individual problems that have interrupted the progress of the Messology Marina and the actions taken to correct the failures and to complete the project are analysed. Due to the active interest of the company in solving individual problems created in order for the Marina to function, it has so far not been appropriate to terminate a contract by the Ministry of Tourism, which will create a new gap in the management of the Marina zone. This is because the Ministry of Tourism does not have the right to auction the project, which, on the basis of Law 2971/2002 and the relevant opinions, is reserved only in the port fund concerned. If the latter does not proceed to a new tender notice, as the previous experience of 2009-2013 shows, or if the new contractor is not found, the result will be a loss of revenue of the Greek State, since there will be no concession contract with the Greek State in force. The primary role of the Ministry of Tourism is to ensure that the project is implemented legally, to make it operational and sustainable, to ensure order and legality, while at the same time promoting marine tourism in the ecosystem of the Ionian Sea, Corinthian, where there is a great flow of tourists with pleasure boats. The Ministry of Tourism has taken all the steps it had to take under law. I know it's complicated. I know it's too many years. It was, however, the only way for this marina to be spaced and moved forward. Everything that the Ministry of Tourism did was on the basis of the responsibilities it had legally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S1-commons.u25	Thank you very much to the Minister who was here to answer the two topical questions concerning her. Before we move to the next timely question, which concerns Mr Famello, I would like to say the questions which will not be debated as a result of a three-parliamentary and sixteen-member blockade. The eighteenth under number 1112/28-6-2017 topical question by MP Larissa of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas to the Minister for Administrative Reconstruction on the subject: ‘Is the digital signature to be applied as from 1 July 2017?’ It will not be debated because of an impediment to the honourable Member. The third, with number 1255/18-7-2017, a topical question by the MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Notable problems for citizens and local authorities will be discussed due to the failure of the MEP. Also, the third, with number 1254/18-7-2017, is the first question of the MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odyssea Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the coastline exclusion of Kythera and Antikythera from Piraeus, Gythio and Crete, will not be discussed, due to the impediment of the MP questioner. The second question under number 128525-7-2017, the first question of the Greek MP, Mr. Savvas Anastasiades, to the Minister of Health, on the operation of the New Mdytos Health Centre, will not be discussed, due to the obstruction of the Minister of Health, Mr. Andreas Xanthi, on the cause of parallel parliamentary duties, and will not be redefined for discussion. Also the second question under number 1286/25-2017 of the New Democracy MP, George Stylios, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "A loan of EUR 138 million from the European Investment Bank (EIB) for the construction and renovation of buildings and facilities in PI" will not be discussed, due to the impediment of the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs Mr. Konstantinos Gavroglou, due to a workload, and will be redefined for discussion. We will continue with the topical and urgent questions that will be discussed and during the sitting I will be announcing the other questions that will not be discussed. We are now going to the fourth with no. 1260/24-7-2017 a top-level question for the first-round question of the Athens Parliamentary II of the Independent Greeks Mr. Athanasios Papachristopoulos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the serious dimensions of the matter of the volunteers in the Corinthian and Patraikos Gulf. Mr. Comrade, you have two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. At the moment when we are talking, my Minister, two New Democracy MPs - and rightly, in my opinion - have raised the matter: Mr Dimas and another Member who is missing his name from Patras. Manolis Kefaloyannis in the European Parliament has also raised the issue correctly, in my opinion. There's, you know, the idea because it's a tourist season not to talk much. I am not in agreement with this view because what was to be done is, in the summer, in a month and there is no point in sculpting the problem under the rug. In order to be clearer, because I also have opposing views and have them here in front of me, I would just like to remind you that the President of the United States is questioning the ecological disaster and the ecological problem publicly. He's right, and he's judged for it. There are Greek scientists who speak a medium-sized language, Minister, of "yes, but". First of all, it is not my constituency, the Corinthian Gulf, because I am elected to Athens and it is of great importance. But I live there, I grow up there, my house is next to the beach, and I have a personal opinion. The view that 'yes, but' 'it's not so much overfishing', 'it's not so much red mud', 'it's not so hot water' seems to me, Minister. I am speaking with evidence and the figures are: within two days literally they have risen from the Corinthian ninety tons of fish. That is something that no one can question. It means thirty thousand fish, half of which are female. The offspring that have these fish are around a million a year old. That is, fifteen billion off-the-jobs disappear. This explains the second element, that we have a reduction in fish around 1000%. We could make a comparison with what was happening fifteen or twenty years ago. Therefore, the medium-sized language that ‘yes’ does not apply. Is it just overfishing the cause? Oh, no. Oddly enough, these sluts - now we're not going to do a plankton analysis, etc. - They never existed before, they disappeared. Allow me, I tell you, to say this, because I live there, my house is right next to the sea. I live in these parts, and I know them firsthand. I would also like to tell you that fish of the type of head restraint - we are not now analysing, the fishermen know - have disappeared almost completely. They don't exist in the Corinthian Gulf. There are two other factors, too, that work like a succumber's thermostat. First, it is the hot water that extends to four square kilometers from where it falls -- and well it does. First of all, you don't talk to a sick economist. I'm in favour of development and so forth. Because whoever deals with this, we wonder if he's a crazy economist. No, I'm not a crazy economist. I'm a realist, and I'm telling you that hot water extends four square kilometers from where it falls across from us. Also, red mud filters came in, but they only catch the dust. The rest don't get it. We're talking about a dead bottom. So both of these are thermostats for this plankton plus the fish that disappeared, which would eat. Not to tell you what they eat, say, dolphins, tone, head, all the big fish that overfishes. I think it's a very big deal, and I would like, without risking it, to tell you this: at the moment, all the bathers are with a drop in their hand and they catch the shoe, because they have little children. Also, for young children, I want to say something you don't know, without jeopardizing. A kid like he doesn't have developed arms and legs, so he doesn't have developed defense. I say it because I'm a doctor. You and I know if we're allergic and we're guarded. But a two, three, four, five, six years old hasn't developed his defense. So in his contact with a skate can have a mild effect, which is the usual, 90%, but it may not happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S1-commons.u27	If you want, Mr. Colleague, finish it. You've been talking like a protology for five minutes already.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S1-commons.u28	Mr President, this is a very big issue. It concerns four regions and four counties.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S1-commons.u29	You have your dentistry, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S1-commons.u30	It's a big deal. Because in this trick there are thousands of shops that are being narrowed at the moment, the proposal made by your consultant, Yiannis Kazoglou, Minister - and I have listened with great pleasure - and also by the SYRIZA Parliament, Katerina Igleze, is in agreement with me. I think it takes an incision, because there can be no immediate solution, and I want to hear your answer. I believe that if this vagina enters the NATURA programme, the whole region will shine, because it has many hotels and tourism and it is a hundred miles [100 km]. I reserve myself in my dentext for the rest, and I would like to see how you see this whole issue that has already emerged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S1-commons.u31	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, let me make a comment on the nominations on the Members' side. I was informed this morning about the coma of the honourable Member and, in any case, I amended a programming, which was completely unexpected to me. We're talking about the ministers that don't come. I'll say, why are things suddenly changing?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S1-commons.u33	We have mentioned it and mentioned it last time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S1-commons.u34	But that is a matter for colleagues. It is not about the Bureau, which is obviously organising the debate. My dear colleague, you raise a big issue and you have raised it for a long time, in that you have put all the parameters and obviously I too cannot answer them alone, because there are too many of the issues you have raised. It is a matter that has been locally identified for Patraikos and Corinthian since May. We have since begun to deal with this issue much more specifically. It's not just about the Corinthian and the Patronian. It is about the planet as a whole, and in particular the Mediterranean, and I must tell you that we are monitoring it very closely. I, too, have been meeting with the President of the Corinthian Association of Protection and Orthological Management 15 days ago and many working meetings have been held at the Ministry, as you mentioned. It is a matter of ecosystem and a matter of local development at the same time and it is not a single-marked issue, it is multimetric. You have referred to some of the issues that affect it. Let me conclude by ending the finding of the problem and perhaps in my dentistry I will go further. Therefore, the phenomenon of the presence of lentils is not new for the Mediterranean and especially for the Aegean Sea. It is a phenomenon which recurs every eight to twelve years - there are periodic reports - with large circles and population explosions. It is influenced by the prevailing winds and the streams of the seas, which alter the frequency and density of the phenomenon. There were winds that led the medestas to the Corinthian, as there was a period of recession that we recorded in early July, because they are linked to this phenomenon of strong winds. However, population outbursts are due to deeper causes, which are biological and ecological. It is about how it develops and how it interacts with the bio- and abiotic environment. In many areas of the world, it has been identified that the population density of the medulus is linked to overfishing, as you mentioned, while climate change plays a very crucial role in the problem that we are facing. The first element: Meadows are reproduced in hot months and hot seasons. The change due to climate change of average temperature in the Aegean and Patraikos has affected, as have mild winters and hot springs and autumn months, the reproductive profile has been altered, if you like, and has extended the breeding period. It will no longer be strange to start locating drunkards in the winter months. It's something we can see. The global warming, however, also alters movements in the seas - sea currents and winds - and we have seen luxuries in areas that we have not had so far. On the other hand, if we leave climate change, the correlation between pollution and overcrowding of meadows cannot be ruled out, particularly in the case of nutrients, namely nitrogen and phosphorus, and not in metal or toxic elements, because in this case we may also have toxic effects in meadows. In nutrients, however, there is a connection as regards, if you like, pollution and mutation that may happen or proliferation of reproduction. In any case, the reduction of the PH in the seas, which is also affected by the carbon dioxide of climate change, also accelerates the reproduction of meadows. I must tell you that in some areas, for example in the Thermaikos, we have linked the overflow of the plant plating with the meadows, another type of meadows from what you have seen in the Corinthian and Patraikos. However, I should like to say that at 99% of our country's coastline, according to official measurements that we made last week, there is no question of pollution. We have the highest quality seas and this is an advantage, it is a resource for development for our country. So what measures should one take to discuss a subject that is both climate change, ecological, ecological, and environmental, linked to fishing, the economic activity of fishing and tourism, and obviously also to the treatment of waste water? So we have prepared interventions at all levels. Obviously the first and major is our country's firm and unnegotiable position on the front of combating climate change and preventing phenomena. We have voted first in the Greek Parliament - we are, I think, in the first ten countries of Europe - the Paris Convention, we have been placed at the last Council of Ministers in favour of returning and calling the United States back to this debate and obviously in favour of the need for Europe to be a pioneer in the fight against climate change. We believe that this is a crucial issue for the survival of the planet and the economy. There is potential through the economy and through environmental adaptation to create new jobs. Climate change is not contrary to work, as some may mean. On the other hand, however, we have prepared three interventions: one is at the ecological level, the other is direct protection measures and the third is the treatment of waste water in the region. I will, however, analyse them more quickly then in my dentext, so that I do not consume time now, in accordance with your initial remarks.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Minister. I would like to say before we continue to say that we are in the middle of the process and because of the commitments which are being made and of the Members who follow, we are exhausted - because we have this possibility - of time, we have flexibility, but I would like to ask you to keep up with the times as much as possible so that we can finish up on time so that we can continue with legislative work. Mr. Papachristopoulos has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S1-commons.u36	Minister, I listened carefully. The issue of climate change is long and is not dealt with from one day to the next. You know that better than I do. It's a big deal. At the moment, we are not talking about global warming, which is given and which we all agree with, except Trump, and which actually has its consequences in the ecological, underwater environment. But we are talking about immediate measures, because this phenomenon has erupted in recent years. You will allow me, with all my respect, to say that the theory that the currents are responsible - I have heard it from Mr Christou, who I think is an expert on oceanography - does not agree with me. I believe that this is a compromise, which is not about the immediate measures to be taken, and I insist very much that there are only 6% of sea parks in the NATURA radius. I think that the SYRIZA Member, Mr Iglezi, and your consultant, are also discussing this. Because for me the solution cannot be immediate, but it can be in the next quarter by four months. At least next summer to finish this story. So I think we should stop overfishing, which some devalue, I don't. I know we're flying. There are people who have interests. The trawlers are organizing at the moment and I inform you that the port does not even have ships to see them and to deal with them. They work with GPS and they know they're doing illegal. I am sorry, but the state must face up to this culture and end this story of overfishing, which I insist on. As for the other two parameters, it is scientifically proven that the warm environment and in general the seabed pollution are a thermostat for these planktons. I would therefore like to hear whether you really think about the proposal on how to organise the NATURA project. It is not about my constituency, it is about four counties and four regions. We are talking about a very large population - not to risk saying a number, because I may be wrong - and I think the reaction should be immediate and tangible. We all know the argument about climate change, Minister, and we fight it, but we are a very small country to influence it. However, we can immediately influence the survival of the Corinthian and Patraiko Gulf through the NATURA project. I consider this to be a very positive proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr Papachristopoulos. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S1-commons.u38	I'll try to be brief too. I said I would continue and analyse further. So I am going through these measures, because for climate change I told you in my first answer. I would like to inform you of the second measure - after our firm position on climate change - regarding the protection of the ecological stock of the Corinthian Gulf. From the notorious straight connecting Psathopyrgos to the Nafpatto until the Isth of Corinth in August, the integration of the region into the European Network of Protected Areas "NATURA 2000" by a joint ministerial decision of the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Rural Development is expected. This is not just an environmental need, a need for development, but also a formal obligation for our country. We will therefore have a typical European obligation coverage, but we intend to restore and improve the ecological functions of the marine region, through a control of economic activities, which will be developed, but with specific rules, and of course to monitor better the environmental parameters, i.e. there will also be a management body in this region. The Corinthian Gulf is a very important area for certain habitats, for example the Poseidonian meadows, the trags, which have coral-profugated habitats, and of course we also have species of wild fauna. I shall mention the dolphins and two species of sea turtle that we have in the Corinthian Gulf, which are indeed species which are also fed by mice and which are therefore of particular interest to us. The strengthening of the legal framework for the Corinthian region, of course, is not only its integration into the NATURA area network, but also the forthcoming amendment of the legislative framework for the protected areas, which our Ministry plans for October, which, for the first time, our country will finally acquire environmental protection bodies. Because I have to inform you that for ten years they have been actors in the NRP's start-up programmes. They didn't exist. They started off for ten years, with staff without stable employment and without stable structures. Therefore, two measures will be taken to integrate the region and the body, but at the same time I would like to inform you: Firstly, we are developing a programme for two hundred biological cleansing and sewage in small settlements over the next three years for Greece, a budget of 1 billion. Because our country will have a fine in 2020 if it does not do what we are doing now and have not been for decades, Mr President. But I would like to tell you something else that is interesting: we are promoting a direct legislative initiative, in cooperation with the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy. We are struggling to make it this week and I am announcing it now in Parliament. We will take the responsibility - if we can - of the amendment at the last minute, so that we can place floating means of protecting bathers so that tourist facilities on the shores which are too crowded to put nets - which have already been purchased - can also have a direct measure. So the measures we take are both for climate change and for NATURA and a body to protect and sewage was created, which had never been done, and which are located in the area. I think it is a full strategy and an integrated programme of measures.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S1-commons.u39	Your answer, Minister, is very satisfying.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S1-commons.u41	Thank you very much. The Minister's being released too. Before entering the next time-limited question that will be discussed, I will go to the reading of questions which will not be discussed as a result of the attendance of the main ministers. The fourth question under number 1257/21-7-2017 of the Independent MEP II of Athens Mr.Theocharis Theocharis to the Minister of Finance, concerning the taxation of public benefits and charitable institutions, will not be discussed, due to a workload of the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Catherine Papanatsiou, who cannot come to answer the current question. Also, the first question with number 4557/28-03-2017 question of the cycle of petitions and questions by the Independent MEP Mr. Dimitrios Koukoutsis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Excessive the number of legacy denials", will not be discussed due to a workload of the Deputy Minister of Finance Mr. Ikaterini Papanatsiou. The fifth under No 1219/12-2017 topical question by the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The commitments to the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the prerequisites for the evaluation without informing Parliament", will not be discussed due to the impediment of Minister Tsakalotou, who, due to a workload, cannot come to answer. Nor will the eighth be discussed under number 1119/3-7-2017, a topical question from the new Vice-President of the Parliament and MEP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance, concerning the theft of electricity, due to the impediment of the Minister Mr. Tsakalotou, who, due to a workload, cannot come to answer. The ninth question under number 1032/16-6-2017 will not be discussed in the ninth session of the Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of Parliament II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance, regarding the bet companies, due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance Mr. Tsakalotou. In addition, the tenth question under number 1026-2017 of the Independent MEP Mr. Dimitrios Koukoutsis will not be discussed with the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Prospects and needs of the International Airports of Kalamata", due to the impediment of the Minister, Mr. Tsakalotou. We will not discuss the thirteenth question, number 931/2-6-2017, on the grounds of the obstruction of Minister Tsakalotos, Mr. Tsakalotos, on the issue of SIEMENS. We will not discuss the fourteenth question with number 924/1-6/2017 in the second question of the Athens Parliamentary II of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Helen Zarulias to the Minister of Finance on "the appointment of a judiciary to the administration of the Supreme Council", due to the impediment of the Minister, Mr. Tsakalotos. Also, there will not be a debate on the sixth under number 948/6-2017 a topical question by MP II Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Athanasios Vardalis on the Greek Vehicle Industry (ELVO S.A.), due to the impediment of the Minister, Mr. Tsakalotos. Now we will discuss the second question with number 5388/4-5-2017 question of the cycle of petitions and questions by the Member of Parliament, Achaias, New Democracy, Jason Fotilla, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Would excavations be improved this year in Ancient Eliq?" Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S1-commons.u42	Mr President, first of all, I should like to congratulate you and wish you a success in your new duties.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S1-commons.u43	Thank you very much, be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S1-commons.u44	The truth is that when I opened the door and saw you in this particular position, I was very pleased, because I believe that on the side of the Centron Association it was the best possible option, which I have honoured with my vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S1-commons.u45	I'm honored by what you're saying. Thank you very much, be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S1-commons.u46	Madam Minister, first I would like to thank you for your presence today. However, starting with I cannot fail to point out that almost three months have passed since I tabled a written question under parliamentary scrutiny on the issue of Ancient Helick and even today I have not received an answer. I will keep the positive part that I have the opportunity to talk to you by living. I am sure that a common denominator to both of us is the emergence of our cultural heritage and the development of Ayyale - the latter may have more interest in me. About the excavations and the gravity of the findings of Ancient Eliklis, I'm obviously not the most competent person to speak. However, a careful look at the international press is enough to understand how important the discovery of Ancient Eliky, the capital of Achaia in ancient times is. I therefore present a series of articles published in the international press, such as 'HISTORY CHANNEL', 'New York Times', in the German 'ZDF', which testify to the value of the archaeological findings and the international resonance acquired by an ancient city, which has not yet come to the surface. It's really impressive. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Jason Fotillas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned articles, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But, Minister, such stories, such excavations must always have. Since 2013, when the second five-year program of the excavations has been completed, the Ancient Eliq case has been frozen. Written, I would say, reasons have frozen the work, when an entire scientific community is looking forward to developments. Believe me, it is not only the scientific community that awaits the continuation of the excavations, it is also the whole of Aegialia waiting for this project to begin, since early my compatriots have perceived the development potential given to our place at all levels, such as new jobs, development of tourism and local businesses and above all recognition of Aegialia as an international tourist destination. Ancient Eliqi in this direction, as you understand it, will make a maximum contribution. I have in my hands, Minister, the conclusion of the Public Administration Inspectors' Corps, the official department of the Ministry of Justice. I do not put it down, because I think it goes without saying that you have it too. But I have it here and, if you don't, I can give it to you. It therefore concludes that, after thorough inspection of the service, there is no legitimate reason to interrupt the excavations in Ancient Eliky. The ministerial decisions, and especially that of 2015, should, says the finding, be re-issued and the excavations and geo-archaeological investigations carried out unnecessarily. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I request your tolerance for a moment, Mr President. I say this because in 2015, with the findings of the Public Administration Inspectors, one of the inclusive terms that the CSR set out and the ministerial decision of 2015 included are being abolished. It really makes me wonder, Minister, if it takes so much time to agree to the self-evidently, that the investigations must continue and that, as long as we are late, we deprive our country of one more reason to feel proud. I didn't come here today in a war mood. I come to you as a man of culture, who knows very well what cultural heritage means and ancient Greece. I am well aware that, beyond the legality which I represent every day, but you too respect and apply, we are given the opportunity to offer, through the work of the excavators, not only in the local society of Agialia, but also in traditions, in the history of our country. For the above reasons, then, I would like you to answer, Minister, by comparison: Firstly, why does the Ministry not allow for the continuation of excavations, especially after the conclusion of the Public Administration Inspectors' College? Secondly, will the issue of a permit for the start of excavation projects in the excavation period of 2017 go ahead? What action will you take to continue the work of the scientific team as soon as possible? What's the timeline for that? Finally, Minister, does the Ministry intend to strengthen the excavation investigations in Ancient Eliqe and, if so, in what way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S1-commons.u47	Madam Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. There is no doubt that our cultural heritage can, beyond its great importance in itself, be a lever for development in areas where significant findings are revealed. However, there is the law, which we must follow and provide for certain procedures. This story has a long series of data since the 1980s. I will not deal with the historical quote of the facts. However, there have been several ministerial decisions since 2011 on the request for geo-archaeological investigations. The last request, which was made for the geo-archaeological investigations and excavations in Ancient Eliki by the Geology Department of the University of Patras for the period 2013-2017, was examined in 2013 by the Central Archaeological Council and issued the relevant ministerial decision on 17-7-2013. In accordance with that decision, only geo-archaeological work was approved and it was stated that excavations or other test areas were not carried out. The reason for the exception of the excavations is that the Department of Geology at the University of Patras is not a research or educational body specializing in archaeological research. According to the archaeological law, only research or educational bodies specialising in archaeological research may carry out excavations. Therefore, according to the law, the University of Patras is legitimate to carry out only the geo-archaeological part of the research programme, but not the excavation. The Ministerial Decision of the following year, that is, 2014, laid the exact same conditions. The application, then, was not accepted by the Ministry for the same reason: the Department of Geology is not legitimate to conduct excavation investigations. In 2015, following a new request for excavation, a meeting of the parties involved was held at the initiative of the Ministry and was proposed to the interested parties that the investigation be conducted in cooperation with the local Antiquities Bureau in order to participate in the program that the archaeological part of the investigation should be entitled to carry out. However, this proposal, unfortunately, was not accepted by the interested parties. On the contrary, the interested parties, as you said, appealed to the College of Public Administration Inspectors against the relevant opinion of the CSCE, and even before the adoption of the relevant ministerial decision. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] I need some more time, Mr President. On the second question, the Public Administration Inspectors’ College has submitted a conclusion proposing, inter alia, the revocation of the ministerial decision issued following the latest opinion of the CAR and the adoption of a new one, according to the request. It should be stressed that, in accordance with the Law of 2005, Article 14(7), but also with the opinion of the Legal Board of State -28-4-2016 in a document from the Legal Adviser of the Ministry of Culture - these reports, such as the College of Public Administration Inspectors, are of an advisory nature to the services, whereas they commit themselves to specific actions only when disciplinary misconduct occurs, which is not the case here. Also, as regards the legality of the decision, the Legal Adviser's Office gave a affirmative reply. He said that this was a legitimate decision. Therefore, the service could not withdraw a legitimate decision. For the third question, I'm going to go on with my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S1-commons.u49	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Fotella, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, first of all, we must stress that the effort to excavate in Ancient Eliki from the University of Patras and the relevant scientific body fulfils all the conditions laid down by the law. The Geology Department of the University of Patras belongs to the Department of Paleotology. It is therefore in line with the relevant legislation. I am tabling the relevant Minutes, according to which it is not true what has obviously been said to you. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Jason Fotillas, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would also agree with you that the Public Administration Inspectors' College has not as consultative as I would say, of a character. But the CAS, Minister, has the same. I guess you know that. They have exactly the same opinion. In fact, he says it on the front page on his website. That's well known. So I do not understand why you do not accept the Council's decision and accept the CSCE's decision. Bad lies, Minister. We know it and you know it: You have the knife and you have the melon. At the end of the day you should decide on all this. Everyone else is consultative. In 2013 the subject of excavations froze and began the appeals and conflicts for ministerial decisions and their legitimacy. In 2015, therefore, the findings of the Public Administration Inspectors’ Body came out. I think that where we have to stand is the contents of the finding, because that is really the legal interest. It is the point where we should focus, as a number of wrong decisions by the Culture Ministers were taken, and the only ones affected by these decisions were the citizens of Aegialia and the emergence of Ancient Helice. I imagine that you will agree with me, Minister, that in the first ten years we cannot go illegally and all previous decisions and opinions of the CSCE, which you refer to, have all been illegal. Because with them we went for the first decade of the project, from 2003 to 2013. It is at the moment a given fact that we cannot question it and I think that neither are you questioning it. Minister, the issue of Ancient Helikia cannot be discussed at the offices and at the ministries. It should be discussed at conferences and conferences. That would be positive. Today's intervention has a dual purpose: on the one hand, the emergence of a monument of cultural heritage, which we must not hold to obscurity, and on the other hand, the emergence of the wider region of Agialia in economic terms. One last thing. You know and I will say this again - and I will close with that - that despite all the opinions, the findings, the rulings of the courts, it is your will that will in the end count. That's the law. So your decision is also waiting for us and what I'm asking you is whether you're going to contribute to whether and how then to restart the excavations in Ancient Elike. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr. Fotella, actually, in time. Madam Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S1-commons.u52	Thank you. I think I'll have to make a reference to the past, because it'll enlighten us. This investigation at the Ministry was the reason why we were unable to answer your question at the time you requested. However, this research is very enlightening. Research in Ancient Eliqi began in the 1980s as a research, first of all, geological with archaeological purposes and developed into research with geological and archaeological excavation. Its organization was originally the American School of Classical Studies, while since 2000 it has been the University of Patras - Geology Department, in collaboration or under the supervision of the Archaeological Service. From the record of our service it appears that during the course of the investigation there were problems of cooperation between the researchers' representatives at the University of Patras and the service. The problems are summarized in serious disagreements on the methods of excavation and expansion of sections - I will not expand, there are many details of this - and, secondly, non-compliance with the terms of the Ministerial Decisions. In recent years, it has been a key point of disagreement between the services that I have told you that it is not linked to a scientific body that is legitimate to conduct archaeological research. Therefore, there are decisions that have been in parallel since 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014, which raise precisely these problems of cooperation. It's not a present problem. I can assure you that the Ministry of Culture and Sport is prepared and wishes to continue this work. However, they must be done with respect to the law, with cooperation with the Achaia Antiquities Board and, in addition, with the possibility of protecting the findings, so that they do not risk the report. The Ministry met the applicants for the excavation with the condition of cooperation, applying the law. By respecting the law and all the stakeholders, we are constantly striving to find a commonly accepted and legitimate solution, with the sole aim of protecting antiquities and cultural heritage, in the spirit of goodwill and cooperation. There are correspondence to which the FAO representatives have replied unilaterally and personally. But we are expecting the official submission of the request from the University of Patras. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Minister. Before we move to the last question for today, I will tell you the questions which will not be discussed. The sixth question under number 1251/18-7-2017 of the F Vice President of the Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister of Health, concerning the non-payment of employees of the company "SYKOS PIMM". & CIA E.C.' at Larissa University Hospital, will not be discussed due to the obstruction of Mr. Deputy Minister of Health Mr. Polakis. The cause is the workload. For the same reason, we will not discuss the seventh question with the Minister of Health No 1246/18-7-2017. The Fifteenth under number 1181/7-7-2017 topical question by MP II of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Application of measures in favour of small savers who lost their money with the "haircut" of the debt in 2012, will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Finance Mr. Georgios Huliarakis. The cause is the workload. Eleventh, under number 976-6-2017, a topical question from the Plenipotentiary Halkidiki of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Save Vlachos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Halkidiki Law Municipal Deficiencies are jeopardising the lives of citizens", is not being discussed due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Health Mr. Paul Polakis. Finally, the twelfth question under number 923/1-6-2017 of the People's League MP - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Pappas to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Fulfilment of the Order of the Nation", is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Education, Research and Religion Mr. Konstantinos Gavroglou. We enter the seventeenth - last for today - with number 1186/10-7-2017 a timely question for the second cycle of MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Triantafylides, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: 'Hazard mark broadcasts by the Thermaikos Gulf - Emergency Programme for Active Intervention'. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Home Affairs, Maria Collia-Charuha. Last but not least, Mr President, I do not want you to complain. Here, Mr. Triantafylides, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President. Good power in your work.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S1-commons.u55	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S1-commons.u56	So let us say that this question is the definition of the timely question, since its material has already been presented by media reports. I would just like to remind you, for the criticism it has been made, that no one has spoken, everyone has silenced that two years ago, on 5 May 2015, the questioner today and the speaker have asked and spoke and raised the question 'of pollution - decontamination - pollution - sources of pollution, decontamination measures for the Thermaikos', because then there was the phenomenon of eutrophication, the red tide, the phytoplankton, the floating land in the seayard of Thessaloniki. Then, as today, the Minister was willing and kind to come and present and unfold the measures of government policy. Of course, he will have the possibility today of explaining and interpreting and essentially answering the second question, what has happened in the meantime, what measures have been implemented. We should give the identity of the matter. We are talking about the Thermaikos Gulf, the largest Gulf of the Aegean, where the country's second largest urban centre is located. Two of the largest tourist zones are developed: from left to right, Kassandra, the first leg of Halkidiki, from right to right, Pieria, Pieria and Olympus. The largest of the Greek cross-border rivers are in the Thermaikos Gulf: Aliakmonus, Axis, Loudias and French. We are also talking about certain areas protected by the Ramsar Treaty, such as the Adequate Delta - Aliakmon. To give a class measure, let us say that in the Gulf coastal zone, 50% of the population of central Macedonia lives, 10% of the country. In the same area around 18% of the country's manufacturing base and production are produced. Just give me one marker. In the Thermaic Gulf, 90% of shells are produced at national level. So, Mr President, Minister, in order to understand that environmental protection is a capable, necessary and irreplaceable prerequisite for any productive investment initiative. To say it differently, growth, without environmental protection, does not exist. Environmental protection, entrepreneurship, new investment, new productive tourists, go hand in hand. Let me give an example: On the days when this floating dump was present - fortunately the bardar was blown and cleaned and underground water currents made their debt - most of the stores were not working, why would who go to sit in a restaurant or go to buy products from an area that was tortured not only visually, but also in terms of dysosmia? The half the city of Thessaloniki had a problem with dysosmia. Pollution and pollution are an enemy of entrepreneurship that wants to exploit the comparative advantages of Thessaloniki. What is the situation today? Just in front of the monument - a symbol of the city, the White Tower, the sea has been turned into a dump and with the parallel intense dysosmia that prevails, conditions are created that are inconsistent with the principles of sustainable development that we are called upon to serve. Unfortunately, the Thermaikos Gulf mussel, the sea court of Thessaloniki, gives the image of a floating landfill - eutrophication, phytoplankton, red tide - both for citizens and tourists. There are sources of pollution and we want specific answers about what has happened in the two years since the first answer, Minister. Source first: Nitrate fertilisers and pesticides through rivers that end up in the Thermaic. Are they handled? Source: Conservative sewage in Pella and Imathia, hot drink via 'Tafros 66' and then in Thermaikos. That's where they end up. Are they handled? Are the biological cleansing of the factories that we are discussing, that is, today, in the form of their manufacturing process? Question 3: The waste water of tanners, which is unexploded, is spilled through the moat of the Treepotamos in the Thermaikos. Let us say here that this is not the responsibility of the Ministry of Macedonia - Thrace. The responsibility of the Region of Central Macedonia is enormous, and the authorities of the region of central Macedonia are obliged to do something practical, effective and immediate, in addition to public relations. Fourth source of pollution: The low-periphery pipeline near the area of Macedonia's CATEL, which has never been connected to the central drainage pipeline to transport the urban waste water to the biological purification of Sindos. It's the second branch. The question is whether or not this second branch will finally be linked to the biological cleansing of Sindos. We did not get enough of what we had, but we also had the K-16 contractor who was nicely inaugurated, but this contractor broke an extra pipeline, which also unprocessed its wastewaters, under the responsibility of the Region of Central Macedonia. I'm talking about the vegetable market area. It's K-16. A sixth element is the manoeuvres of the pan-horizontal sewage system that, when we have flooding phenomena, send a piece, part of the urban sewage to the front of the city, the sea court. My question - and I will go back to my dentistry - is whether we can practically, apply measures not only for visual pollution, ALKIPPI and PERSSEFONI, treat these six sources of pollution on this particular level, so that, Minister, our maritime court does not give the feeling that we Thessalonians, city and state, citizens with environmental consciousness and state, have turned our backs to the Thermaikos or even worse that we have made the Thermaic backyard of our home where we put unused, outdated, old ones. It shouldn't be like that. In my dentistry, I'm going to raise other issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S1-commons.u57	The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S1-commons.u58	You must give me more time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S1-commons.u59	We've all shown tolerance, so you won't be wronged either.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S1-commons.u60	I would also like to congratulate you, Mr President. Have health and enlightenment to direct the work of the House. I have been naughty in this position, I am honoured - as my colleagues have done - and I understand your role and your obligations very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S1-commons.u61	You honor me. Be well. Thank you very much. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S1-commons.u62	Dear Mr Triantafylides, you have asked and answered many questions, because you know the issues very well, and as a resident of Thessaloniki and as a journalist and now of course as a Member of the region. Without this being considered as a suggestion, this question or all of this should be tabled at the same time to other relevant ministries. We cannot ask a question in the Region of Central Macedonia. That's why I'll answer you. However, there are other co-legislative ministries in any case which are involved or have to do with what we call the 'Thermaikos Gulf'. So, in a similar question - as you already said in 2015, two years ago - we had spoken about the issue and I had answered you and especially I, as Minister of the Interior, about the superficial cleansing of the Thermal Gulf, which is at least my direct responsibility. So, then, the issue of solid waste water cleaning, we have successfully dealt with it in the recent incident to which you refer. We found the donors and the necessary funds, and we now have the “ALKIPPI” ship, the well-known boat, to clean the Thermaic from sewage and the garbage surface, as you have already mentioned. But the Thermaikos' problem is not on its surface alone. The vagina is burdened by dozens of man-made and natural factors. I will not repeat what you have said, because that is what is about the factors that are burdening the vagina. However, the recent reappearance of the red tide phenomenon, i.e. the overfooding of phytoplankton, which is a natural phenomenon, is borne by the activities you have already shown. Once again, however, it has highlighted the complete and decades inadequacy of an inefficient environmental management of this large bay. It also highlighted the absence of the institutions involved and sharing the responsibility of the Thermaceutical Gulf. I dare say that if the Thermaic Gulf was under the responsibility of a particular body, which should have been set up many years ago, it would have been a solution. You will also allow me to say that for its superficial cleansing he was found on behalf of the State Secretary of Macedonia Thrace of the Ministry of Interior. As you also know, in the theme 'Thermaikos', Mr Colleague, fifty-eight bodies are involved, while the others say sixty-six. You can see that, you know, we know that. However, it is good to refer to the Chamber and to be recorded by a study of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki - I will present it to you in the Minutes - and the Municipality of Delta. On the critical days when the phytoplankton covered most of the wider Port of Thessaloniki - already burdening, as you described, the life of the Thessalonians with stench, with its unsensory image, but above all by negatively affecting the image and economic activity of the city in the middle of the tourist season - even though the relevant scientific bodies to which we have addressed insisted that it is a natural phenomenon that cannot be solved, at least from our side did what we had to do. You can read hundreds of publications on those days that pointed it out. So by refusing to remain inactive and by representing a government that is intervening and confronting the problems, I have taken initiatives to deal with the phenomenon. So I found financial resources without a burden on the public finances that stopped being given for the superficial purification of the vagina until 2012. This was done without charge of public finances and only by private donors. I have the opportunity in this Chamber to thank them once again for their social sensitivity and for what they have been doing for years. With the money we have been able to have, by increasing the resources we have achieved, the use of specialized equipment and the intensification of our efforts, we have led to a 40-hour reduction in the effects of the phenomenon up to the final elimination in which the climate change has certainly contributed. It came to me, just a moment ago, a message from my office at the Ministry of Thessaloniki, that a document symptomically came today from the Department of Biology at the Department of Biology at the Department of Biology, which made these measurements during the period that we are talking about. It was quite successful to intervene with the boats and with all the activity undertaken by the company concerned, which has undertaken this superficial cleansing. I will also present to you a document informing us what exactly action it has taken so that it can achieve as much results as possible. So it wasn't just the air that saved us. Although phytoplankton is not a solid lymph, but a complex environmental phenomenon that requires specialized equipment and scientific management, we did everything possible. The government, ladies and gentlemen, through the Ministry of Interior, Macedonia - Thrace, has acted effectively. We have already met with co-responsible ministries. We are considering any studies in our hands and from the past which we will obviously update. There are responsible ministers who, with the partners, undertake this activity. I must remind you that the Technical Chamber of Greece, Central Macedonia, has submitted a study since 2006. The Aristotle University, IGME, the NATIONAL. Thermaikos is probably the most studied vagina and the most abandoned one. In my dentistry, I will mention two - three more specific issues which do not relate to my responsibilities apart from the NSAF which is a body supervised by the Ministry of Macedonia Thrace. However, I have an obligation if you ask me to reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S1-commons.u63	I would ask both of you, because we have to hand over the Chamber and already the total time of your prototype is longer than the time the other questions have been answered each time. I do not want in such a smooth process to intervene and displease both of you. Thank you. You have the floor for three minutes, Mr Triantafylides.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr President. The requested Ministry has in its statute the responsibility of coordinating all the bodies and services listed in the spatial definition of "Macedonia-Thracy". In this sense, the question was raised to the Deputy Minister of Macedonia - Thrace. As you told us at the end of your position, Mrs. Collia, Madam Secretary, there has already been some meeting with the presence of other consensual ministries, so you are the most appropriate person. Besides, the other ministerial person would do that thing. But this is your institutional responsibility, the responsibility for coordinating the ministries, institutions and services that are registered in the area of Macedonia and Thrace, northern Greece. The second thing we agree on is that we need to join forces for the Thermaikos. We are late in this direction. The body for protecting and exploiting the Thermaikos, which will co-ordinate, design, coordinate and, above all, implement it, should have been established. We are not judging by what we say or are announcing, but by what we do, he sees, smells, feels, experiences the citizen, whether he is a citizen who wants to take his walk on the seafront, whether he is a citizen who wants to invest in the seafront from the 'Remezzo Palace' to Kalamaria and the zone in front of Palataki and Kodra - which is also an open issue - until 'Kitchen Bar', warehouses and beyond the delta, the part that rains in western Thessaloniki. So you're doing very well. I'll just remind you - and I feel very proud and happy about this - that I had spoken about the thirteen regional conferences, so that we wouldn't have to deal with them. The problems are as a whole and the solutions must be given as a whole. We need to put together forces. The components should be made of joint action and intervention. Already the two of the thirteen regional conferences, to which my humility had been mentioned in May 2015, have been implemented and run to the rest of the eleven. I also noted the need to abandon the Prime Minister's model that visits Thessaloniki every September and gives beads to my fellow citizens, to us Thessalonians, speaking of Thessaloniki, the gate to the Balkans, the gate to southeast Europe. The Prime Minister - and at that time I had proposed a special thematic meeting of the cabinet - did something more advanced. Alexis Tsipras created the Prime Minister's office, which means daily planning, daily planning, day-to-day monitoring of issues and issues, whether they are going forward, where they have arrived, where they are posing, and what we need to do to deal with them. In closing, I want to have my mind the next day, and I think that's what they have - or should have - and the Thessalonians for us who envision a better city worth living and especially for our children for the generations that come. This picture given by the city and the state must be abandoned in all appearances - central government, regional government, local government, municipalities - that they have turned their backs to Thermaikos. That's the first point. Point 2 - and even worse - to regard the Thermaikos as the backyard of their home, where we store nitrates, pesticides, tanning, all the bad texts of the region, urban waste water, industrial waste water, etc., but there must be drastic intervention. Let me have in mind - and with this I close - European data, Naples or Marseilles, but Balkan data, Dubrovnik and Split, where on this sea coast front there is life, there are marinas, there are investments, there are floating restaurants, people find work, they find their future, and we have this thing that looks like a dead lunar landscape where somewhere - a World Sailing Championship is organised. It is a good thing, of course, that "ALKIPPI" has also worked - to say this - and it has been cleaned, or else we would become a resilient in the world. World Sailing Championship in eutrophications phytoplankton and red tide.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S1-commons.u65	Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President. To understand how easy it is to measure time. Mr President, I will not repeat what I said or say on what the powers of the State Secretary of Macedonia and Thrace are, which are some by Presidential decree, and of course it is the act that proves it, and often I think I have intervened, even though I do not have the authority to do so. I will therefore answer some specific projects that have been completed or tend to be completed. Well, about the D.N.A. Waste Treatment Unit, which I have my supervision, I have to say that this project has been completed. The main owner and entity of the financing was ETVA BIPA SA. They're already done. The 10-day successful operation of the reconstructed plant during which it will be checked whether its environmentally sound absorption is achieved and if these objectives are achieved, ETVA will sign the completion certificate of technical reconstruction work, the process of signing a temporary recovery protocol from the EETA will be initiated by the EETA and, after receipt, this unit will be set up in a 12-month trial period so that the manufacturer can demonstrate the good technical functioning of this plant and cover all environmental conditions. One is that. The second is what we said about linking the second branch to the main drain. Due to the complex technical problems they have not yet worked on the necessary projects so that the uncleanness of a small area of western Thessaloniki can also be led to the installation of the Thessaloniki waste water treatment plant via the main drainage pipeline. These limes are only 5% of the total amount of waste water that is driven and processed in the EIF, so they are brought to the Rosepotamos bed. The contested pipeline of Treropotamos is part of an incomplete for several years, until now, a sewage system for the low-peripheral areas of Thessaloniki. The problem will only be solved with the completion of the second branch of the Central Sewage Corporation, which started in 2014. It was then interrupted and finally rebooted and constructed by the Special Public Works Agency for the Construction of Hydraulic Infrastructure. The construction of additional links between the Central Pipeline and the Region of Central Macedonia is also required. That's where the Region of Central Macedonia comes in. There is a complete study of the construction of a twin depressing pipeline, pumping station A4. After its connection to the F500 CAS and the depressing P90 of the meat market and the construction work of a 2F9000 Fluorescent pipe connection with the A4 pump with the CAS. With regard to the losses from K14 to tell you: In the context of the construction of the second branch of the CAR, this project will be built with the existing infrastructure in operation in the area, which has been partially destroyed by the K16 construction limits. They must be immediately restored by the Region of Central Macedonia. IAFRIC SA - which I repeat I have its authority - has repeatedly made written briefings, but also requests to all relevant bodies for the immediate need to resolve the problem. It should be noted that there are already two judicial decisions exempting this company, the IACC, from all responsibility for the forced discharge and non-processed sewage in Trento, since the relevant sewage works have not yet been completed. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. In closing and despite the labyrinth, Mr President, Mr Colleagues, the institutions and despite the fact that this is far beyond the responsibilities of the humble State Secretary of Macedonia Thrace Home, we have taken important steps. We are aiming to help substantially so that a definitive solution can soon be given to the problem and a better and more qualitative environment for the Thessalonians. Of course, the presence and existence of the Prime Minister's office and the regular rise of the Prime Minister in Thessaloniki and Northern Greece is what the Macedonians have been seeking for years. It has shown results and as well as we work together, we will all have the best results for northern Greece, for the country we love, Macedonia and Thrace. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Undersecretary. I should like to thank all my fellow Members for the smooth conduct of the debate. For all the questions which have not been discussed, there has been a letter from the Secretary-General of the Government, Mr Kaloger. I don't have to read it. Also, SYRIZA MP Ioannina Mr. Ioannis Stefon seeks permission from a few days' absence abroad. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S1-commons.u68	The House therefore approved the requested permission. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-31-S1-commons.u69	With the agreement of the House at 14.03 p.m. the sitting is closed for Monday, 31 July 2017 at 15.00 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: legislative work, according to the agenda distributed.
