ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: According to Parliament's approval from 6-4-2017, PG's minutes of Thursday 6 April 2017 were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau of the PG's minutes of Thursday, 6 April 2017, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: ‘Definition of an Implementation Protocol between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Russian Federation on the implementation of the Re-entry Agreement between the Russian Federation and the European Community of 25 May 2006’.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS First we will discuss the question by MP I of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Evangelos Venizelos to the Prime Minister on the "Public Policy Minister's publication on a visit to Venezuela in 2013, the then director of the office of President of SYRIZA and the current Minister of Digital Policy". The current question will be answered by the Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, Mr Nikolaos Pappas. Given that it is the Prime Minister's time - no matter how much Mr Pappas will answer - the reports and the annulled questions, which would normally have been asked before, will be announced after Mr Venizelos and Mr Pappas have completed their positions so that we do not interrupt the flow now. Times, of course, are the times of the normal questions. There will be tolerance from the Bureau and from Mr Venizelos and from Mr Pappas. Here, Mr. Venizelo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. According to an impressive report by journalist Jason Pipinos, who is documented with evidence, testimony and mainly with photographs, the then Director of the Office of the Chief of Officer of Defence, Mr. Nikos Papapas, in August 2013 made a visit to Venezuela and according to the testimony of Mr. Pappas himself, who reiterated yesterday in the Committee on Institutions and Transparency, as well as in various media, the main aim of this visit, which was not publicly announced, was to explore the possibilities for trade relations between the two countries. I do not understand which body was represented and what purpose was served by the Director of the Office of the Chief of Police Representation, namely the representative of a radical party, and what is the point of a party confronting trade relations either in the agri-food sector or much more in other areas linked to large and powerful businesses, such as energy and, more specifically, oil. According to this post, the current Minister for Digital Policy, Mr. Papapas, was accepted by a controversial and controlled businessman, Mr. Mahed Khalil, travelled with his private aircraft on the tropical island of Margarita, where he was hosted in the habitats and hotels of this businessman. We see him in photographs of a close friendly relationship with the lawyer, Mr Artemis, who was seen a while ago going out of the Great Maximos, probably following contacts with the Prime Minister and Minister of State at the time of the current Digital Policy. And it is truly paradoxical how it is possible for this whole set to be organized in order to promote, supposedly, economic and commercial relations beyond the Greek Government. In August 2013, when this visit took place, I was vice-president of the Government and Minister for Foreign Affairs, asked us for no help or information about anything at the time, does not appear to have been informed of the Greek embassy in Karakas. The Greek Government was not asked to promote bilateral transnational economic relations with Venezuela. And, of course, how is it possible, how can such contacts be made in this luxury and bizarre environment with private aircraft, with tropical islands, with luxury hotels and, of course, with hospitality? And for Mr. Artemios we learn from the publications that he specializes as a Cypriot lawyer in offshore companies and you know how good the area of Latin America, because of Panama, is in the matter of know-how for offshore companies. My questions more specifically are: Did these contacts continue after 26 January 2015 when we have SYRIZA - ANEL Government, the Tsipras - Papa? Has government policy been affected on these matters? Have relations been established that have never been announced? What kind of economic and business relations, as Mr Pappas has proudly confessed many times over the last few days? I reserve to hear Mr Pappa's first answer to come back.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u3	Mr Pappa, you have the floor, as well as the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, I will not abuse time. Mr Venizelos, your first position has been ripped off with a bag of elements which are not reflected in your question, which I have to say is a political one. Your first placement also had gossip evidence, like the ones appearing in the report. I have said it again before the National Representation that we are talking about a journey that took place in 2013. In 2013, the speaker was neither a MP nor a Minister. He could not, in other words, print anything and impose more. It is a journey organised by the Venezuelan Embassy, which, of course, in cooperation with their Ministry of Foreign Affairs, also had the responsibility of our hospitality and our internal movements there. I repeat what I have said in public over and over. On this trip there was nothing wrong with it. I would like to inform you that the trade relations of many countries of the European Union are developed, but they are not Greece or the period when you were, of course, a Minister of Foreign Affairs. And it was not because these relations had to be dealt with at the expense of the ideological obsessions, not yours perhaps, but your government partner, who was being blamed for the ideas and arrests of the extreme right. You're asking me if these relationships have continued. An official visit has been made in August - if I am not mistaken - in 2015 of the Secretary-General of International Economic Relations of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Venezuela, where a memorandum of understanding on energy issues was signed. Representatives of the Greek oil companies and Motor Oil and ELPE attended this visit. I am not in a position to know, of course, whether some trade cooperation has emerged from that meeting. I must tell you, however, that the Greek-owned fleet is making too many transfers of Venezuelan oil. I would also like to tell you that a Greek company has built a large network of pipes, infrastructure, water supply and sewerage in the Venezuelan capital. In other words, there are things that are evolving. There is another aspect that I am going to speak about in my dentistry, which concerns some ideological obsessions and a central account of the extreme right, which I hope you will not adopt, namely that the Left in Europe is financed in a dark way by the Republic of Venezuela. It is a record that does not only have Greek printing. It has also been repeated in Spain. I won't abuse time and come back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Venizelo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. I wonder how the Minister has formed the impression that the Greek governments until January 2015, but I imagine the present Greek Government, are organising their international relations, conducting a foreign policy and in particular organising the country's international economic relations on ideological criteria. Who told you, Mr Papapas, that Greece has ideological barriers to its trade and to the promotion of the Greek business presence abroad or of Greek exports? Do we not have relations with countries that have regimes that are internally violating democratic principles or principles of the rule of law? Good or bad, this is the realistic or even cynical - I can say - reality of international relations, especially international economic relations worldwide and Greece is forced within an international economy to meet its own needs and to promote its own national interests, but also the interests of Greek businesses, to have relations with a large number of countries, with all countries. The phenomena must be extremely extreme and there must be sanctions for the United Nations to stop Greece from having economic relations with a country. What reservation do we have with Venezuela as a state? We have an embassy operating in Karakas, there is a Venezuelan embassy in Athens, there are business followers, there are trades, there are transnational relations. So why didn't you tell the government before you went or after you went? Why didn't you put forward proposals to promote relations and help businesses? Because you did everything in hiding! And why is it not that the representative of a party, and even a left-wing party, as you say, does not mean dealing with economic relations, with businesses, with trade and making the broker, at best? Why would which business operator export food or import or take oil from Venezuela at a better price? Who, SYRIZA, whom you represented? And what does it mean to co-exist with business representatives as opposition? You are telling me, Mr. George Tsipras, as Secretary-General for International Economic Relations, in 2015 in Venezuela with businesses. He did very well. Why don't you tell me that Venezuelan Minister for Foreign Affairs came to Athens and her visit was not officially announced? But I ask you more specific questions. To cultivate and continue these relationships, in the days of your government, the notorious entrepreneur, Mr. Mahed Khalil, came to Greece? Did he make contact with government representatives? Did he come using an aircraft that was designated as a government and was licensed to take over and land? How many Venezuelan state aircraft have received a similar landing permit at Greek airports and who have carried the period since January 2015, which have become government, to date? You tell me that there is a surrounding atmosphere and they say about different parties, I know the Podemos debate that they are being funded by Venezuela. I don't have any clues. I'm not invoking it. You said so. You have speeded up your answer on a subject. I will not say that 'whoever has the fly smells'. I shall say, however, that it was not a part of my question. Mr. Artemio, however, is a matter. Because Mr. Artemio specializes in offshore companies. We have seen that the largest offshore office of companies, with the largest archive worldwide, is based in Panama, that is, in the wider area of Latin America. And I wonder how did you get that kind of intimacy there for the first time? And what did his visit to Maximos mean, as has been recorded in the publications that we have in mind and which you know very well? This is not a reconversion of ideological preferences. You may like the Chávez regime, the Maduro regime, have as an example the way the Venezuelan people live or the example of Argentina or any other state or regime. We are interested in basic rules of transparency. Why wasn't this infamous trip announced? And well, you were in the opposition, but you acted politically and institutionally, because the military opposition and its leader are a state player. After 26 January 2015, why not communicate all contacts with Venezuela, especially? This raises questions, creates a suspicion. And you have a chance now to give answers to these issues, which I think you too are aware of. Otherwise, you would not have taken the initiative to answer immediately a timely question addressed to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u7	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u8	Honestly, I do not understand what we are calling for right now. I think Mr. Venizelos has spread the whole trachea. He said he did not take the blame, but he made a total narrative, which implys exactly that. And I must say, Mr Venizelos, because you rushed to speak about Podemos and Spain, that the main populist journalist, who claimed Podemos was paid by Venezuela some time ago, saw the case that had begun to enter Spain's supreme court. And a corresponding Podemos array and style hybrid paid 20,000 euros for corresponding reasons. I would therefore say to you, because some of them here are doing so with too much ease and even cases which have been brought before you for judicial reasons, do not do so either. You're asking me how many and what state planes in Venezuela. I think the State Department can answer that. I don't understand what you're blaming the government for. That he's done exactly what? You have nothing at all, I think, to come to the debate and that is perfectly understandable to the world that is watching us. Overall, however, I would say, Mr Venizelos, because precisely with these things we should not play and because you made a reference saying whether it is being blamed and if Greek foreign policy is launched on ideological grounds, that this is my claim. This claim is made that at the time, precisely because the 'Venezuel' story had an internal political usefulness for your own government, for the government that you served as the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the possibilities for trade relations had been cut. This, I think, is the testimony and the situation, which has been at the time and has led the embassy of this country to address us, to invite us to Venezuela, to explore the possibilities of cooperation and the possibility of strengthening political relations, because since 2013 - how to do so? - There was a suspicion that we would be a government. There's absolutely nothing wrong. There are only political purposes, which I think constitute a cheap and inappropriate diversion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the current question to the Prime Minister has been concluded. I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question report on Monday 10 April 2017. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question under number 688/4-2017 of MP II Piraeus of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Irinis Kasimatis to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, concerning the completion of the performance of the exempted areas of the concession agreement between the Greek State and “PAS SA”, in the municipalities of Piraeus Keratsini - Drapetsonas, Perama, Salamis, as well as in the Municipality of Piraeus. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 693/4-2017 of the New Democracy Parliamentary 2 Athens, Mrs.Akaterini Papakostas - Ironropoulou, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the seizures of securities, real estate and bank accounts. 3. The question asked by MP Argolidis of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Manatis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning the activation of the decision on pilot study of the Argos residential control zone (ZOE). B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by Mr Constantine Hatzidakis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport concerning deficits in Athens' urban transport. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question by MP Drama of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.His Kefalidou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the National Gallery and the costs of delaying the completion of the expansion project. 3. The question asked by MP Samos of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Dimitrios Sevastakis to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the reopening of the "Samian Television" and the framework for the proper functioning of regional media. 4. The Question No 333/12-1-2017 by MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information on the financing of journalists and websites. 5. The Question by Mr Dimitrios Konstantopoulos to the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the support and upgrading of the TEI Messologist. 6. The Question No 504/20-2-2017 by the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the "fulfilment of the nation". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The Question No 602/14-3-2017 by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the licenses of assistant teachers. 8. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the 'publishing of presidential decrees for the recognition of professional rights of TEI graduates'. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Chief of Officerial Representation and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, and the Members of his party have tabled a proposal for a committee of inquiry into the management and expenditure of public health since 1996, in accordance with Articles 68(2) of the Constitution and 144 et seq. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: This proposal will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting, printed and distributed to Members, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure. [[The above proposal is recorded in the Minutes and read as follows:]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] To enter pages 19-27
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u10	I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House. [[They are announced to the House by the Secretary of Parliament Mr Georgios Psychogios, MP Mr Korinthias:]] [[A. PRESENTATION OF REFERENCES]] [[To enter page 28.a.]] B. REQUIREMENTS OF SUPPORT IN BUILDINGS
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall continue with the topical and urgent questions. The first under number 691/4-2017, the first question of the first cycle of the Member of Parliament Fthiotida of the New Democracy, Christos Stakos, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the financing of actions by criminal actions against the Greek State and the allocation of funds for social purposes, will not be discussed due to the absence of Mr Juliarakis abroad. Also, the fifth under number 658/27-3-2017 topical question by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panayotarou to the Minister of Finance, on the performance of the Olympic Games, will not be discussed due to the absence of Mr. Juliarakis abroad. The 20th question under number 447/6-2-2017 of a second-cycle MP in Athens, Mr. Spyridonos - Adonidos Georgiadis, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the meeting of the Prime Minister with representatives of the investment Bank Rothschild will not be discussed because of the obstruction of Mr. Juliarakis, it will not be discussed due to the absence of Mr. Juliarakis abroad. The ninth under number 520/23-2-2017 a topical question by the Member of Parliament for the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Ioannis Koutsoukou to the Minister for Finance, on the silence of Mr Tsakalotou and the government's commitments, will not be discussed due to the absence of Mr Tsakalotou abroad. Elena Zaroulia to the Minister of Finance, concerning the appointment of judge in the administration of the Supreme Council, will not be discussed due to the absence of Mr Tsakalotou abroad. Also, the tenth third under number 439/6-2-2017 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance regarding the transfer of PPC users to companies of alternative electricity providers will not be discussed due to the absence of Mr Tsakalotos abroad. The fourteenth under number 498/20-2-2017, a topical question from Mr.Athens, Mr. Georgios Amyrias, on the 'SIEMENS' case, will not be discussed due to the absence of Mr. Tsakalotou abroad. The fifteenth, under number 620/20-32017, a topical question by the Deputy of Attica of the Independent Greeks Mr. Konstantinos Katsikis to the Minister of the Interior, concerning the compensation of owners of the expropriated areas for the construction of the Western Attica Sanitary Breeding Area, will not be discussed due to irresponsibility. Also, they will not be discussed as a result of an impediment to the relevant ministers and the following questions will be redefined for discussion: The second, with number 690/44-2017, is the first question of the Iraqi MP of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the need for a direct decision on farmers under retirement. Cause, workload. The first, with number 692/444/2017, is the second question by MP Kilkis of the New Democracy, George Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgiodas to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, concerning the immediate payment of the beneficiaries of organic farming - livestock farming of the Kilkis Prefecture, will not be discussed due to a hindrance by Mr Apostle, who is outside Athens. The seventh question, number 654/27-3-2017, of the new Republic MP Evros Evros, Anastasios Prussias, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, concerning the exception of Evros and Samothraki from exceptional aid to milk producers in islands experiencing problems due to migratory flows, will not be discussed as a result of a hindrance by Mr Apostle. Cause, absent from Athens. The eighth Question No 649/27-3-2017 by Independent MP from Athens, Eftathiou Panagoulis, on the provocative use of chemicals in protesters despite the recent explicit government ban and the Minister's commitment, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Interior, Nicholas Toska. Cause of unsuccessful obligations. The tenth under number 461/8-2-2017 a topical question for the second-cycle Parliamentary II Athens of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Helen Zarulias to the Minister of the Interior, on the terrorist attack with kalosnikov against men of MATs, will not be discussed due to a blockade by the Deputy Minister of the Interior Mr. Nicholas Toska. Cause of unsuccessful obligations. The fourth question under number 666/28-3-2017 of the President of Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Vassilios Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the legislation necessary and necessary to remain under the special regime of about four hundred thousand farmers, will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Ekaterini Papanatziou. Cause, not out of Attica. The second question by MP Attica of the Democratic Integration PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday (Eves) Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Health, on the "disease of the Ministry of Health for the Zakynthos Hospital", will not be discussed due to a workload of Deputy Minister Pavlos Polakis. The third question by No 2718/19-1-2017 question by the Independent MEP Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister for Migration Policy, on "the need to take legislative measures to speed up proceedings before the courts in cases where the application for international protection - asylum - has been rejected", will not be discussed due to a workload of Minister Ioannis Mousala. The sixteenth, under number 625/20-3-2017, a topical question for the second cycle of the Parliamentary 2nd Piraeus Union, Mr.Theodoras Megalonou to the Minister of the Interior, concerning the payment of the contractors, to several municipalities in the country, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister of the Interior, Mr. Panagiotis Skourletis. Cause, workload. Also, the seventeenth under number 622/20-3-2017, a topical question for the second cycle of the New Democracy MP, Christos Boukorous to the Minister of Interior, on the payment of the transport of students through special student cards with public transport, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of the Interior, Mr. Panagiotis Skourletis. Cause, workload. The twelfth, with number 367/20-1-2017, a timely question for the second question by Evia MP of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Nikolaos Michou to the Minister of the Interior, on the "inadmissible displacement of thirty-six thousand seventeen hundred Greek children from nursery stations, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of the Interior, Mr. Panagiotis Skourletis. So there are nineteen questions, which are not discussed and seven - in fact six, because they were the first for Prime Minister's time - the ones to be discussed. Score as long as it gets worse! There is, for all the reasons you have heard, a letter from the Secretary-General of the Government confirming the obstacles that have been mentioned. So we are also going to discuss other topical and urgent questions when we read reports too. Where's Mr. Nicholas?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u12	I'm here, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u13	You're confusing me. One you're here, one you go there. They are two questions by Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister for Digital Policy and Telecommunications, Mr Nikolaos Papapas, who will answer both questions. Two Nicolas sword crossing! Let's see what happens. First will the second item be debated under number 694/4-2017, on the subject of 'the PSE must deal with Survivor', with the question of the second question of the Independent Members of the Achaias Parliament, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos? Mr. Nicolopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u14	Mr President, I went to my old lanes because, as you know, you have said from where you stand, I call there on television if you listen to Maximos. So I was afraid he wouldn't listen, and that's why I thought I'd sit in front. But I'll try it a long way away. I do not hide from you that it has seemed to me that Mr Pappas has come to answer this question and has not feared the popularity of this game and the television cannibalism that I have had in the last few days since I have come to speak not only about what is worthwhile - not only my own but also of the Association of Educational Workers of the Third ELMEO of Thessaloniki - has sometimes offended this game, but also about the brutal interests that are behind it. Why do I say: Suffice, while millions go and come to the hands of betting companies, while Mr. Alfouzos, who said that it is a lot of money for a television licence, based on what we read Nikos Mastorakis revealed, will give 17 million for a television game, what he gives all year round? So that's a matter? What can I tell you? Did you see him yesterday, the other priest, the atheist, with Tsipras? He told him I wanted a picture with a hearing Prime Minister. So here, we have a paedophile and an atheist priest. I would therefore like to ask you directly, because this is one of the hot issues of news. I have taken the previous question by Mr Venizelos. I thought you'd been there now, because I've been looking for you for the last few days and listening to the TVs, there's the Poppa's trip. We couldn't find you. Where's the Pope? This is Poppas, there's Poppas. But finally Venizelos came to say about 2000, when?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u15	For 2013.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u16	For 2013. But why did he have the TVs with him? They were playing Venizelo and the subject every day, like you were yesterday!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u17	Stay in Survivor now!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u18	Yes, Mr. President. So you know all this how they get married? It's a game that promotes sport, noble starch, shows how much every person has to try to enjoy a cheese pie or a plate of pasta! At a time when the lives of most Greek citizens, whether television or not, have become Survivor, I think it is absolutely essential, Mr Minister, that public bodies and independent authorities do their part in the public interest. I am sorry to say this, but the term of office of the PSE does not vindicate the expectations of the Greek people, nor my people, and I imagine that you may not even be yours. The issues relating to the broadcasting landscape are many, hot and still unresolved. So, starting with the competition for television licences, which we will talk about in the next question, until the media are still being used as pistols for the political murder of unbelievable and obedient people, such as yourself, me and others, I think the PSE has a glorious field ahead of itself and I hope it will. Of course I'm joking, because I don't see that he's taken one step.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u19	Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u20	I shall conclude, Mr President. I'll tell them, and after a while, the president will accept me there at the ERR offices. But there are no jokes, Mr Minister and Mr President, in my opinion, the aesthetics and messages of this particular game, for which...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u21	Now place yourself. You're not asking a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u22	III ELME stated that it teaches that no disgrace, no little betrayal, no emotional stripping, no nailing on your side is shameful in order to survive.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u23	All right, finish up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u24	After all this, do you ask, Minister: Really, have you heard what is going on around this game? You think you should tell the ERR to deal with, like the previous ones had dealt with in similar cases...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u25	Mr. Nicolopoulou, close or I'll turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u26	...by moving the time or putting even high fines?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u27	Before Mr Papapas, please - I have told you before, although the name mentioner also has the responsibility - it is not elegant to mention names of people who cannot answer. Nothing connects me to the names you mentioned, but I, as President, have to tell you, don't I?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u28	You know, if we don't say names, Mr. President, we don't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u29	Okay. I now tell you what is right and proper within this House. From there on, you take responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u30	You're fine, but I like to call them their names. And let Mr Alfouzos go to sue and the Bureau of Parliament is not moved.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u31	Sit down. I didn't give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u32	To sue pimps to MPs...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u33	Mr. Nicolopoulou, listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u34	...for parliamentary control, and the President of the House will not make...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u35	Mr. Nicolopoulou, sit down right now and don't embarrass me! When I preside, you will not make me the House "hears me the Maximos"! We're done! Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Nicolopoulos, I think that when we talk about an independent authority, we should speak precisely in the way that states that it is aware of the importance and importance of its operation and that neither the Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information should go beyond the institutional limits of the orderly functioning of democracy and interfere with the work of the authority. I will disagree with you on saying that there is inappropriateness, because, from what I read a few days ago, there were the first bells imposed by the PSE under this composition on how the media handled the referendum. I think it's a good start. But you will give me the opportunity to say on this point too, that the text of ELMEA Thessaloniki is not a text with which an intelligent citizen can easily disagree on some of the issues he mentions. I think, really, that the viewer is able to judge and choose whether and what he can and should watch. There is, of course, a question of betting issues. Because real events take place on a previous day and the bet evolves on the day of the show. So there is another principle, which the Committee on Games might have to intervene, because it is clear that there is an issue of asymmetric information. There is a circle of people who de facto know the evolution of things.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u37	Or even secret information.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u38	That's right. Or even secret information. So you realise that because these games can also evolve by transferring money from abroad, to abroad, etc., there is really a very important issue. For the rest, I will return to my second place, Mr Nicolopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after taking part in the "World Democracy Workshop" educational programme organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-two students and students and two educational attendants from the 1st High School of Heidari. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I would like to inform you that you see this House with a few Members, because it is time for parliamentary scrutiny. This means that it is a day on which Members ask the ministers on a number of issues. Thus, the Member who asks and the Minister who answers are present in the Chamber. This isn't the usual picture. Don't get disappointed. Anyway, welcome and have a good Easter. Mr. Nicholas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, look, you may have the opinion you have, and welcome the fines that have fallen. I mean, however, once again by their name, that the three who voted down to fall fines had been designated by parties and groups that were in the common front with pimps, with the canals. I'm telling people to know. The chairman of the National Broadcasting Council and the other five could vote for fines, but the others said, 'no, simple, recommendations'. I am referring to this in order to know what independent authorities we have and to come to an understanding. Here, we all have identities. Let go of the strawberry. So let's move on. In other words, does the law of pimp, the law of the system, not reign in the television field? Does the law of the jungle's strength not now find the corresponding decor with the channel's well-known Survivor, which is a cornerstone of the system? And Mr Alfouzos came to the Committee of Inquiry, Mr President, and said: "We are at the level. We're against reality. We are the ones of the information." What briefing? Eight years ago there was a noise of the game "The moment of truth", presented by the wife of the current Vice-President of the New Democracy Mr.Georgiadis. In fact, it was a Survivor level show in terms of crushing basic human characteristics and values. On June 2, 2009, Minister, the final decision to interrupt the broadcast was taken. The investigation of the National Broadcasting Council concerned the degree of insultation of human dignity with particular emphasis on whether public questions were dubious to the majority of them or whether the inappropriate style recommended a generalized broadcasting line. What was considered, however, by the National Broadcasting Council as important was the fact that players in order to earn a sum of money were dismissing their personal data with a view to gaining and increasing channel viewing. However, apart from aesthetics and morals, the state seems to have a duty to protect society from any kind of deception - as we have just said - and from this gamble. So I mention the assumptions in writing from the TV station of SKAI itself to listen to Greek citizens. Because if the government really listened, why did it not do anything yet? It says, therefore, in the announcement: "SKAI" we were informed..." - they were informed a long time ago, they did not know - "... that the show has become the object of a bet from bet-gathering providers that are based in both Greece and outside Greece." Mr President, I would really like it to be heard that it needs to be investigated whether the large part of the advertising pie gets it, because the 'AGB' - another monopoly - gives all the numbers it wants to give. So that's for control, since he says it's taken from the advertising EUR 350,000 of the show and there are complaints - I don't know if they're true, but I'm telling them to investigate them, because otherwise how will it be heard? - that this amount may not be collected by advertising companies by a Greek company or this station itself, but may be an offshore company abroad that has made this legal transaction, but which has the effect of removing it from the advertising market, being removed from the media, small, large, provincial, central, most of the advertising pie. On the other hand, what does the state get? It takes what Mr Pangalos said, Mr President, if you did not hear it. But he never called the PSE. Mr Pángalos, who said "their" on television, never called him the PSE, nor did that channel make it pay. I am presenting to you - and I am closing with this - the questions that I have put to the PSE, for as many times as they have heard such vulgar things in broadcasts and at the expense of others and yet the PSE does not see and do not listen. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In this respect, Minister, you know, this may not be the game simply with these features, but it may be the beginning, which will come to the surface of events that you would not even believe, the Minister of Information, who has suffered cannibalism.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u41	Minister, you have the floor, although I think that in your protagonist you have covered the matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u42	Mr President, you will allow me to take the opportunity and allow me to 'conscious' two minutes of the year to inform the House and Mr Nicholas that he is asking, because you have mentioned too many events on television or radio, where you believe that the competent authority should have been seized. The competent authority has had an electronic monitoring system for television and radio programmes for about ten to fifteen days. It is a digital system that allows in real time, that is very shortly after the transmission of a program - it runs on the internet - its user downloads, cuts and sees the controversial extracts. This program was granted as a Ministry to the National Broadcasting Council and it cost 54,000 euros, Mr Nicholas. The previous "possible" who had bought a few tens - fifteen years ago and never worked, had cost 1,5 million euros. This is the dramatic reality. What I want to say is that, apart from this tool that the members of the National Broadcasting Council can use from their mobile phones - there is implementation - and in the contract with the company that won the clutch competition that we held at the Ministry, in order to develop this tool and its ability to use it by the National Broadcasting Council, there is also a commitment to the training of members of the National Broadcasting Council and its staff in the use of this software. So at the moment we are talking, the members of the National Broadcasting Council have in their hands an application which allows them any television broadcasts in too little time to have them on their mobile.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u43	Don't do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u44	I'm much more optimistic than you, Mr. Yakumato. I believe that this tool will be exploited and can be exploited, even if a member of the National Broadcasting Council is not in Athens, at his seat. It can be anywhere in the world and a quarter after the publication of a extract or a statement that needs further research, it can have it on its mobile phone, judge and communicate with members and the National Television Council to take appropriate measures. It is a very modern application, which I think can and must be exploited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u45	Interesting! Let us see when a similar system is going to be introduced here too, to be punished for some things that are said and heard and within Parliament not just on television. 'Cause sometimes we get to be like TVs. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, thirty-six students and students and three educational attendances from the 2nd Keratea Municipal School. The House welcomes you. Have a good Easter! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The eighteenth Question No 633/21-3-2017 by Mr Nicholas Nicholas, Member of the European Parliament, Mr Nicholas Nikolaopoulos, Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on 'delaying excitement and fraud', will now be discussed. Mr. Nicolopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u46	Mr President, the role of censoring MPs has been taken over by another authority, the Personal Data Authority.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u47	I didn't think he'd make a point. I said the imposition of penalties when Parliament's authority is being affected. I didn't talk about censorship.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u48	So I'm telling you, if you didn't read it, that last Sunday "Documento" said that the Privacy Authority told some sites to download Nicolopoulou's statements. Look at that! Even the junta didn't happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u49	Get to the question, Mr. Nicolopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u50	Now, however, I understand, Mr President, why the young people of all the parties were appointed retired here. Because they know the technologies. Do you understand? Retired people tell you, according to what Mr. Pappas said, on their cell phone, they'll be interfering with one another. Well done, Mr. Grandpa, to you and to the other parties. Congratulations! But let's get to the point. What's going on? Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come They have sent a letter, Mr President, not only to the parties, but also to us, saying: 'To answer us. How many permits do you think should come out?’ Listen! They're democratic, they're beautiful, they're great! We sent letters, too, became this diner. They said it was accurate. I told you something before. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, as I have said, an open canalarch was found to give 17 million to Turk, who was crying a lot of money for television licences. I say this because it is timely and we need to see it. He really had come here before - and you were the president - Mr. Poppas and I had asked him: "You ask your legal services? Do the PSE members have criminal responsibilities?’ Because the public loses so much money because they don't do anything. No rent puts the licenses on either. And it's beer-beer, get them to milk them. I am sorry, Minister, that I am saying this, but the infamous competition has become soap opera, it has become a bad joke on the lips of all the citizens, who believe that in the newly appointed PSE, there is no intention of legality, a fair settlement of the matter, for which it has been so late. It looks like the bubble's gone off, after they've unlawfully emit, based on what you have said, that is, on what justice has decided. We have arrived April 2017. We have seen no timetable, no intention of holding an invitation to tender despite your declarations of competition this spring and despite the letter that you have, as we know, sent to the PSE by requesting an accelerated procedure. But you, Minister, have speeded up your tabling an amendment so that the 'poor' judiciary does not lose any money and you have satisfied them. So their white strike is over. However, the common conviction is that the Council has failed to respond to its role so far, even though its members are paid richly. So I am not far away from mentioning them in more detail, because I am invoking them with very specific information both in my question and in the letters of 12 December and 13 January which I have already tabled in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u51	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u52	We're on our own, Mr. President. I'm gonna need two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u53	We have further questions and colleagues are waiting.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u54	So I note that the question is very simple. When's the competition going to be? In what terms? On what conditions? Do you know each other? Can you officially place yourselves before the National Representation and the people today? I would remind you that the Council of State has accepted that the operation of television stations without a licence is an illegality and the process must be initiated immediately. So tell us what's going on with the contest or at least tell us what's going on with the PSE. Why is there this radio silence? Is this a mere inertia and how will you deal with it here? Because we have to deal with this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u55	Mr. Nicolopoulos, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u56	I'll be done. The world has now begun to believe, Mr President, that, behind the inertia, political feasibility can even be concealed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u57	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. I want to start from this: At the moment when we are talking on the basis of the last decision of the National Broadcasting Council, the only channel that holds a legal licence is Greek Radio Television, ERT. The contested decision of the Council of State reiterates its well-known case-law that the channels are currently operating without permission. There is therefore a very great need to complete the authorisation by means of a competitive procedure. With regard to the pay amendment, Mr Nicholas, I think we have done well, and we have ensured that there will be no reduction in the standard of living of these people, precisely because they have agreed to participate in the National Broadcasting Council.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u59	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u60	Please, Mr. Nicolopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u61	Mr. Nicolopoulos, you are an old congressman. Don't make me intervene again!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u62	A little vibrant, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u63	Don't do that!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u64	I think there has been a lot of water in the groove and we can first draw some conclusions as well as the Greek people. Because in your previous question, Mr. Nicholas, we were talking about “Survivor”. Who has the rights of “Survivor”? The infamous Turkish canalarch!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u65	The one you'd bring!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u66	The famous Turkish canalarch would have brought the speaker to an agreement with Erdogan to open a channel to Greece! That was the account of some television stations. Of course, it's laughing and crying at the same time, but unfortunately, we're here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u67	Well, it wasn't just that, it was more!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u68	Mr President, do not use your institutional capacity to intervene on the substance. What I wanted to say, however, is that precisely because it has flown too much water into the groove, I think that the National Broadcasting Council has also received the relevant responses to the possibilities of television spectrum and broadcasting by the National Telecommunications and Post Commission and its executives have been placed and other experts have been placed on the possibilities and the number of channels available. In our opinion, the competition had to be held yesterday. That is because at the moment we are talking, there are infrastructures. The Greek state has also developed know-how, it has the people, not my Ministry, but the ones who have made other competitions and they have helped us. Previous competitions have been made by the National Telecommunications Commission and they have also helped the August competition last year. So I think there are infrastructures and I want to believe that there is also the mood for the process to be completed quickly.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u69	Thank you. You've been impeccable in time. Mr. Nicolopoulos, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes. I put you four and a half minutes in your prototype instead of two.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u70	It's not pssy cox. We say, "When will it be, Mr Pappa?" and he says: 'Keep quiet, it's all right!' Okay, we understand. Sanctuary never! Minister, you must put an end to this series and to the monopoly of the arbitrary measurements of the "AGB - NIELSEN" television, not to continue, like all your predecessors, to allow this game to be done, which is done there with advertising money, public or private. You know, therefore, that the current Deputy Minister for Justice, Papa Prosecutoropoulos, had ordered an inquiry into how the measurements were made. Because there to see what's going on with the packages, Mr. Pappa. What GDP? But where is the ILO and all this? Mr President, since 2009 the committee that controls the viewing measurements has said that it does not take measurements, because at the time of the memoranda they have no money. And because they have no money, no one controls. Do you hear that, Mr. Tasoula? No one's in control! And Mr. Poppas is screwing with beasts, but he's making the wheelchair. He doesn't see, he doesn't listen! So, Mr Pappas, look at this: do not think that your citizens, and here your colleagues, are staying unrealistic. For the specific reason I tell you today at 12.30 a.m. we have an appointment with the Prosecutor's Office, and this is the press report on the telemetrics which I will present. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Honestly, can't Maximus listen? She doesn't know what's going on? Won't he take any initiative? In conclusion, I would like to ask you, if you please, at least give me this answer today: will the Christian-Democratic Party report against the members of the PSE allow television stations to broadcast illegally? I asked you here - not from behind coming out and saying some old friends there - officially: "Mr. Pappa, what does the Legal Service say? Do they have criminal responsibilities, or because they are independent, are they also uncontrollable?' So will you answer us? You asked? You told me then that you would ask and tell me. So will you tell me? Let's see. And with 'AGB' will you let all this happen? In conclusion, I am sure that the President will see it, and also Mr Yakoumatos who has asked for it - here too, what is going on, therefore, with this slash. You did not bring the Turk or Alexis Tsipras, as Mr Alafuzos said, but there was the Trojan Horse! And it says that because it will "get in" 10 million - and it is not my own statement - perhaps SKAI will "go on" to 12 million and perhaps that the Turk will enter a partner, buy a large part of SKAI, thus entering the Greek television market as he always wanted. Only he didn't - he says - his friend Alexis, but the Trojan Horse of Survivor. I give it to you for anyone who is in the mood and in the mood to see what is happening, and if Maximus listens, it goes well, otherwise, bad of his head!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u71	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u72	I would just like to speak for a minute, Mr President. I repeat that the National Broadcasting Council has our full support, not only in words, but also in logistics. This also concerns the remuneration of members of the National Broadcasting Council and its support with staff. We had a detailed conversation when we went to deliver them the software, which I had the opportunity to present to you in my previous position. We have also discussed staff and we have also discussed the budget of the National Broadcasting Council, which should at least double, so that they can do their job. In addition to this, we have long delivered the study of auction mechanisms for the granting of television licences, the Economic University, the study of the fixing of a minimum tender price by the company 'DLOITTE', the tendering directives and, of course, we also have the opportunity to have a public staff who are trained in conducting the tender. Therefore, there is also the whole infrastructure to make this competition progress. Mr. Nicolopoulis, no one is above the law. Neither you, nor we, nor the members of the independent authorities.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u73	Why isn't he moving on? They're waiting for the government to fall?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u74	Allow me, please. The members of the independent authorities must apply the existing legislation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u75	If they don't?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u76	I think everyone is responsible for his actions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u77	Good. Mr. Pappa, thank you very much. If we do not see you in Parliament until Wednesday - I mean parliamentary control - good Easter to you too!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u78	Let's go together for the Holy Light!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u79	Parliamentarian Evangelia (Evia) Karakosta is requesting permission from absence abroad from 8 April to 23 April 2017. There is a letter from the latter. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u80	The House therefore approved the requested permission. We shall now proceed to four questions, which will be answered by the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Socrates Famelos, who is present. The third will be discussed under number 675/31-3-2017, a topical question by the New Democracy MP, Christou Boukorou, on the serious problem of the survival of a thousand families in southern Pelion. Here, Mr Buquoore, you have the floor to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u81	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I would like to make you a society of a major problem that has arisen in southern Pelion in the past year. There the inhabitants - particularly in the communities of Kalamaki, Sykos and Neohori - have been working almost exclusively on the extraction of the excellent stone of Pelion, but for a year they have been unable to work, without being responsible for themselves. As provided for in the legislation, they themselves proceeded with the setting up of cooperatives, but the necessary studies - and especially environmental studies - have not been completed, so that hundreds of families are left without income in this area. Some mobilisations have been launched lately to mobilise the relevant bodies to resolve the issue. In view of the fact that this region has no other agricultural income, and even olive-growing, which is complementary to their income, this year has been affected by the weather, we understand that all these families in southern Pelion are at risk of staying for the second year without income. Of course, the municipality is responsible for the preparation of the studies, which I can inform you is also invoking an economic weakness. However, after the stock mining ban, the Mines Inspectorate of Northern Greece is suing and shaking all these producers, who are low-income people, to the idea that they will be asked to pay fines of EUR 10 000 and EUR 15 000 corresponding to their annual income. Today, Minister, after a letter sent to all the Magnesia Members, the lattomes of southern Pelion are asking you to act so that the procedures can be accelerated and that they do not stay for a second year without income, the request they make to you is, firstly, to consider the possibility of extending the old environmental conditions so that they can enter their quarries and, secondly, to look at the issue of suspension and fines, which are excruciating to these people. Agonizingly they're waiting for some of your own initiative. Of course, as we said, the Northern Greece Mines Inspection is responsible for the control. For the preparation of the studies, the Municipality of South Pelion is the municipality of Pelion. I think, however, that you should address this issue with due social sensitivity, so that these people can find some income for their families. I will come back with more information in my dentistry, Minister. However, I would like to ask you to look at this as a matter of urgency, because for a year all these families have remained without any income. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u82	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr Bukkoro, for the opportunity of this debate. I think I have to inform the National Representation that we have received - I mean, as a government, both at the level of Mr Stathakis and at the level of Mrs Papanatsiou - memorials from these producer groups and from our fellow citizens, who are indeed struggling. Here it will be good to see a little bit of what the historical development of the matter is. As far as I can see, the latest licence was given in 2011, with an end time in 2014. It is worth pointing out, Mr President, that we are talking about areas that are also integrated into the nature protection network, NATURA, which is a special protection regime, and it has been known since 2011 that these licences expire in 2014. As far as I know - and you have probably been informed - there was not even the legal form necessary to carry out the activity. So far, that activity has been exploited by associations in the Civil Code, which was obviously not allowed. Following the opinion given by our Ministries in 2015-2016 that unions cannot be parties and cannot be commercially owned, local communities finally proceeded to the establishment of urban production cooperatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u84	For a year.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u85	Do you know what I'm seeing here? That in the end these two years that we have the responsibility of governance have chosen to solve all the serious problems of years. It is indeed tragic to know that licenses expire in 2014, that union activities are carried out and that the then government has not done any action to support producers. However, we have a responsibility to society today. What is the situation today? For the area in Kalamaki, about a hundred acres, on the occasion of your own question, we asked for all the studies that are in place and I see indeed the supplementary file for the NATURA region was made in 2011, as I mentioned earlier. Final file for renewal of environmental conditions and GNI version in Kalamaki was filed on 30-10-2015. This is, if you want, and the main starting point. And in New York, the area is four hundred ninety acres. I think that we also have additional information here because of the NATURA region. I must say that at the time the Kalamaki and Neohori studies were submitted, and the specific ecological assessment, that is, we had a number of issues on which there were obligations and we were significantly delayed in 2011. These are administrative delays and must be resolved. Let me at least point out to the introductory identifier, if you like, the request for a note I have that in FYROM the problem is even greater. There, that is, we do not have the activities and the proposal from the municipality. We have two quartz spaces, one 81,92 acres and the other two hundred eighty-three acres. For the 81,92 acres, an approval study has been submitted to the competent department of decentralised administration, but for the area of the two hundred and eighty-three acres, which is not under the protection regime, namely NATURA, we have not yet received any study. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] We, what we can tell you now is that the projector has submitted requests for environmental renewal and modification of previous GDP, which are evaluated as follows...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u86	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u87	I shall conclude, Mr President. In Kalamaki the dossier was submitted on 31-10-2015 and the completeness check ended. So the file is complete and we're collecting opinions. The completeness was completed on 25 July. In Neochori, the file was submitted on 10-11-2016 and is still in full control. The completeness check has not yet been completed. In my second position, I will give you information on how the procedures are progressing. However, what I can say is that we have a late submission of applications after permits have expired, while there were no legal forms at all and, finally, they are organised in productive cooperatives. From the point of view of the municipality or producers, we only have one of the three areas at the licensing stage. That's the situation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u88	Mr. Bukkoro, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u89	Minister, you will allow me to point out that it offers absolutely nothing in the direction of dealing with problems, overthrowing what has happened in the past. Useful are historical recursions, but with the status that you described, all these people were working and bringing an income to their family, offering at the same time to the local and national economy, because this product is also exportable, as I want to inform you. All that you have said is well known to producers, Minister, and I have pointed it out. Whether the municipality is unable to pay the price of the studies, this causes a delay, because, as you know, the scholars, as you know, do not deliver studies without being paid. These are all issues that exist. But they don't solve the problem. The latomes of southern Pelion are perpetuating a specific request. It is a voice of despair to demand this. They are addressed to you, Minister, by asking you to investigate the possibility of extending, for a few months, the old terms in order to continue working. They have remained with zero income in their family budgets. Secondly, since the complaints have been lodged and the fines will be submitted, in this period, which does not exist in the legal framework, to exhaust your possibilities of interfering with the Medals Inspectorate of Northern Greece, so that all of these - in or out of import - can be cancelled - 'prosecutions' in order that people, apart from redundancy and unemployment, do not have to face the risk of such severe fines. The demands are two and very specific. No one ignores the importance of setting up the cooperatives that have been made, Minister. At last, they're done. No one ignores the need to draw up environmental studies and other studies, but I would stress here - in a strong sense - that producers are not responsible for delaying the studies. The services of the Ministry, the municipality, the Inspection or a thousand other services may be responsible. People are on the verge of desperation, for these two specific requests, namely, for an even short-term extension of the old terms and for a settlement of the issue of suspension and fines. Because people there were being sued and they will also be fined, because they went to see their machinery in the mining sector, because they went to collect extracted material, which had been extracted before the ban. These issues are asking you to deal with, because they are matters of survival for hundreds of families, Minister. I would like to hear an answer to these two specific demands from a local society, which is literally falling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u90	Minister, here you go, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u91	It is a fact that we must conclude this debate. Repeat the request, which has been made. Let us see, however, some of the limits that Greek legislation gives us. We therefore have environmental studies which have also expired in a nature protection area in the NATURA network. No Minister, any of us, is allowed to renew and extend a licence.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u92	Let's help publish the new ones. Press for the extradition of the new ones.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u93	Let me tell you. In fact, an extension to a licence which has expired and an application for renewal has been submitted late. Because the legislator has predicted what we should do in these procedures. There is already the institutional framework. The obligation, therefore, is to submit a request for an amendment, which has finally been tabled, to have a legal body, a body that can implement it and follow the procedures of the late deadline it wants and the meeting of the CSDP. What can we do to help? So, in New York, where the situation is mature, I can commit that, after full-time control has been carried out, the Central Environmental Licence Board, the CSDP, which is required for late citizens, and we can move forward immediately, to help our fellow citizens. That is the limit that the institutional framework gives us. We can ask the services to make suggestions these days, to complete the Great Week, so that the CSDP can hold a meeting. And I'd say if things work well, I'm gonna ask for the full control to be over for the other area.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u94	For Syke.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u95	No, I don't think that's possible. I'm sorry, we've probably been wrong about this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u96	For the Kalamaki.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u97	In Kalamaki, where there is maturity and completeness check, we should go to a meeting right after Easter. And in New York, I think we can ask the services - we do so publicly from here - to end the process of completeness of the opinions and use the forty-five days that the law gives us, so that we can meet about June. Because the services need to be consulted. In the Kalamaki this can be done earlier.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u98	Syke?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u99	In Sykes, I repeat that no request for modification has been made to us, nor has it been delayed for the two hundred and eighty acres. And it makes me a special impression. There is no study or body or application in the region but only one application for a small area in decentralised areas, which is quite different from the subject we are discussing. In fact, the large area in Syki is not even in the NATURA area. And perhaps we should move from where it has more potential, but there has been no request. What you are putting to me today, even for extension, has not come to me as a request. He hasn't come to the Ministry as a request. It is now being submitted to the Delegation, but there is no file, no work, no body. A Minister could not say: I am authorizing something to evolve, which is not even described as a contour of space, nor as an activity, nor who is applying for it. It's impossible. So what I am asking here, publicly from all - and from the members of the law and above all from the local society, which is responsible for local development issues - is to provide and feed the state - we, that is to say - with a proposal. And the municipal council should come the proposal of the regions, bodies, cooperatives, studies, so that we can move forward and support local society. Because if all this is not built up and completed on behalf of the nearest citizen to the municipality, we cannot support local development otherwise. Thank you for your application. This has not even come in writing, which you are tabling. So where a study has been presented, after Easter, the first in Kalamaki will be completed. Let's see until the beginning of summer and Neochori. I'm waiting for proposals for FYI. We are at the disposal, obviously, and yours and local operators...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u100	It's understandable. The two regions, Mr. Bukoro, are on their way. In the other area, take on the initiative of your colleagues, because a request has to be made.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u102	We now go to the sixth under number 661/28-3-2017 a timely question from the Second Circuit of Etolokarnania, the Radical Left Coalition, Maria Triantafylou, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject, opposing local communities of the Municipality of Sacred City Mesology in the construction of bioliquid power plants. Mrs. Triantafel, here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr President. We are talking about the operation of four bioliquid power plants, i.e. biogas plants from processed pancakes, which will operate within the limits of the Municipality of Sacred City of Messology, within a wider area of the National Park of Limnothalas Messology, in a neighbouring area protected by the Ramsar Treaty and within a high agricultural productivity area. Historic is: In August 2016, environmental conditions were adopted - which, not least, were amended three times, with the first request in 2014 - by the Decentralised Administration of Western Greece. In October 2016, the Building Department of the Municipality of the Messology City of Sacred City approved the building permits, without being perceived either by local society of course, but also by representatives of the municipal council, as was heard on the recent municipal council at the end of March. In any case, all this has been done. I think it's important what we're asking. First of all, we must say that it is important to change the kind of project. We should take this into account. In other words, the projects were originally included in Group 10: 'Renewable Energy Sources', A2 subcategory, but they changed after successive modifications - three, as I said earlier - their serial number, their type, namely, and thus ended up in power generation groups from biofuels and biofuels. It is also important to say that in the initial studies submitted to the management body, in the description of the alternatives - and it is important, to look at legislation - firstly, they have not been mentioned much more, they have not even been dealt with alternative positions, secondly, it was expressly said that these positions were chosen because they were close to the production of the raw material - we will also say in the densities that this raw material, of course, is missing, since pancakes or whatever else, will come from abroad - and thirdly, the zero solution was said that the non-implementation of the project results in the failure of an raw material, which is now difficult to use for other purposes. So, as I said, we reach the final approvals from the decentralised administration. We must say that nothing is actually known to local society. Both questions are raised in the timely question, namely whether this development of bioliquid power plants is in line with the environmental and productive model of the region - we will say more in secondary terms - and whether you judge the extent and the way in which local communities and citizens are informed and involved. Finally, this way of producing electricity contributes to the rehabilitation of fossil and imported fuels? So, does this development of electricity production contribute to energy decommissioning? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u104	Thank you. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u105	Mrs Triantafel, thank you very much for the opportunity to open up this very important debate, which we do not often have the opportunity to do here in Parliament. You will allow me in the first part to say a few more general things about the bioliquids and the exploitation of the RES, which is a very important issue, and perhaps for this particular part of your area we should look a little more closely at the second part, because it would be better not to get any misunderstandings on the level of energy policy and environmental security. Here, as an inaugural statement, I must say that the use of alternative fuels, biomass, bioliquids, biogas and, more generally, the use of renewable energy sources is an energy strategic priority for our country. This suggests, if you wish toward environmental policy, because they are participating, with a very significant proportion, in preventing the phenomenon of climate change, in reducing greenhouse gas emissions, but at the same time, they enable us to create local power plants, which are complementary. We are completing our electricity generation network, we are giving a decentralised dimension, in fact, with alternative economic and business patterns, but also social cooperatives in electricity production. They complement, that is, the potential. They help us to get rid of fossil fuels and, at the same time, fuel and give jobs to the Greek territory. Indeed, in your case, in the case of bioliquids, biomass and biogas, because these plants are operating in addition to agricultural crops, they enable farmers to have additional incomes, but in any case, to have units that receive their waste so that it does not burn in the fields, not end up in the channels and open pipelines, not to pollute the environment and not to cause secondary problems. We are therefore very clearly in favour of using and producing energy from bioliquids, biomass plants and biogas plants, because they also work towards solving other environmental problems. On our territory, we don't have many such units. We have a few. A first record, in my hands, reaches sixteen. I must say to you that there are working groups at the Ministry working on a new policy on these issues, more skilled, perhaps to speed up such investments, both for bioliquids and for biomass and biogas. One thing, however, which I would like to quote, is that we see these units linked to local product and local development. They are units which, in other words, need to recognise what we have in the region, to make use of the resources of this activity. For example, in an area which has no forests there can be no forest-growing investment units. They must be connected to the local product, because they also constitute waste disposal prevention, if you like. In your case, we must admit that we have four units, which seem to be common ownership and common starting point. Some of them are located in neighbouring parcels. Basically, they also hide a partition of the unit. All are licensed to the limit of this licence method, so that they do not come as larger to the Ministry. They are all four in a protected area, as are the previous area we were discussing. So it has special characteristics here, and now it also has a compulsory connection with the local product. In other words, we cannot in a nature protection area bring together a unit that could be done anywhere else in Greece and not be linked to the local product. Because we are also in the Messology lagoon, a region of great value and environmental and economic and local value. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] On the other hand, I have to confirm introductory terms - and I will end here to give you the floor - that, in fact, on a curious route, these units were four times modified, in relation to their initial licence - which I told you had particular features, since they were neighbouring plots - on the limit of capacity which could come to the Ministry as a single unit a little more than capacity. I'll listen to your dentistry, and I'll tell you my own conclusions at the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u106	Mrs Triantafel, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, I think the Minister has given several times, but I will say a few things too. This conversation is very interesting. It is of fundamental interest to both energy decommissioning and the production process itself. I say this, Minister, because, in my view, the concepts of ecology and culture, these areas, for many years, have been a good starting point for 'business', you will allow me to speak. But let's go to the specific units and to that particular spot. First of all, the first thing is that we are talking about information without information. These four units have been authorized, without any opinion, by any collective body of local government, first or second grades. Nobody knew anything. As I said in my prototype, in 2014 they went to the Region's Committee on the Environment, the debate was postponed and it never happened again. So nothing happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u108	Which region, of the hereditary or decentralised?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u109	Decentralized, Mr. President. There is an authorisation by the managing body for the environmental impact study for an agricultural residue treatment plant for biogas production and a biofuel production plant of 0.7 kg of biowave. But there has been a change of work at the second point we are now on, in these three amendments, which mean a change in the content of the project, without another study - I mean environmental impact - after the three amendments. The management body the first time it gave a favourable opinion requested two conditions. He asked for a polluter dispersal study, which they do not give for each individual unit. She also asked for an ornithological study, whose fate is ignored. In other words, on the recent municipal council, where he was the management body, he said we've never seen such a study, we don't know if there's any etc. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You will allow me, with a tolerance, to complete. Thank you very much, Mr President. In addition, the management body in a recent communication - and we must listen to this - formally expresses its reservations about the compatibility of these units, as amended, with regard to the sensitivity of the protected objects of the national park. This is the most recent statement by the management body. I have to tell you that immediately after the municipal council, the management body has met and will redecide. So there is at least one, at least, lame procedure. We must say here that the reason for the establishment of these units is missing there. So from the moment that we have no biogas, that is, we will not burn the residues of farmers, etc., I do not understand why they should be there - and it is something that has been said by all the representatives on the municipal council, but also by all the representatives of local communities - since the raw material will come from abroad. Watch out. We are talking about lorries which will carry six thousand tonnes annually. Let's keep this, 'cause we'll talk. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] I also said that no alternative position is described. That is, if we talk about what you said before, about bioliquids, if you want to connect them to production - I understand - then we are really talking about the RES. But when the container comes and clears the bioliquids somewhere, I don't understand what the connection to the local product is and what it can have with any production process. And of course, there is also an environmental burden from the change in the project. Here I have to tell you: Finding and reading things, we have to say that pancake oils are RES? Because, according to the European Union directive, they are not a renewable source of energy. They are a source of energy, after being recycled by appropriate processes. It is not, however, within renewable energy sources. Of course, a very important point to be said is the land of high productivity. That area is one of the two fertile kamps in Aitolokarnania, the plain of Eunochori and has the highest area yield in Greece. And the products produced there, if these production units are made, what I understand is that they are over. There are extensive crops, there are edible olives, there are hydroponic crops, etc. As long as there are pollutants, will there not be any impact on these crops or on the animals there?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u110	Please close, Mrs. Triantafel.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u111	I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you very much for your tolerance. In conclusion, I would also like to ask which areas and in which areas of high productivity have such RES been authorised and implemented? Of course, when we talk about jobs - since you mentioned it, because we are talking about thirty-five jobs, if I remember correctly - it is of great interest to see from the Ministry of Rural Development how many working hours and how many workers will be lost from the relevant crops. Of course, if we want to talk about productive reconstruction, which is the most important invoked, and indeed it is a big and complex issue and an essential issue of transition to the way out, we have to say how this is going to be done. I'm sorry about the long delay.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u112	It's very interesting, so I'm leaving you. But you have to shut down.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u113	Thank you very much for tolerance. Debt has not only run out of accounting. Debt reaped through political choices. So this debate is very important. And if we put self-sufficiency, adequacy, self-reliance in the agricultural sector, in the livestock sector, in general, in production, then I think we should move on to that. Everywhere there are new potentials and considerable human resources.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u114	Madam Colleague, I beg your pardon, but we can't go any further. You have to hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u115	Just one issue, the last one really. The Ministry must help, because parliamentary control, in my view, cannot be just a processor. I ask the Minister to take the trouble, to check everything. I understand that there is legislation and there is room for it. However, we must actually give another type of active involvement to the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u116	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u117	To conclude, Mrs Triantafylle, and I too have to say that we have in fact checked the four permits, which were issued, initially for gasification plants, gasification, namely, and production of electricity from there. They are then modified by gasification and four, which are in the same area - they are very close to the parcels - and they are made for bioliquids. Then there comes a second amendment and the agricultural residue unit is removed, where one key issue arises here: We - not us, because it was a different level of authorisation, it was decentralised self-government - as a whole, we authorised certain units for the use of agricultural residues, but after two amendments, the agricultural residues were abolished. So they don't respond to the need for the local area. And in the end, they come and are remodeled. In fact, all the amendments are the same date in all four units. What exactly happened to see this in the institutional context, Mr President? It changes the substance of the unit without anyone being informed about it. In other words, the procedure for consulting and consulting bodies - and I say it not only for the citizen, I say it for the operators - is not an opportunity for anyone to do so. The result is that we have collected, Mr President, and we have from the Port Authority and from the Council of the Municipal Community and the Local Council of Evangelical Objections Retrospectively. Because, he says, "we were aware that another amendment was to be made, nothing to do with agricultural production and without public consultation and transparency". I do not take a stand on this because it is not the Minister's role to take a stand on every technology. However, the political process of consultation and transparency concerns us. And I think there is an issue of avoiding disclosure. In the context of competences, however, the next route would be to bring an action before the Minister on the issue of licensing, despite the fact that it was given by another body. And we will check whether it is within or outside the timetable and we will intervene with an opinion on the decentralised region to say that it should be reviewed, possibly with another amendment article, which will enable consultation to take place. Let us see what the institutional framework provides for. More generally, however, it is important to clarify that we are in favour of the use of bioliquids and renewable energy sources for energy production and use when they are linked to local products. In particular in protected areas, only local products should be supplied. We will not go to a protected area, something that can be done anywhere else and does not refer to the local raw material. There's no need for him to go there. In a protection area it must be of local interest. In high productivity land, too, units can be made of biomass, bioliquids, but they must be based on a local plan, have a radius, a range of raw materials, a contract, a conversation with the producers, with the cooperatives, taking the reeds, taking the remains, the bark. That is what we must use to prevent them from being a source of pollution. I will not go along with the consequences in that the impact on our food, life cycle, animal life, when units are working properly, is not expected by these technologies. However, this does not alter the initial view that in the land of high productivity and in the protection areas it must be linked to local production and it must obviously be done through transparent procedures and public consultation. Therefore, because I think - and I must admit it - that there has been a methodical change in the decisions on the adoption of environmental conditions for changing raw materials by means of public consultation, I think that the procedure should go to the process of re-examination of environmental authorisation by a public procedure, without taking a position on the technology, which must be examined, as the law provides. I think that is the legal security environment that we are obliged to have in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, too. Next is the nineteenth under number 617/20-3-2017, a topical question by the MP Magnesia of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Konstantinos Stelios to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the subject: “Not the burning of waste at HERAKLIS Volos”. Mr. Steeriou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, on 3 January 2017, we had tabled a question to your Ministry about the required modification of the Environmental Effects Study - ICM - requested by the "AGET-HRAKLIS" of the "LAFARGE" Group to burn carcinogens, the known RDFs. In our question we pointed out the risks to public health from the burning of RDF and SRF and asked for the incineration of waste fuels to be rejected. Instead of considering our question, which was scientifically substantiated and answering, not only did you not answer, but on 24 February 2017 posted 99999/24-2-2017 GDPO, which is the fourth from 2014 and completes the environmental and health damage to waste incineration in the cement industry of “AGET”. Thus, the possibility of burning 200,000 tonnes per year of RDF by upgrading port facilities imported from abroad is being activated, and additional impacts are being created on the handling of these loads. With this, therefore, the government's conscious choice is generalised on the use of carcinogenic waste, containing a high proportion of plastic and heavy metals, and causing particularly dangerous gaseous pollutants emitted by their combustion - dioxins, volatile mercury and other toxic substances - as well as hazardous micro particles. They are pollutants that can cause carcinogenicity and other serious harm to the human body. The above developments in combination with the fact that today the LAG burns over a hundred and fifty thousand pet coke confirm that we are literally talking about an environmental bomb for Volos and the wider area. In particular, it is no longer a question of pet coke, while it is a highly dangerous material, it is a toxic product of refining oil. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. On the basis of the 2013 ICM and the modifications made to the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, Volos, in our assessment and assessment of the entire population in the area that are in racing mobilisations, is transformed into a dangerous gas chamber, such as that which does not exist elsewhere in the European Union. At the same time - and with the backs of the municipal authority - the installation as a potential major waste incineration plant of one million seven hundred and thirty-three thousand tonnes per year is being completed. Of these, one million and fifteen thousand are waste fuels. Environmental conditions are set out which ignore documented suggestions on the risk of emissions of dioxins, furans and other gaseous pollutants in the combustion of waste fuels in industries. In the face of the argument of the monopoly group about the achievement of economies of scale and the improvement of competitiveness, you leave to its fate the town complex of Volos and the wider area that is already bombarded by twenty million cubic metres daily hazardous cement waste. Minister, we are calling for the cancellation of the terms of this GSP and of the former ones who are in the group with the possibility of burning waste and making Volos a huge area of an area where we will actually have serious health consequences for our people.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u120	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u121	Mr Stigou, it may not have been made by choice of the Bureau of Parliament, but the two issues we are discussing are relevant, namely the use of biomass, bioliquids and biogas and the use of alternative fuels by the cement industry. You will allow me to raise the first question in general terms as to how these materials should be used and what they are to be used, and in the second I can also go a little more specifically into the Volos area. I would therefore like to say first of all that I understand that there is quite rightly a distrust. This distrust exists in the local society as well as in the local society, and I have received this from letters and correspondence from the region, but also from the optimisation that I receive, because all necessary provisions and procedures for monitoring may not have been implemented so far, but I can confirm that, after communication and checks that we have done in the area, we know that in the system of on-line recording of pollution data in this plant, access to control services had been suspended since 2011. In other words, when you see that there is a system that actually records emissions in real time, let us say this, of air pollutants from an industry and is not monitored and there is no need to control the services, and there is no need for the participation of local bodies many times in this control, it starts and creates a climate of distrust, an opposition and perhaps even underestimate environmental parameters, because I cannot know in every area, in every establishment, what is going on. I would like to say, therefore, that we must have a strict control system in each region in each activity. The services, decentralized, regional authorities, must comply fully with the control rules. There must be social control, i.e. the municipality or other social bodies and the state must have access to the results of the control, because these systems are often on-line. On the business side, too, there should be such a cooperation policy to give information to local society and not to create major conflicts and, of course, to respect environmental rules. In the case of co-incineration, I must tell you that the use of alternative fuels by the cement industry is an obligation for the Greek cement industry. If the Greek cement industry does not change the highly polluting and, in particular, if you want, contrary to the greenhouse gas effect it uses, then the European Union will impose very clear fines and subject these industries to rules that might deprive them of viability. The Greek cement industry is obliged to change its fuels. And in the Volos area in particular, but also in other areas, you know - I do not know if the President, in health, knows that - is highly polluting, it contributes to phenomena such as suspended particles and, if you like, it will have strict burdens on European Union rules on climate change and it will do well to bear. It is essential and crucial for the Greek cement industry to leave the pet coke and go to alternative fuel. Alternative fuels include secondary fuels produced from waste treatment and well do and include them. Because, in 2014, there is strict legislation on these fuels, so that they do not contain chlorine and pollutants and the proper functioning of the cement industries, i.e. the temperature conditions, which exist in the cement furnace, ensure that there is no toxic pollutant for the environment, if we have good fuels and good furnaces. It would be a good thing if the Greek delegation had a scientific basis, because only so can we inform the citizens and then have the opportunity to mention ecological and scientific organisations, which are in favour of what I have just mentioned. The question, therefore, is that our country should have safe control mechanisms, that it has good raw materials, because of our own waste we will produce these secondary fuels and the cement industries and any industry, that they have proper facilities, with access to local society in the results, to make sure that we improve the situation of the possible ugly environmental footprint that the pet coke has today, whether in Volos or elsewhere. There's been an official record of all this. Let me close by, to get the floor, to say that the authorisation for the use of these fuels in the Volos region was given in 2014. You've been a little confused by dates. You are wrongly confused with our last decision. There are two hundred thousand tons registered as soon as you mentioned, in GDP 2014, the Environmental Terms Approval, which I would be happy to give you. I shall make it clear, however, then.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u122	Come on, Mr. Steerio.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u123	Minister for Government SYRIZA - ANEL, you have made two permits. As regards the original 2014, I would like to point out to you: that the pollutants emitted from the incineration of the garbage according to a study by the National Technical University of Athens entitled "Definition of dioxins when burning an alternative RDF fuel in the cement industry facilities of Mr. Christoli, Captain, who is currently the secretary of the waste management coordination, Stavrakaki, Lygerou and Markatou point out:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u124	What's the date?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u125	In 2011.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u126	In 2014, the Rules of Procedure changed, I told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u127	Why, what changed from 2011 to 2016? What's changed?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u128	Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u129	They note: From the combustion of RDF in cement furnaces, various pollutants are released into the atmosphere, such as suspended particles, volatile trace elements, mercury and thallium, and most of them released into the atmosphere in a gas phase. Of the volatile compounds, which are emitted during the combustion of alternative fuels, the most important problem is dioxins, which are one of the most dangerous compounds and for which - beware of this - no lower limits have been established, below which it is ensured that there are no negative effects on human health. This is in response to what you said, namely, that the full combustion is achieved and without any particles being emitted into the atmosphere that are burdened with health. Minister, I would like to say a few political thoughts here, so that I do not now go into a debate of scientific opinion, because we have submitted these to you and you know them yourself. Let me tell you that you had a meeting with the cement industry of "GET" a few days ago and with which you committed yourself to unreservedly implementing the proposal of "GET" and with which the cement industry of "GET" accepts the conditions you have set yourself. So what? That the cement industry must become more competitive, it must reduce the cost of production to improve its productivity. In other words, within a single phrase, you have revealed - they are your words - the pro-monopoly policy against the environment and the health of citizens. We stress this very well. Even in the anti-grassian plan for national management, Minister, it says: as far as the energy use of fuel is concerned, Greece's cement industries can absorb up to four hundred and eighty thousand tonnes a year, after investments. All industries. How can it be a good waste management policy and to license a single cement industry to burn one million and fifteen thousand tonnes a year? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I shall conclude. We are saying this clearly. Capitalist gain from the one hand and protection of the environment and health of the people, is incompatible. As good as you or your government, when you have "image" the capitalist economy that is its goal of profit, they will also be consistent with them, that is to say, the business groups. I should like to stress here that the 'LAFARGE-AGET' was the 'bug' of collective redundancies. So over time, all governments are in line with the profitability of business groups. This option, therefore, in the context of 'green' growth, gives the capital and especially the conditions of a capitalist crisis for profitable investments. That is what you are doing and in that direction you are moving forward. We say that the development of technology...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u130	And hang up with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u131	I shall conclude, Mr President. The development of technology and science, therefore, can really help improve industrial facilities, even in the treatment of pollutants, garbage and waste, but always in the light of what is good for our people. We categorically say that this cannot be done in the capitalist economy, where the profit is directed. The worker cannot be trusted in European practice and the prices made by the European Union and the government, precisely because they are governments, which serve this policy, the supposedly strict legal framework and orderly independent measurements and controls by the state services, because 'Yiannis is buying, Yiannis drinks'. The use of technology and science by their further development requires the abolition of monopolies, the socialisation of the economy, central planning, labour power. We tell you clearly that in Volos we will fight and call on the people of Volos and his unions to fight to reject the situation that goes on to create. One last thing: According to data from Volos Hospital, Volos is one of the areas where the highest cases of cancer are observed. In 2015, we had a 30% increase in cancers in our region. We're not targeting the business, but that's a matter too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u132	Mr. Steeriou, please. Not a lecture now. If we check, it's an audit.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u134	Here you go, Minister. Speak on the subject, not by a scientific answer. After all, you were clear in your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u135	I therefore need to state in an introduction that our own government is in favour of work and of the citizens. We therefore have to have facilities that work safely, maintain work and the local product, so we move our country a little further into the pretext. It is a fact that in Volos you may have quite a burden of atmosphere and perhaps some health issues, so you must take initiatives to stop the use of pet coke, which is why you are obliged to open a debate that is scientifically and healthly safe for alternative fuels and not to engage in superstition, because I have scientific material based on Europe level for why we have to leave the pet coke. I do not know what the situation is and the connection between the fuel and the fuel from the 'GATT', but I know that it is clearly more improved by hundreds of times if it changes to alternative fuel and if the company is working properly. Because we are on the side of work and health we take these measures, because thanks to our government it was found that since 2011 the online control mechanism has not been monitored and thanks to our choice, KEPE finally went, a control step in March, ten days ago at "AGET - HERAKLIS" and we checked all the files and reintroduced the online system and gave access to the municipality, which until then had no information. We have done this because we believe that with transparency there will be access to and balance in relations between local society and entrepreneurship in order to maintain work and obviously not with any other activity. So let me tell you this: There is indeed a serious issue in Greece because it is not yet produced RDF with the specifications that were installed in 2014 and in 2011 well done the study and said there are concerns. He, Mr. Captain you mentioned, has also signed his signature in the National Plan for Safe RDF by a secure procedure will go to a safe facility. It is our job and everyone's job to ensure that this process is safe and, if you like, not to have any evidence that underestimates scientific knowledge. Of course we have called for "GATT". Of course your question was useful too. What did we do at this meeting? Not only should the best available practices be implemented in the European Union, but we have discussed it, Mr President - and this can also be announced in the Volos society - for pollutants which, although they are allowed to be on some points in the European context, we have said that the authorisation of 'GATT' should be changed to the Volos of sulphur dioxide from 200 milligrams per cubic year to 25%, in other words total organic carbon not due to the fuel but to the raw material as well as to the Volos of 40 milligrams and thus to go below the specifications of the European Union for these plants. Of course, we have committed that there will also be an independent control mechanism for RDF produced by OTA installations. We also call this to the municipalities which will now produce such material from secondary waste and to the cement industries. Because, indeed, the national planning that starts now and the treatment plants that will be built large quantities of Greek secondary waste with the safety of controlled waste should safely go for use in the cement industry so as not to have the carbon tax that the European Union will impose on them. In order to do so, all the bodies, the state, the municipalities they will produce, the cement industry that they will consume, the local communities and the workers must participate in an independent control system that we will also install with your own participation. We will now have an independent mechanism that ensures that things are done properly. In Volos it was recently authorized, with our own intervention, only RDF received via a port. As of 2014, alternative fuels were licensed. Until these facilities are built, comparative checks will be carried out, Mr President, in the burners of alternative and conventional fuels, to measure the flow of pilots, without massive implementation and the commitment of all the participants to reduce the level of pollutants in Volos, will not be carried out in full. In fact, the environmental conditions to be approved were to be set up, and then the authorisation was granted, since we are sending mixed steps with participation and environmental auditors, and we and the local society are sure that the emissions of pollutants are being reduced. This is the Treaty that is necessary to move forward and we are committed to it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u136	Won't it burn until you do it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u137	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, thirty-two students and students and three educational attendants from the New Mylotopou Pellas High School. The House welcomes you. We hope you're having a good Easter time. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We continue with today's last question with number 3877/3-2017 by MP Athens, New Democracy, Gerasios Giakoumatos, Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the forest maps of Attica. It could not be done more quickly, since the committee is now meeting to correct the forest maps and on Monday we have it in plenary. Here, Mr. Yakumate, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u138	Mr President, you will allow me to give you a parable. I am tabling the Minutes of this House, Mr President, the money I have never received, I have never been informed and credited badly, very poorly, to my account.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u139	You have two minutes on this matter. I don't give you the time to ask.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u140	Put him in time, I don't mind. I'm interested in the point. I never got that money. They've been returned to the FBI, and I have to ask for an apology from the low pensioners. We didn't aim, nor did we aim. It is wrong that the government has exposed all the Members of this House with a handful of care. Mr President, there is no Member who took this money. That money's burning. They're not ours. However, I complain to the President of Parliament, Mr Voutsi. Carry them over to him. If it hadn't been for Balaura, no Member would have known. "Well, can't you see your account?" Oh, no! Because everything that comes into the account, Mr President, you know that, it is an informative note: wages, committees and pensions. It is only for the Members not notified of this, as if this were the case in order to offend this Parliament, so that the Members of Parliament would collapse into public opinion. In any case, I believe that this money was not taken by a Member of Parliament. To stop some well-meaning journalists, because the social sensitivity of parliamentarians is not enough in millimetres. Because social sensitivity and what you do for the poor is not made public. Finally, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u141	Don't attack the reporters now. They do their job as they think they do.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u142	No, no. Nobody got the money.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u143	We don't have to agree with them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u144	I never got that money. They write: "Yakumatos took the money." How did I get it, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u145	It's closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u146	Yeah, but don't be a defender. I didn't get the money! I never got it!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u147	Mr. Yakumato, I am a defender of those who cannot answer in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u148	Let's go to the point, Mr. President. If they had informed the House of Parliament's financial services and notified the Members that this mess would not be done. It's your fault with the financial services of the House. They should have notified the MPs. You let them smash. Don't worry about it, then!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u149	As you know, after so many years you had to know, Mr Yakumato. I have to defend...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u150	Where, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u151	Mr. Yakumato, I heard you...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u152	How would I know? No, I'm stopping.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u153	As an old congressman.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u154	How would I know?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u155	I'm telling you one more thing. You won't let me talk to you to listen. The services of the Parliament are under the jurisdiction of the Secretary-General. So you have a bad complaint from Mr. Voutsi. That's what I wanted to say, but you don't want to hear.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u156	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u157	It's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u158	We should have been briefed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u159	In your opinion. It's registered. I don't agree with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u160	You'd agree. Mr. Secretary, to your god, the main square of St. Pendeli's Trinity, where is the mayor's store, the Police Department, where all the stores are, is a forest. Is it possible today to tell me that the city center is resurrected? It's terrible. Of course, the forest maps made by the law, the background of the '37s and '45s, have settlements in Penteli that have been licensed and are normally built since the 17th century. I was young and old. These forest maps that absolutely have to be done and have not been done so far, are like the bridge of Arta. I'll say the Cironi law was good law, but incomplete. It is not only incomplete, Mr President, but they have also been to the Council of State at the First Department. This, fortunately, was reinsulted by Mayor Pentelis. Now, then, a little kitten will start. I believe, Minister, that you must intervene immediately, because if the forestists are the ones who regulate everything, I think that nothing will ever happen. So you must intervene in legislation, correct the law that is truly incomplete and does not give the opportunity to go ahead. That's for first-time information, and I'll answer it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u161	Minister, since you will respond and you will reply, and I would like to give you an example - it has nothing to do with what I will tell you about the forest maps - which, after we have finished on Tuesday with the bill, you will see. Workers of the Municipality of Athens were arrested when I was the mayor, because they went to reconstruct existing playgrounds in the Pangrati. Not to extend it, but to get ISO according to standards from Europe. And because, he says, we didn't get permission from the master, he sent the police and took them a self-sacrifice. We've arrived in excess. I say this in addition to what Mr Giakoumatos said. In other words, you need to see where they start, where they go and where the masters' responsibilities end up. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u162	First of all, Mr President, I should like to say that clearly with two such experienced parliamentarians, I think we can win this debate and get experiences which are useful to the state and the ministry. Clearly, everything you say is of great interest. I would also like to add to the previous debate that Mr Balauras was not revealed. He sent a letter to the Association that he would give the money from that payment. He was chosen and made public. From the letter he made. But we should go to the forest maps. I would like to agree, Mr Yakumato, that setting forest maps is a key priority for any favoured society. We should have done it. You both know that. You've had years either in government or in parliament. We are trying to put a class as a country, another forty years, someone has decided at the last minute that he cannot afford political costs, administrative costs, so that we can end this story. But you know that there are too many laws that say that forest maps need to be made. And you know that there is a decision of the Council of State that says that if they don't become forest maps, the land register itself is called into question. You know that the country must have a real estate register, otherwise it has no development, it must have a real estate register, or it will have huge fines from the European Union. So it's a one-way road for all of us. I therefore think that we should call on the whole political system to make a statement: Forest maps are an essential element of urban modernisation - say what you want - of our society and must be completed and ratified. We need to find all the tools available to solve problems, to exhaust work, to offer, to scientific knowledge, to public officials, to public administration, to the House in this direction - which is why we also have the new draft law that has been launched today in Parliament's committees - but forest maps will be made and ratified. Proposals for suspension and non-implementation of the project, I think they are contrary to our basic assumptions that we have made...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u163	I don't think there was such an objection...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u164	You didn't say that. Not from you. I've heard institutions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u165	It could be individual. The issue is good forest maps.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u166	I've heard institutions, Mr. President. I'm saying this because I want to be politically clear to you too. It is a fact that forest maps show up too many problems. The forest maps themselves are not the problem. The problem is all the forest maps show. I was amazed - and I want to say this - that in your document you say that forest maps are not in full correspondence with reality or are fully in line with reality. Let me change it a little, Mr Yakumate: the reality of our country is in complete misfortune with legality. And that proves to be true.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u167	Same thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u168	We must therefore put one order in order, have a system and solve it. As far as the Penteli area is concerned, first of all. Allow me - although you do not write it in your question to be prepared - to tell you, from the control I have done, that the Penteli region is not currently posted. In fact, a resident club came along and found us and asked us to intervene in the town-planning, which is another priest gospel, so to speak. So there is no question today. In fact, I think there is also a case-law on in-projects and the relationship between forests, forest protection and protection legislation and in-project operation, where the state demarcated has FEK that says it is a settlement. However, where forests have been smuggled for commercial purposes, in order to make villas and swimming pools, we will not support this action. The activity now being developed at the Ministry is geared to our initial commitment since the residence, through the OTA, is protected in the settlements to regulate urban and environmentally. We have the rural world to resolve the last period. That is where we are directed, and that is where our actions are organised. Now, with regard to the OTA area - I said this yesterday at the CEDEFOP conference - I am not saying it alone here, I have told the municipalities themselves - that the municipalities have sent out if I am not wrong only 40% of their limits for not being in the post and only 27% of the residential density to get them correctly, I think that this is where there is a great margin of insecurity towards the citizen. We need to remind them of the bell. We're gonna change the law. There is already in the proposal - normal article - to be late sending the settlements for another, two months, but running to do so so that the irrationalities you say do not appear, within a settlement, to interfere with whether they are forest or not. However, there is protection - and I close with this - of urban chains. You know that, Mr President, from forest legislation. We will not amend this, but see on what terms municipal projects are being made. I couldn't agree more. We'll continue after all.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u169	Minister, you should know - in addition to what Mr Giakoumatos said - that part of the National Road in Kapandiditi, based on the law passed, is a forest. Part of the National Road, the road, it's a forest! Here, Mr. Yakumato, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u170	You must have misunderstood, Minister. There's no Greek that's against forest maps. That's the point. What's the matter? The forest maps of 1937 and 1945 have a forestry insanity. For example, in Penteli there is the yellow zone, the green zone, which, as you said, has been incorporated into the plan, etc. Where the municipality should be allowed to intervene is for viral zones. That's where the municipality has to intervene.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u171	Sure. You have to.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u172	But here, we have forest ansympathy with the masters. You need to find a point of approach with the masters at some point. It is necessary for the scientists, but for you to sit down and talk a little bit, because they have their own "federalism". One is that. Secondly, I agree that you need to prioritise - and this is a matter - the agricultural world and the agricultural parcels, which have become a great spiral and a great mistake. But you should know that it is not possible to wait for how long to have the S.H.I.E. and have the objections. Also, we need to see how you bring a bill that covers the gaps that the Cironi law has. That's a fact. That is all, Mr President. I think things should be improved.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u173	Because I've been notified that you are expected in the Senate Hall, be brief, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u174	I shall conclude, Mr President. After all, we've already talked about Mr. Yakumato in the first circle. We therefore agree that by decision of the municipal councils the areas of residential density are identified and are sent to the CRP, i.e. in the land register, so that they can be introduced into and not be posted to forest maps. So here there is no need for further intervention, there is only one-off municipal council competence. But there was this timetable all in 2016, if I'm not mistaken, or in the second half of 2016. It's done. They didn't respond. What are we doing? In an article of today's bill we are debating, it is foreseen that the introduction of the settlements into the maps and, therefore, the exception to this posting will be made up to the last day of suspension, that is to say, about two months from now. So it is time for the municipalities and now - and lately - to help these regions and resolve them. We therefore have a duty to go back here and legislate on a tool so that the settlements that are not being posted are resolved in order to settle the virality, because it is an pending...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u175	A five-member committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u176	...and go to presidential decrees that will keep the forest balance. We'll count on the county or municipality's level how far the forest is. The rest will be settled in terms of ownership and use, but not at the expense of constitutional provisions, because the Council of State will reject it. After all, everything we say here must and is under the control of the Constitution. It cannot reduce the forest balance or the environmental reserve, and we have agreed this with the Constitution that exists today. We will therefore bring the regulation on housing density, to be organised and in accordance with the guidance of the Council of State. If you have any other suggestion on the other topics on forest maps, we're here. I think 90% -95% of the proposals made by the Government are resolved in this bill that we now have and the rural world. I keep a reservation. So if anything needs to be done, I would ask you to present it to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u177	If necessary, we will intervene, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u178	Be well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u179	Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. The Minutes of Wednesday, 22 February 2017 and Thursday 23 February 2017 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u180	The minutes of Wednesday 22 February 2017 and Thursday 23 February 2017 were therefore validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-07-S1-commons.u181	With the consent of the House at 12.21 p.m., the sitting for the Great Monday, April 10, 2017, at 17.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: a) parliamentary scrutiny, a debate on topical and urgent questions and b) legislative work, in accordance with the agenda to be distributed.
