ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights entitled: "Legal recognition of the gender identity - National Mechanism for the Training, Monitoring and Evaluation of Action Plans for the Rights of the Child and other provisions". Ladies and gentlemen, in order for all Members to speak, I shall start the sitting with those who are also speaking on the agenda. As you know, at 13.00 hours the meeting will be over. If the time is respected, with a calculation made by Mrs. Perifanos, everyone will speak. The rapporteurs will also have a brief seconds, as we promised yesterday. After the first speaker, the Minister may want a brief intervention to tell which ministerial amendments are accepted. And we'll keep up with the list. Mr. Poppa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u2	Good morning, gentlemen. The positions of the Golden Dawn on the draft law under discussion, this unsuccessful, unconstitutional and against every logical bill, have been sufficiently developed by both the Chief and all the speakers of the Golden Dawn. Golden Dawn fanaticalally, with an absolute consciousness of its position and its responsibility towards the Greek people, is voting against the new-seasoned acrobatic acrobatics of the conflict, which, through such bills, strengthens the foundations of the Greek nation, the foundations on which we state our absolute commitment, are the pillars of our national life, and are especially expressed on the trifle: home, religion, family. That is what has been supported for thousands of years and we do not renounce them for the sake of any idealism or adaptation to the European Union's neo-taxis. Above God, our homeland and our familia, we nationalists do not put any European Court of Justice - supposedly - human rights. We don't put any loan sharks on. We don't put any on-call authority. We admired yesterday the off-season domestic Bolsheviks' fight: the physics episode between the Minister of Justice, Mr. Kontonis, and the former Secretary of the Communist Party, Mr. Papapega. Red Bolsheviks blame the pink Bolsheviks and defend the bloody eternal mold of the October Revolution. Here is the clear difference between the Greek nationalists and us all. Very rightly, the Secretary-General of the People's Association - Golden Dawn once again pointed out that there are two parties in this Chamber: on the one hand there are political parties, all of you, and on the other hand the Greek people's party, the Golden Dawn, the movement of national resistance. And as long as you fight for your false revolutions - in October the left and French, the right ones - we Greeks look forward to a revolution: the Greek revolution, the Greek revolution of 1821, the unique nationalist revolution in world history, the revolution that took place for Christ the faith of holy and patrido. Xenophobia, rajadism, foreign standards appealed to the new Greek state and the Greek people to modern occupation, to the fragmented policy of the supposedly progressive to bring such illustrious bills to the vote. In fact, I do not find any words to express, as a representative of the nation, a representative of the Greek people, the discomfort of this people and mine. It is not enough, ladies and gentlemen, for me to be a simple 'you are not ashamed' because you really are not ashamed. It's lost by you every feeling of ignorance. You are not ashamed to lead an entire people to despair, because of your policies and are not ashamed to perpetuate the religious feeling of this people, which you want to replace with a slogan of foreigners and Greeks together, promoting the multicultural model of globalisation and the Isotope New Order. It was stressed by our speakers yesterday that homosexuals in a communist regime would be in gullaga. You, of course, instead of being in gullag, are in the oval offices, betraying your ideology. Of course, this does not surprise us, because the history of the Left in Greece itself is a betrayal. And in order not to be unfair, and the history of the Right in Greece is a betrayal. You're the one who's applying the 'part-piece' tactics. A little - a little degrading the national life of the Greeks, violating the Constitution. Detect part of the national education, the Armed Forces, the Greek culture and its values, the value of the Greek family and the value of this same man, whom you degrade with the various gay parade, which, anyone, even homosexual, who wants to retain a human dignity, despises. But it's not just you who apply the Leninist principles. Part - part of the Greek family was degraded from July 1974 to today. Since that time, I remember the dolphins, the so-called spiritual people, the artists and the political parties, who, in good cooperation, all together, put the basic core of the Greek national idiosyncrasy, the sacred institution of the family, which was fought and fought by the nationalists and natives of the left, rabies. Ladies and gentlemen, a family means a man and a woman. Family means union with the sacred mystery of marriage, which applies to the majority of the Orthodox Greek people. It's over and out. Anything else is unnatural, stupid and, above all, unethical. My peers, and smaller ones, will remember the images from the first grade reader of the '60s-70s. I testify to her for practical purposes to be there and remember her. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned picture, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So I remember the image of the Greek family at the lunch table and the notebook offered by the creator of the reader to the young children. Father, you'll see, he wears a tie on the table, a sample that he respects it. The family is tense, while today the tent is seen as a crime, it is considered anachronism and the children are taxed. Grandma's at the table too, she's at the house and not thrown into a nursing home. Mother serves to start eating, after prayer of course precedes first. And the painter has put on the fish table, which refers to fish, not hamburger. That was the meaning of the family then and it must always be. And those values then passed in the books, passing on to young children. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Golden Dawn is not an anachronistic movement. Nationalism as a worldview is entirely consistent with this very life. The slogan from his book thinker July Evos "Revolution against the modern world" is now more timely and more necessary than ever. Yes, it is true, ladies and gentlemen, in matters of homeland, religion and family we are not conservative. Because the most revolutionary act today against globalisation is the protection of traditions. We do not put water in our wine, as the pseudo-patriots LGBTKI of the New Democracy, who, in this bill, expressed their "travesti" policy, "yes, but". I mean, they agreed to gender change, but they disagreed with age. They said 'not at 15, but at 17'. One of the speakers said that "we..." i.e. the New Democracy, "we are on the side of the Church".
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u3	Mr. Pappa, hang up. You can't take any more time. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u4	Thank you for the minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u5	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u6	In other words, the New Democracy is on the side of the Church. You are on the side of the Church, promoting, selling, forcing the Quran, by teleshopping. Finally, you complete the work of national degradation with your tribal and degenerate bill, putting the well-known "Tourcotropology", which opens Halos's bourgeoisie for our national issues. Ladies and gentlemen, Greek nationalists are expressing the Greek people and fighting for a new Greece. We golden people are struggling for national education, national army, national production, national regeneration. Golden Dawn is the national resistance. It is the Golden Dawn of Hellenism and is present in the national struggles, inside and outside the Parliament. As is the fifth convoy present, all of you who are degrading the nation. You, the party of political parties. So you who will vote for the bill today, be sure - and the Golden Dawn will ask for a roll-call vote - that history will judge you. It will also judge you as political parties and as individuals. So there are a few hours left, Mr President, for the vote and those who have received an elementary treatment from their homes or those who have left a sufficient remnant of national conscience, I call on them to vote against the bill to be passed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u7	Shut up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u8	But those with their attitude to promote or consent to the crime, which is currently being committed in the Greek Parliament, will be sure that in the years to come they will pay. They will pay today's immune fund, they will pay for their actions, as the Constitution defines.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u9	Mr. Poppa, there will be no more warning. It'll turn off the microphone. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u10	Mr. President, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u11	Oh, no. All Members must speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u12	Why are you upset?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u13	I am confusing when it is at the expense of colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u14	Take care of your health, Mr. President. You should not be confused.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u15	Thank you very much. I'm a doctor and I don't need your advice. You might need mine. Please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u16	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u17	I'll do it. At the expense of colleagues, you won't be misusing time. It's over and out. I would ask the parties' secretariats, which are attending the meeting, to notify Mr Karayannides, Mr Hatzidakis, Mr Xydakis, Mrs Kasimatis to come. Because there will be no further tolerance. They'll be delivered and deleted. Mr. Stamatis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, what is it supposed to be trying to regulate this bill? The possibility of identifying gender by transgender persons, i.e. by persons experiencing an unbearable pressure due to an error of nature. And these people need to be protected, they need to be relieved, redeemed from this unbearable pressure and they need to be properly integrated into society. If we accept this general principle, then you have to accept that this can be done under two conditions: firstly, that it is transgender people, undeniably. And secondly, that their will to direct this change is serious and responsible. If these are not there, there is no serious piece of legislation, there is no serious response to the situation. So, if these are the conditions, given that the regulation we are trying to regulate is a rule of public policy, how does the state distinguish them from the existence of these two conditions? Obviously, after a documented, scientific finding, that is, the one missing from this bill. I would remind you that the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights rejects the idea of sterilisation or surgery, but expressly states, so it is legitimate for each Member State to have conditions. You are the ones who come out further than the justification for the judgment of the European Court of Justice. I do not know how many other Member States are applying this procedure, which you are adopting today, without any scientific documentation. That is why the bill is well known and unmistakable, because it does not have any scientific documentation. You have reached the point of writing your old shoes and paedophiliac Society and Psychiatric Society, which also expressed reservations about this. But there are also two proofs of lack of seriousness, with which you are legislating today. The first is that you suddenly changed your mind and lowered the limits on the exercise of that right from the seventeen to the fifteen years. I ask you, Minister: First of all, why did you do it at fifteen and did you not do it at twelve? With what documentation did you enter an age limit? What right do you unilaterally exercise the possibility of a regulation, which is clearly avoiding your scientific knowledge? In any case, does this House legislate, based on the judgement of a minister, who has listened to a parent and changed his mind? Is this a serious deal with the arrangement? Is that serious? You could also bring in a regulation - I repeat - which says 'from the age of 12', because that is how you have judged it. Is that the way this House legislates? The second is that we all agree that the will of the person who is going to make such a change must be serious. If it's serious, why do you put the right to a second change of this identity? This means that you alone recognise that the way and procedure you choose does not ensure the seriousness of the statement. I repeat to the Minister for Justice that this regulation is a public order and requires a different approach from the way you deal with it. Let's not be fooled, Minister. This arrangement doesn't bring her because you believe her or because you suddenly caught your pain. The real purpose of this arrangement is to be used as another alibi of "social sensitivity" towards a government policy, hard and ruthless, mainly against the poorest layers of society. That is why he felt the need for Mr Tsakalotos to interview and deal with - he surprised us - with a subject outside his subject, as if he had arranged everything else and taught us lessons of liberalism. If he was here, I'd tell him Marx's criticism of the left of this guy, but he's not. We'll have the conversation one more time. So this is the real purpose, which also emerges from another point of view: by trying not to have a real dialogue, not to try to get the approval of the parties, but to stand up to reactions, so that you yourself can defend this, in order to achieve the political purpose that I have just described. This is your real will. That seems to me to be another element, and I shall close it here, Mr President. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I was impressed by the degrading way in which the majority rapporteur, but mainly the Prime Minister, referred to the Church. What did the Prime Minister say yesterday? "Some circles that have old ideas and want..." etc. ‘Some cycles’. These circles are the Greek Orthodox Church, they are Mount Athos. Are you baptizing them today? This dishonoring, contemptuous, despising characterization against the Church is unprecedented. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, here we legislate, and the House has shown that many times it has made decisions against the views of the Church. Isn't that right? This did not mean, however, that we were talking in the despairful way in which yesterday the spokesman of the premier of our Church, the Prime Minister, and - to remind you - the beer and pilgrim of Mount Athos spoke. So, here we have an insult to the Church.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u19	And hang up with this, Mr. Stamatis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u20	Yeah, I'm hanging up. And I wonder, by addressing all of you, who attacked the Church: Does she or does she have no right to express her opinion on an issue, which certainly relates to the content of our Church?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u21	Her point of view, yes. But criticism...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u22	Wait a minute, don't interrupt me. I didn't interrupt you. You have another point of view. You're atheist. Hello, it's a pleasure to meet you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u23	Mr. Stopatis, don't answer and close please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u24	We're not giving credentials here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u25	I saw the look you spoke to about the Church.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u26	All right, Mr. Stopate, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u27	But there is a big issue here. This blind collision is appropriate and for what reason? It could be through a statement by the Prime Minister to show respect, even by mentioning the name of the Church.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u28	Mr. Stamatis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u29	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u30	Uh, yeah, you're finishing up, but you're already plus three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u31	Minister, if you really want to regulate these matters with this bill, you must withdraw them and discuss them together, in a spirit of understanding and in the spirit of the decision of the European Court of Human Rights, the proposal put forward by the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, if anyone who goes up to the Step does not keep the time - because he is speaking, and so he does not care about the next ones - I want to be clear now that half of those who expect to speak are not going to speak. If the time is respected, everyone will speak. I'm not going to be a bad guy with you every time I do the pedophile. Please, everyone who comes to the Step must respect those who follow. Mr Minister, you have the floor for the amendments. Then there's Mr. Hatzidakis and then Mr. Xydakis, that is, we're going in the order of the list.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u33	Mr President, I am speaking only to announce something which is well known in this House that all ministerial amendments are accepted by the Ministry of Justice. Besides, most of it is our Ministry, except for two, which is the Ministry of Labour. I say this in the knowledge of all the rapporteurs and colleagues who will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u34	All right, Minister, thank you. Mr. Hatzidakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin with a general position. I would be against the isolation of every fellow citizen, every human of us, of the rest of us. Obviously, in this spirit, I am against the isolation of transgenders. I really cannot understand what we all have to gain from such political and social behaviour. Therefore, things in the general direction in relation to the New Democracy are very clear. It is not only the 'rights' dimension, I would say even more, the traditional humanity of the Greeks, which must also distinguish us from this point of view. The Prime Minister yesterday called for the monopoly of sensitivity. He told us about 'zebras and lions', claiming that he is with 'zebras'. Prime Minister, we're all in zebras. But, you know, there are also some 'zebras' called 'taxables', which have been charged in these two and a half years of your own governance with twenty-seven new, additional taxes. There are some other 'zebras', called 'insured' and'retired people', who have seen their pensions cut down in the last two and a half years and twenty different ways and there are some other 'zebras', called 'news', leaving by tens of thousands abroad and who have lost one basic right: the right to dream. That's all about zebras and lions, so we can get the whole picture. From there on, having been placed in this way, in relation to the New Democracy's perception of transgender and human rights, I would like to say that this bill is rough and resorts to excesses and extremities. The issue, ladies and gentlemen, is not just about rights. It's also a matter of science. And I think the government has lowered the second dimension of the issue. New Democracy has not been left in slogans. It submits a specific proposal for a law to reflect its philosophy, its position, in general and in detail, on this matter. I would just like to dwell on one point, which - I think - is indicative of the difference of opinion we have. We, because we believe that this is a scientific issue, believe that there should be an opinion from special public centres - we are talking about, to say, the Centre for the 'Egypt Hospital' - not for another reason, but about legal certainty. In addition to the dimension of the right, there is the question of the functioning of the State, there is the question of certainty, in relation to the legal dimension of the matter. So I think the New Democracy's view is clear. We're with humanity, we're against the isolation of every fellow citizen of ours. We are not in the cuff, we are not in the excesses, we are not in this populist way that the government and this issue are facing. I have lived a number of years abroad, and I know that these issues are causing turbulence everywhere. It is reasonable, because they are new issues, that they are perhaps concerned with societies for the first time, and not everyone can follow the same step. That is one reason why the government, whatever governments, must deal with this issue, especially with great sensitivity. Instead, I think that the government is trying to plunder and even more to divide society in order to win some votes and recall that it is supposedly a progressive government. However, what eventually succeeds is not to divide the Opposition. You see, the New Democracy has a proposal and moves as a coordinate parliamentary power. What the government has so far managed to do is divide the government's majority. One of the two parties' leaders, who support it, has decided to go on a trip to Brazil, so that they are not here today in the vote and not to have government MPs raised objections to the content of this bill. It would, I think, be much better for both the government and Parliament and for our country if, instead of this treatment on the part of the government majority, there was another, really progressive, socially sensitive, and really addressing this issue. Speaking of all this, ladies and gentlemen, all we can do now is wait at noon, to see how the government majority will be placed and what will happen with the declared Government of Tsipras - Kammenos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u36	Mr. Nikolaos Xydakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the appreciation - I am not an experienced parliamentarian, I have no decades in this Chamber - that such meetings, such debates, are the decisions that give the real content and substance of democracy and parliamentaryism and bring every Member of Parliament, every elected MEP, to the people, to his fellow citizens, to his fellow citizens. It is the moment when the real one is taken, the deeper the phrase 'I am voting against consciousness'. This means, however, that we respect the mandate we have, we respect ourselves, we go to the trouble of fellowman and fellow citizen, and we enter into the essence of democracy and the essence of rights. The right is needed by the vulnerable, the weak, the one who has no voice, the one who cannot reach the hallways of the political offices and enter the House to hear his voice and make the famous lobby. And part of self-respecting our own is to get into the essence of a piece of legislation, understand his spirit and listen to the voice of society and the need that this legislation is called upon to serve. This piece of legislation, introduced by the Ministry of Justice, by the government in this Chamber, is intended precisely to help people stop being invisible, to be nonexistent, degraded, hidden, and by themselves, people who know what they are - not just have chosen, but feel what they are - and they are not allowed to be, what they are. And the state comes to help the judges, who in a series of decisions in recent years have taken the step, proceeded and decided ad hoc for the equitableness and the existence of these people. It goes without saying that such legislation, which aspire to regulate changes in social needs, changes in social attitudes, requires study, needs thought, need courage and boldness from those who will legislate. Often, this necessary debate and reflection have not taken place within us, in our souls, in our minds, and we are getting unprepared, unprepared in Parliament. And many times, what we carry in Parliament's Chamber is our stereotypes and prejudices. We don't come with open ears to listen to society, listen to its needs. And many times, what it retreats is not our responsibility toward fellow citizens, people and to history, but how we hide behind 'rash' vote, behind pretexts, behind our own weaknesses, so that we do not take on the role that we asked of the citizens, to come here to this Chamber. There was a lot of talk about the role of the Church. I would like to make two clarifications. For us, for our own thoughts, the Church is not the hierarchy. Church is the body of the faithful. We are all baptized, whether intentionally or unintentionally. When you are baptized three or six months old, you have no choice to be baptized. But you enter the body of the Church, you enter the body of tradition, you enter later as a free - willed person. We're talking about the Church. Have we heard all the hierarchs or those who are accustomed to threatening with exiles? Do we hear the hierarchs, who preach the love, who preach the deed, who preach the inclusion? Do we hear the priests, priests, shepherds, Christians, who preach and live with the inclusion, kindness and love? Democracy and evangelical teaching share the same values: charity, charity, solidarity, equality, love. These are at the core of Christian teaching and we should not allow a vulgar Nazi, who denies his identity, to make us sermons of enlightenment, gospel and youthfulness. Let them stay in their dark pit where they were and where they're coming back. I would, however, like to address my fellow Members, those who are in this Chamber, those who are listening to us and those who are coming later to vote: we will be judged by history, not by the transgenders, not by this small group, which we are called upon to defend and protect. We will be judged on whether we promote the universal values from the time of the great revolutions, at the era of Enlightenment, whether we will defend the worthy core and political liberalism and the French Revolution and all the Left from the eighteenth century onwards. We will be judged on whether we are listening to society, its agony, its lusts, its searches and its contradictions yet. I will not forget how the Senate Hall was transformed during the debate in the committee when the very people concerned spoke about them, the parents of the people concerned. These are moments when parliamentary life, which is honored by democracy, when society itself, the only sovereign, the only one for whom we have to fight, enters this Chamber, breaks the stereotypes, breaks the roles, breaks the ballot. Only then gains meaning and light for parliamentarians, when people will see us thinking, parliamenting and voting, deciding. We will be judged - and we are judged - whether we are helping society with our example and with our model to move forward, towards light. Today's vote is a vote for dignity, isopoliticalism, empathy, humanity. And such moments of judgment and responsibility will be that will engrave in our minds and remain our way through this Chamber. Those who do not surrender to cynicism, which is involved in power and the exercise of power, will remember such moments of politics. So let us do our duty to the weak, the vulnerable, the unjust, our fellow humans. We owe it to ourselves, mostly to ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, too. The floor will now be taken by Mr Christos Dimas, then by Mrs Vayonakis, who was not called yesterday, and then by Vice-President Christodoulopoulos. Here, Mr Dimas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. The New Democracy will vote against the government bill. The government majority, once again, uses a social group to transfer the public debate away from its daily problems, whether these are citizens' debts to the public, seizures, first home auctions, over-taxation, pension cuts, unemployment and the completion of the third assessment. At the same time, he does not care about the consequences of the size and style of this debate on those who are supposed to be interested. The debate on the bill we are debating today is a debate, which should be done in other terms and obviously, with another aim. The reality is that, instead of regulating a situation, this bill creates new issues and aims only at disorientating Greek society from the problems it faces. In simple terms, the government uses these people to create a diversion from the damage itself has caused the country. As regards the New Democracy as a whole, we are trying to approach the issue with great care and sensitivity and, at the same time, to contribute to the establishment of a process which will not offend people's personality. It will recognise their individual rights and, at the same time, it will be compatible with what science currently defines. No one doubts, therefore, that there is a need to modernise the framework for the protection of individual rights. What creates problems, however, are the pillowing, the way and the philosophy in which the government majority attempts to legislate. We are therefore opposed to this draft law, and we do not believe that this reality must be dealt with on a case-by-case basis and without any real dialogue. The aim of all of us must be to adopt an effective framework, which will ensure the individual rights of the social groups concerned, but will not give rise to new problems and will not expose these people to unauthorised social stigmatisation for communication only. So our objections to this bill are specific. I'll focus on two issues. Initially, I will focus on the issue of the age limit, on the basis of which a child will be able to change the legal identity of his gender. Do you really consider a child 15 years old to make such a decision? Is the physical and mental development of a 15-year-old child completed? Even if we accept that there is parental consent, does this improve the critical regime in which such a decision is taken? So I disagree with the limit of 15, as the scientists disagree. It's not just New Democracy that tells you. The scientific community tells you through the Paedophiliac Society of Greece. In its note, after complaining that it was not called upon to submit its views to the debate, it states its opposition to the age limit of 15. It notes, in fact, that this is an age characterised by the liquidity of the gender-shaped, while expressing the concern that allowing teenagers to enter such a process will only improve their mental situation. I repeat for those who have not listened: it will be a burden rather than a burden on their mental status. So, beyond and above all before legislating, we should also listen to the opinion of specialist scientists, taking into account the great complexity of gender-drug behaviour in childhood and adolescents, and the conditions under which this social transition will take place, as it requires particular attention at all such stages. And it's not just a judge, no matter how well he does his job, to make up his mind. Sadly, however, for SYRIZA the issue of legal gender identity begins and ends in the element of will. In other words, redefinition of gender is done by means of a judicial decision, but only with a single statement by the individual. And what if at some point that person wants to change his identity? No predictions. What if he's already married to a person and has children? forecast. What will the consequences for him if gender dynamics continue? forecast. And, since gender change will be a judicial act, how can you consider that the state's prerogative information should not be of interest? These are a number of questions, in which the answers should be very careful and certainly a product of consensus, not unilateral government decisions and small-party games. Beyond our institutional role in this Chamber, we are obviously human. And no man can feel well, knowing that a fellow man is dissatisfied with him, let alone this discomfort comes from the weaknesses of the state. So I call on you, Minister, to take back the bill, not to create any further problems and to discuss all these issues from the outset, with consensus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u40	I too, Mr Dimas, for the strict observance of the time you have spent. Mrs Vagonakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u41	Mr President, I would like to make a point before entering the bill. The New Democracy colleagues, in order to throw the ball at the platform, accuse the government of all the evils and suffering that are happening at the place, as if they were not the ones who have ruled Greece so many years, as if their policy were not the one that created these problems. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law on the legal transition of sex is another important step towards respect for fundamental human rights among our fellow citizens, whose problems have so far been ignored by many of us or for voting reasons have been shattered. But the time has come to put an end to this suffering and humiliation of our fellow humans. This bill makes it easier to correct sex for those of our fellow citizens, without having to undergo degrading or brutal procedures, without requiring surgery or the existence of prior medical treatment, related to physical or mental health. Gender correction turns into a simple and discreet process with legal certainty for the citizen, but also for the legal order and thus for the state. This bill comes to respond to the mature needs of the times and the modernisation of the institutional framework, which concerns a small but important part of our citizens, an institutional framework, which, as has been said, was set in 1976, but needs to be modernised on the basis of the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights, the United Nations, the International Health Organisation and Greek legislation. I would remind you that there are twelve final judgments of the Greek courts, which are prompted precisely by this legal arrangement. Ladies and gentlemen, for those who forget or do what they are forgetting, defending the rights of our fellow people is a constitutional check. But that's not all. It is a great effort that is being made in a progressive framework for a society with fewer discrimination and a final aim of permanent eradication for all. In our efforts we have sought broad consultation, we have listened with respect to all views, we have listened to the recommendations of institutions, reasonings, but also of the scientific community, we have examined with interest the views of major international organisations, which have been positive in guaranteeing this right and have sought experience from dozens of European - and not just - states which have adopted corresponding legislation. We have then moved on to the necessary corrective measures - where necessary - so that we can be sure that the bill is mature, but knowing that even when it is voted on, it needs work in society, in education, in the workplace and also in the institutions, in order to further protect our fellow people, as the changes in social attitudes require time and multi-level interventions. At the same time, on the occasion of and the attitude of leadership, but also of several members of the Officerial Representation, inevitably questions arise about the functioning of democracy, the reliability of parliamentary procedures and the practices of parliamentarians. Ladies and gentlemen, what do you really think? Should the politician be put sober on the basis of his logic, but also his true overall picture, or should he adjust his views, depending on the timing or mood of the electoral client? Should he be able to inspire and lure or be brought to the altar of the electoral benefit? Is there a European card or should we ensure that the Greek citizen does not enjoy any less rights than the respective European citizen? Accordingly, a party organisation for so many decades while New Democracy is allowed to leap between liberal and extreme conservative bishops and actually try to escape through the deposit of its last moment of draft law? Why has it not done so in the past during its administration or even during the debate in the committees? But this may be better, because there are different dividing lines between the progressive and conservative forces, the forces that want to take the country forward and the forces that keep it back. I will conclude by saying this: a panic is being observed in the public debate that legal recognition is an attempt to impose a specific standard on gender and human relations. I think that behind this position there is a lack of confidence in society and the people who go far beyond today's debate. In other words, the idea is that people cannot manage the opportunities given to them, so it is preferable to marginalize them and oppress a part of society. We, who do not even define ourselves as a liberal party, believe that paternalism cannot be adopted as a social and institutional practice. On the contrary, we can and it is necessary to show confidence in people's ability to make choices for their lives and their family's lives, because for us freedom is not exhausted in the individual sphere, but passes through what the person can and cannot do next. Therefore, with today's bill, we are called upon to respond to much more than defending a self-evident right. We are called upon and you are invited to answer for the defence of the core of our democracy, for which we can only discuss enlargement rather than its transformation or its transformation. With these thoughts, I invite you to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u42	The third Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastasia Christododoulou, has the floor and then Mr Simos Kedicoglou. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. First of all, I would like to say that, although we have arrived on the last day of the debate just before the vote, the noise that has started for this bill continues with irreversible tension. Because at the end of the day, I think that behind this noise there is a great political and ideological race. And I'm going to explain what this rehearsal consists of. The ideological race between those who agree and those who disagree with the bill is about the viewpoint of society, the developments and the diversity of people. This is an issue that we see emerge over time, on the basis of various bills, behaviours, various human practices, various movements that arise and people's attitudes towards it. The political race has to do with the passion of most parties who disagree with the bill against SYRIZA. They are constantly seeking to find an opportunity to corner the government, as they think, to create political noise and, if they can, cause a political crisis to lead the government to fall. They also consider that the government is in political weakness. Have they arrived - how do I say it? - in a state of arrogance due to polling, and they think that perhaps with this pressure and noise, they force the government to compromise. They say: "To withdraw the bill, reduce the age limit. How dare the SYRIZA Government with such polls, with such internal contradictions to the government insist?’ So this political and ideological race is taking place today in here and, of course, outside here with the media that have first news. For the last 15 days, the gender identity has become first news, in the Church and in the others that have been involved throughout this process. So let's see how we can discuss it with coolness just before we get to the vote. I also said in the debate in committee that SYRIZA does not believe in the competition of individual and social rights. We believe that both of us, both individual and social rights, are equally respected, and are interlinked. Others have contradictions when they speak of the greater importance of social rights than individual rights. And who have such contradictions? First of all, those who are neoliberal, who have forgotten Thatcher, who said that "there is no society, only individuals" and who appeared as a fan of people who can magnify in the market and become great, rich, educated, etc., while society, classes, are worthy of mocking and contempt. So here we see that all of a sudden individual rights are nothing, so this government does not satisfy social rights. But what do we see? When the government meets social rights, when it introduces free access to health, they vote against it. When voting for social solidarity benefits, they vote against them. We have not seen any Sacred Synod ever go out and say anything about all of this or even condemn unfavourable measures that we have voted as government. He suddenly showed up on this. And what's that? The Commission's proposal is based on the principle of equal treatment of men and women in matters of social That is, forty-one years ago, a gender change has been introduced, and suddenly there has been a great noise of gender correction. Be careful, there was a gender change without any condition, no age, no celibacy, nothing. And all this noise becomes, while there is a bill that sets preconditions, but this debate is being concealed deliberately, because there is the other thing I have told you, the political and ideological debate that is taking place. Here, then, all the intentions must be revealed, so that society, which, perhaps, is surprised or perhaps confused, is also aware of what is going on so much noise. So let's put it in its real dimension. Ladies and gentlemen, we are all here talking for the individual right to vote. Otherwise, we'd be somewhere else. We should therefore have particular respect for individual rights. We also need to know that without the individual right of the 'cooperative' which the Constitution says, namely the organisation of people in social groups, it could not succeed in winning any victory, because without that, his voice could not be heard. So both the "cooperative" and the "collected" and all these individual freedoms have reached the story where it has arrived and the conquests here have arrived. So there is no question of a competition for individual and social rights to end this unpleasant and unscrupulous debate. But, in order not to get far, I would like to go any further: these views, conservatives, in my opinion, are now being put forward by the fanatics, which, when they take place in other religions, are creeping down on us. When religions appear that want to go backwards, which interpret the Qur'an with a fanaticism, that's where we scare. We're not scared here. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very dangerous time to tolerate such views, to censorize what the government will propose as a legislative initiative. We cannot tolerate such an institutional racist, divisional and dark speech. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the third Vice-President is ringing.]] There are also views that are incorrect to singleness as a precondition that we have set ourselves. There is Council Resolution 2048/2015, which says that divorce as a condition offends the principle of family unity and is wrong. There are opinions which do not comply with the 15-year-old limit. They want younger ages, because in younger ages they are the major mental injuries. And yet these views are hidden to go to the most extremes and to engage in dialogue elsewhere. And of course we are presenting parents here as if they were irresponsible, as if they were not interested in the interests of their child. And the House, the protectors, will come here to protect children from parents, who will take the initiative for legal recognition of their child's gender. Who are we? Is it possible in Greek society to say that parents cannot understand the interest of their child? Is it possible to think that a parent, because the child will tell him: 'Daddy, Mom, I want to be a girl', will he immediately rush to the lawyer and go to court? Do you understand where we live? What are these things? I think the level of confrontation has fallen into nadir. And I close with the issue of political controversy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u44	Pick it up as long as you can, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u45	I would like the same treatment as some who preceded it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u46	Don't take it "teacher you've taught" both of us. Is that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u47	You're right. We're doing this, too. So I get to the question of the long-standing debate. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a fact that our Constitution sets out the conditions under which the declared one is lost. And they are in cases of distrust or lack of confidence in the government in Article 84 of the Constitution. When a law is not passed, there is no way that it will result from the Constitution or another law that the government loses the declared one. On the other hand, it is clear from Rule 105 of the Rules of Procedure that if a law is not passed by the government having the legislative initiative, it is reinstated to vote again at another sitting on a condition: if the votes taken were more than the negative. It has therefore not entered any provision of the law that if a law is not passed there is a matter which is declared. Let the political fantasies think that something will happen, there will be a political crisis that some will take advantage of. After all, this is highly hypocritical - and I am closing with it - I will remind you of what happened in 2015. In 2015, SYRIZA lost the declared, as you would remember, because a series of MPs, members and members were politically differentiated. So then the government considered its obligation to hold elections. Because he didn't have a statement. You remember all your complaints then. Why did you run elections? And the PASOK and the New Democracy: 'You laughed at us, you took the vote in the memorandum, you did us that, you did the other thing and you did the other thing.'
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u48	Mrs. Christodoulou, please close.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u49	So the proclaimed one card. Gentlemen, that's not a policy! This is political unreliability and benefits parties and opinions that are against democracy, and we need to understand that, as is the racist and fanatical speech developed by many and many in here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, I have spoken with Mr Kedicoglou, but I would like to ask him to speak with the injured Mr Karagunis. Immediately afterwards you will take the floor, Mr. Kedicoglou, and then Mr. Koukoutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u51	Good, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u52	The Bureau wishes to see Mr Karaguni passing on to his colleagues. Here, Mr. Karaguni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President, for your best wishes. Ladies and gentlemen, I have had the honour of first introducing the bill under discussion to the committee responsible, but because of the obvious health problem I could not be present at plenary sittings. All this time as a New Democracy we have analysed our position adequately for the bill, but of course we have also pointed out the objections we have had, and we have certainly never received a reply from the Minister. Objections which seem to have some of them, including your government partner, and not only, but also some of your SYRIZA Members. And, you know, we're going back to the original question that we asked you and the committees: finally, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, do you have a majority on this bill? Do you have any, Minister? Or are you looking for loan votes again? Or do you think you'll vote again as it suits you? Do you know what this truly vile picture you are presenting in parliament shows? It shows how roughly you legislate in a bill admittedly very sensitive. You are bringing the bill without any real dialogue, without any understanding and full of anointings - which we have pointed out to you - and now of course you are running to collect the unbundled ones. You do not agree with each other, and that is why you are presenting this picture. Nor can I, ladies and gentlemen, comment on what Mr Tsipras said yesterday, but others from SYRIZA, who, of course - we heard him carefully yesterday - tried to make cheap use of the liberals or I do not believe in the New Democracy. First of all, we should explain to the Prime Minister that if the memorials are liberal, which unfortunately is not, he should be the greatest liberal in Greece, because the hardest application of the memorials by Mr Tsipras does not exist. And of course I do not say it, but those who have read Mr Varoufakis' book "Age in the room" know.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u54	Did you read it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u55	Of course I read it, Mr. Manda. They know that his former Minister actually describes him as the Shoeble sideline in Europe. That's how he describes him! Secondly, with regard to the ideological attacks that we have taken yesterday by Mr Tsipras, we should remind him, as we should also remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that ideological friends, Mr Madouros and Mr Castro, who were running to meet them as the only leader from Europe, as the only leader from the Western world at the infamous funeral, but also the other unscrupulous competitors in North Korea and elsewhere, the transgenders, Mr Barcas, and their homosexuals are putting them in the camps. That's the reality. For your information - why you won't know - to remind you that the sexual identity liberation movement was greatly strengthened in the late 1970s by a famous film starring William Hart who was embodied in the drama of homosexuals in Cuba in Castro. I'm telling you, just so you know. We are therefore reversing what Mr Tsipras said yesterday, ladies and gentlemen of the government. In New Democracy, don't talk about liberalism a card. You and your government are a card and you prove it every day on all matters. Lessons of liberalism do not accept from people who have man-made politically, who are trading the war against open societies of the West and who are constantly converging - many of you from your young age - with all those who are currently talking about the rights that we are talking about. As long as you publish such senses and as long as you are embraced with such people, human rights lessons, lessons for liberalism and the rule of law we do not accept. The New Democracy has been clear from the beginning. We have made it clear that we are positive about legislation, as is the case everywhere in Europe. It is also clear that almost all European legislation contains terms and conditions, which are most importantly based on the rulings of the European Court of Human Rights. We have indicated that, as you bring the bill to the vote, it will create more problems than it is supposed to be trying to resolve and focus our criticism on two issues: firstly, the abstractology of the bill on the conditions for the correction of a registered gender; and secondly, the possibility, once again, of the will to correct it. We have tabled, as we said before, an integrated proposal to regulate the issue, which will effectively and safely resolve a problem which is indeed a fragile and very sensitive social group, which is constantly undergoing racist attacks and attacks on hatred and violence. It is an issue that is the responsibility of a favoured state to regulate it, but in a way that respects human rights, it will respect individual, but also public interest and, of course, it will go hand in hand with the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. Our proposal covers these gaps, namely, respecting the choice and will of the person to go hand in hand with international reality and Community case law and taking into account any impact on third persons directly associated with the applicant. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] As for the vagueness of the bill, which I have already mentioned, it is not just us, but, as you know in the committees, Amnesty International and the Family Law Society have noted, where they have highlighted the problem of the article, but also the possibility of circumvention of the law. For us, the role of the judge should be essential, rather than a processor, and in the exercise of the function he must have specific means of proof, which we have of course already tabled to you with the amendment. However, as you have drawn up Article 3 - and this, of course, proves to be more ambiguity, more vagueness is caused and, ultimately, greater problems are added rather than solutions, as you do.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u56	And that's what you're closing down with, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u57	I'm closing, Mr. President, in a minute. We therefore say clearly not to the arbitrary limit of 15 years of age, not to the change of the new term of office, because the spirit is being circumvented, but also to the substance of the law, which is based on the element of firm and irrevocable will, which is, in any case, presupposed in all the judgments of the European Court of Justice as necessary to correct the registered gender. Finally, we say no to a rough piece of legislation that you brought to the foot and you are now looking for your own MPs to vote on it. We together and in line with the majority of European legislation and European case-law - and I stress that - have tabled a proposal that is satisfying both individual and public interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u58	Please help Mr. Karagunis get out of the hall. In turn, Mr. Kedicoglou, Mr. Koukoutsi, and then Mrs. Manolakou. Mr. Kedicoglou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to make a first comment on the previous SYRIZA MEP: Any political and government crisis cannot be due to the opposition. You know, in democratic regimes, it's not the Antipopulation's duty to support the government. Any government crisis is due to your government partner, who despite the cover you gave him for roulettes and casinos, has preferred to go to Brazil and create declared issues. On the substance of the matter now, ladies and gentlemen of the government majority, your political amoralism is well known. You have not hesitated to lie, mislead, deceive the vast majority of Greeks to serve your interests. The only idea you have left is that "the purpose justifies the means". And your only purpose is to stay in power, to attach to the chair by any means. We should, however, recognise that you are diverse in the methods of misleading and diversion, with the latest proof of this bill, which also shows your cynicism. And it is a typical example of what can happen when an existing issue of individual rights is dealt with in an opportunistic, turbulent way, with obvious micro-party purposes, without regard to the consequences. You are not really interested in transgender people, and this is seen by the way you are dealing with the issue. It is apparent from the clandestineness, unexplained speed, the total lack of prior dialogue. All you want is to sell false progress, sell "left" to stimulate your fallen components. You want to create impressions, to disorientate from the legal level experienced by most Greeks, especially the weaker ones. I'd say it's a typical case of false progressional provocation. Indicative is the unexplained addition at the last moment of the age limit at 15. It is not just that the paedophiliacs were uprooted, highlighting the increased risk, even suicides in such cases. It is that we have heard in this SYRIZA House saying that the limit could be at ten or even eight years. Would you like children to be guardian and to choose sex after the fifteenth year of age? Besides, we'll see the children and the angels have no sex. Black humor to show the degree of foolishness of your false advancement. Corresponding and with multiple gender-change possibilities. On the one hand, you consider the will of the individual so important that it will be sufficient for change alone, on the other, you consider the will insignificant because it can change. Again good that you do not suggest being able to choose one sex and the other. It's another proof of ridiculousness. But in this case, the whole issue of transgenders is being undermined, because you leave room for exploitation by unrelated individuals for self-interest. You say you are interested in transgender people. With the bill, however, you are offering them the worst service. You don't have to be a scientist. As long as he has read books such as Kostas Stefani's "Trito Stefani" or seen films, such as "The Angel", which was literally a tragedy taken out of life, to understand that the greatest problem for transgender people is the lack of understanding, alienation, marginalization, and often exploiting them. If you were really interested in transgender people, you should be prioritised to their understanding and integration into society. A decisive factor in this is the previous dialogue and with scientific bodies, the information society on the issue. On the contrary, the clipboard, opportunistic, turbulent way you chose stigmatizes and isolates these people more. For the many people, sudden and opportune involvement in this matter is unexplainable. They do not even know the difference between transgenders and homosexuals. Do you know what they say in the cafeterias? Because they do not understand and know the problem - and it is natural to deceive it in front of the acute problems of survival they face - they are enough to say, 'the world here is burning and the House is combing'. This is the worst service you can offer to transgender people. Instead of incorporating, promote isolation. Instead of understanding, you are causing more questions. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy is a clean, liberal party. We are a liberal political force that recognises the need to establish a procedure for correcting the gender registered as those who wish to. We recognise that there is a need to modernise the framework and protect individual rights, but not so sloppy, not so sloppy. We need public debate to take precedence. The most effective framework must be adopted to ensure that the individual rights of transgenders are served and there will be no new problems. Your legislative proposal is the definition of curiosity and opportunism. Instead of dealing with issues, you are creating new problems. You aim only at disorientation of society. On the contrary, transgender individuals are exposed to an unauthorized social stigmatisation for communication and only reasons. The New Democracy has an integrated proposal that is compatible with scientific experience and modern international reality. The Government must understand the seriousness of the issue and adopt our proposal respecting the choice of the person, guarantee confidentiality, go hand in hand with the international reality, ensure the consciousness of the will of the person concerned and its intent, take into account any impact on third parties directly linked to the applicant and ensure the necessary State intervention and information. Our proposal has been set out in detail. This is the right solution, not your opportunism, not your own opportunity to address a serious issue, but it is even more alienating interested parties about it, and of course we are voting against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u60	Mr. Koukoutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr President. Unfortunately, this Chamber continues hypocrisy from all sides. At a time when our people are suffering, when such important bills are pending, we are invited here to discuss an appreciation bill, which is of minor importance. On the other hand, they are trying to keep party and political balance. Let's not laugh, speak the language of truth and say things by their name. In this country and on earth there was whole homosexuality, there is and will be. What's the big difference? I'm going to get a little backwards in the past. I've been through 50. Do you think I like it or like the image presented in the last decades of "Phife" and "Floofli" that the whole neighborhood cried out for him? Of course not. He's human, and he's right to have his rights. But it won't become a model for a man who's unhappy for me and my child. I'm saying miserable because he's losing some things that we can't - practically see - enjoy them. The biggest, for me at least, moment of my life was when some nurse brought me to hug my child for the first time. It's a great pleasure that these people can't live. It's a blow, it's a problem, it's a misery. So this misfortune, I do not want to have it a model. I'll tell you along the way how I say that. Often the parties and Members of Parliament know that they are voting in this House in the light of party discipline. Are there any bills brought by the government and opposition? We know that it has so many Members, that the 'no', 'yes', 'yes', 'yes' and a sterile confrontation begins. Now this sterile confrontation does not exist. Why? Why does this bill have to be passed by a majority - and a large majority - and it will pass. This development, of course, is not surprising for anyone, because it is yet another link in a chain of actions that really aim to weaken the normality - and I will say what I mean regularity - of Greek society. Some are accused of fascism, they are accused of fanaticism, and arguments are the same fanatical and racist towards those who make another view. The racist sign is intense and those who are opposed to this bill are accused of a latent perceptions, a problematic attitude, etc. Every voice that goes against your logic is described as extreme. Unfortunately, people are losing their identity. You want to politicise transport and literally any objections to this bill and to homosexuality in general, and you seem to dislike gender discrimination, the abolition, as you say, of gender stereotypes. With the theory of the possibility of self-determination of gender, which is a fundamental human right, you promote gender relativisation and legislation. Always on this earth will be boys and girls. They will always play with different games and not just because that is how society trains them. It is a crime to eliminate the gender difference, because it is one of the fundamental components of our culture. It is an image that has been printed and is a point of reference to man and to its development over the centuries. That makes sense. It's simple. How is it possible to confuse the misery, the disorder of someone who wants to change sex with all these things? How can the souls of a weak minority accept them with a so-called scientific reality? Indeed, there are scientists who think it is a natural phenomenon - to say so - a natural development of homosexuality, but there are others who say the opposite. It is the arbitrary will of someone who wishes to abolish a regulation which distorts the principles of our own culture so far. How do you want to accept that? In Article 4 - perhaps I am handwriting, you will tell me - gender discrimination is clearly mentioned. It refers to Greek women and Greeks. There is a fraud on the part of the government, on behalf of Parliament, the media and all these subtle wise men who have been trying to convince me of my social sex in recent days in the media and glass. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It is an organised degradation plan, which is really going slowly. Unfortunately, in this country there are few people who have to fight against the hedonistic and materialistic character of our time. However, as much as you wish, biological characteristics cannot change. Is it ever possible to give, give change and liquidity to human gender? You are all talking about what is happening in Europe. Who told you that this Europe, of those values that Europe is taking up at the moment, is I or some other society? Is that necessary? No, of course not. You should know that history teaches and has shown that these societies that are slowly degraded and whole empires, when they arrived in their last days, have disappeared and disappeared sharply, bruises.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u62	That's what you're ending with, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u63	Yes, Mr. President. I hope and hope that this Europe will be different, because as has been said in this Chamber - and I will agree - degradation is coming slowly. It's too dangerous what's going on. They're all talking about possessed. Indeed, there are acquired, but all this is degraded today in all areas of Greek society. It's too dangerous.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u64	Mr. Koukoutsi, please, you're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u65	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u66	Mrs Diamanto Manolakos has the floor, and then Mrs Kasimatis will speak as a Parliamentary representative. Here, Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u67	To date there was no gender identification law. There were court rulings. They examined a series of medical advice on the physical and mental health of the person concerned. What about this bill now? The application to the judicial authority does not require scientific advice, i.e. you ignore and despise the fact that the individual has full scientific and social support as a prerequisite for gender change in legal documents. Of course, the social and mental problems faced by the individual are not solved by a mere administrative act in legal documents, and much more so do not ensure that the incompatibility is effectively resolved and supported by the family, relative, school, social environment, which it needs. But what do you do with this bill? Adopt the full biological and social segregation, pressing a booze of the law. You completely extract the anatomic characteristics of the gender, which are objectively defined, from the perception of the individual for the gender to which he belongs. Of course, the social perceptions of the sexes are not shaped by the individual experience of each and every one, but by a specific historical, social, economic, political and cultural environment. You question the racial segregation of a man - woman as an objective fact and you present that gender is something fluid and changing, once you do not accept any objective social background. For you the distinction between men and women is a false division that is built and not real. This, however, is an irrationalism of the carabinatos and, unfortunately, this perception, no matter how much it comes to racial determination, is reproduced on all sides of social life, after you come to say that there is no objective social criterion for determining a person's status in society, except the subjective viewpoint. Let me tell you that examples of self-determination are many and some are very extreme. Let's say, a sixty-year-old was defining himself as a six-year-old girl, which shows that there is no limit to the complete distortion of the objective social reality. In fact, this irrationalism is presented as a progression. We stress, of course, that there are cases where the individual is experiencing a strong conflict between certain characteristics of his sex and the gender in which he feels to belong for biological, social or other reasons. However, the legal recognition of individual rights to change sex needs objective and social protection measures. In other words, his individual decision needs to be based on a distinctly substantiated scientific and socially-institutional opinion. We set these conditions so that individual rights can be exercised in a substantial and not formal way. You do not accept this because it has economic costs and you justify in and out of disparate comparisons, such as the issue of fights against female inequality, which, of course, does not concern the recognition of some individual rights, but a profound social change in the social framework in which individual rights are formed. Compare disparate things, the question of the right of individual self-determination of sex to the female issue, which has been shaped within the centuries of class struggle, since women for centuries have been excluded from social production and therefore from any social action in the context of class society, since the work of the majority of women has been of no importance to the economy. That is why the efforts of some individual women to claim an upgraded position in society before the industrial revolution did not bear fruit. Later, the mass integration of women into capitalist production as wage earners, objectively contradicted their exclusion from social and political action. He fought, not only with regard to economic and trade union claims, the claims for the protection of women's organism, maternity, but also with regard to the class root of women's inequality, that is, against the class division of society. He fought for the unity of the working class, men and women. Women's rights struggles had political, classic content and are deliberately trying to hide it, trying to fit it all into the propaganda needs of a bill. However, the formal recognition of certain civil rights of women in the capitalist society does not relieve her of the inequality and life of the elastic. Capitalism produces inequality because it is a source of profit for them. Other examples may be mentioned when employers here require contracts from workers not to give birth to as long as they are in their work. However, the essence is that you are presenting individual rights seconded by social, economic and political conditions here, but no individual right remains certain and safe outside collective social rights. So why are you doing this? Because you need it to sell "lefty" with inexpensive materials and lift more reactionary, darkening dust, as well as hide your anti-grassy, extremist liberal policy. You sell sensitivity, while breaking the social rights that have been conquered since the last century and because your JRC is uncovering it is the reason why his positions have been twisted and slandered in a systematic and vulgar manner. Anti-Communism and fire against socialism are well aware that you will continue it, with several doses of'standardology' from all of you, because the people feel the rot of the exploiting system you serve, and that worries you deeply and fairly.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u68	Mr. Lazarides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr President. I can't start by saying something. We have heard from a colleague here today reporting to Maduro, etc. You know, ladies and gentlemen, there is also an Escobar, a drug dealer, who has bought teams, municipalities, newspapers and channels, as well as parties. That is why, when we refer to someone, we should not forget the other one there in his neighborhood. I would like to make a reference here to previous colleagues. We've had two kinds of locations or, if you like, approaches to the bill we're discussing. We have had colleagues who have taken a human approach, but we have also had colleagues who have clearly approached this bill. In fact, we also had others who did not just approach it politically, but with strong opposition, etc. I would like to congratulate those colleagues who have approached it with humanity, that is, from the humanitarian side, although I may agree with or disagree with some. What matters is that they approached it with sensitivity and we heard many things that were interesting. We, the Independent Greeks, were already present in committee and said that we were voting 'yes' in principle. Why did we do that? We did this because the bill has two legs. It has the first part, from Article 1 to Article 7, which is about what is written in the newspapers and we are all talking about, namely gender choice. But it also has the second part, which is about the protection and rights of the child. So we Greeks have said that we are voting at first, because we are taking these two sides into account. Because now, with regard to the first gender choice, issues are raised consciously or morally, as each individual sees it personally - because morality, if you wish, is approached by each one of us on his own, we cannot all understand here in the same way - which is why we have said that for such matters for a long time we have chosen to vote consciously, precisely so that each one of us can express himself in this way, as each of us can see, with his own, personal morality. So the subject of his personal morality, as well as his conscience, is also satisfying. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] As far as the amendment is concerned, we have heard some tough things here. It's done, it says, a transaction with the debate that was preceded here on the request of the Officerial Response for a committee of inquiry. It has been done, it says, a transaction and, because SYRIZA then supported the President of the Independent Greeks, we have now agreed on the amendment. If that's possible! As long as we read the amendment how it came in the past and how it came now. I would like to congratulate you, Minister, because that is how you actually shield national security and you leave no room for anyone to question it at all. We talked about it here. From the Plenary Step again, I had been here and asked you, Minister, to look at it more carefully, because yes, the previous one, as it had been before, satisfied the European Union's orders, but now we are shielding national security and there is no room for questioning from any bad option. In particular, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to read one point to you - because I see that no one has bothered to read it - which says: 'Without prejudice to the terms and restrictions laid down in the individual provisions of the European Convention on Human Rights on the Protection of National Security, Public Order, Crime Prevention, etc.'. Therefore, the amendment has indeed shielded national security. We're positive, Minister. That's how I'm gonna close my location. As I said earlier, the Independent Greeks will vote consciously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mrs Nina Kasimatis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I will start with the question of the amendment on the Turkish Union of Xanthi, which is the name of the change in the Code of Civil Procedure. We had requested that, when the amendment had been withdrawn, there should not be a new legislative amendment on the amendment of the Code of Civil Procedure, as proposed to the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, until there has been an extensive and multilateral debate on the best possible treatment of the three judgments of the European Court of Human Rights with a distinctive title of Bekir Ousta, which also covers the so-called 'Turkish Union of Xanthi', but also other decisions in favour of other unions which can benefit from this amendment of the Code, such as Steque of Macedonian Culture, which has also been justified in the ECHR and which is expected by the Greek authorities, the same legal path, in order to be implemented in the internal legal order. It will benefit from the same arrangement if it is voted on. I will try at this very short time on such a serious issue - which should have been discussed only in plenary, but also in the Special Standing Committee on Monitoring the Judgments of the European Court of Justice - to put to you briefly a few issues. First of all, I will put some data into it, because I think that in the public speech a dominant concept has prevailed, that what has to be done is something inevitable. The Treaty of Lausanne on these judgments does not constitute a law applicable to their judgment. The EDPS considered this irresponsible and proceeded without anyone else. The second is that there is a major reason to be double and threefold, because the proposed provisions allowing the review of these specific decisions are accompanied by the following analysis of the Committee of Ministers and the Management of Judgments, including: ‘In addition, it should be noted that measures of a general nature are linked to individual measures in these cases, as it is expected that the review of judicial cases on the basis of the decisions of the HRC, as provided for in the draft law, will have an impact on the initial procedures in similar cases’. I would also like to take into account the fact that, for Greece, according to the last decision of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, our compliance with the HEDN spirit in the procedures for registering unions has already been highlighted by the country's current case-law. I should like to state here that our country has been sentenced only to the specific decisions to violate the right of association in this respect and not to the article which it says of race, ethnic origin, etc. In other words, the court does not recognise that there has been a racist, in any case, attitude from Greece in relation to these associations, but that there is only a violation of the association. This is why, after all, 50 such associations have been licensed by Greece, which fulfil the conditions of the Civil Code and the Constitution, as well as the EDPS. Therefore, the irrevocable decisions of the Ice Bay Plenary Assembly on those associations, such as the so-called 'Turkish Union of Xanthi', with the reasons invoked by the Ice Bay Council, do not constitute a general principle of compliance for the country. I would also like you to know something else. There is a concept and attitude in the Council of Europe in relation to the Muslim minority. Very recently in June 2017, a resolution titled “Protecting the fundamental rights and freedoms of the Turkish Muslim minority” was passed. This, while it had to be considered unacceptable within the Bureau of the Council of Parliament, was unfortunately referred to the Equality Committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u72	He hasn't been there.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u73	Please don't interrupt me because I have the documents here. Unfortunately, this resolution has been referred to the Committee on Equality to take account of the drawing up of questionnaires on the rights of national minorities in the countries. If you want me to repeat the title of the resolution, it is: 'In defending the fundamental rights and freedoms of the Turkish Muslim minority in western Thrace'. The assessment of the relevant decisions as well as the time and manner of their implementation, I believe that they should be chosen on the basis of the protection of individual rights, as they are weighted for all citizens without exception in the light of the greater public interest in the constitution of the laws and international conventions of the country. In this regard, obeying an integrated and coherent minority policy in Thrace to defend the rights of all three components of the Muslim minority oppressed by the sovereign. Our dominant policy, which should deepen and dictate the management of our decisions before the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, is the one that should play its part and not the other. I would like to add my own amendment. Minister, I believe that the amendment, with the amendment you have brought, has become even worse. There was the argument that we should change the Code of Civil Procedure, because this has also happened in the Code of Criminal Procedure and in the Code of Administrative Economy. No objections. We fully agree on this. Greece is a pillar of European legal culture itself, as much as it is. But here there are some things that shouldn't be like that. First of all, the main article has included the restriction of the right as described in 11.2. It is tabled, it enters, it becomes an essential part of the provision, and this excludes everything else. In the previous provision this did not exist. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. There is also the question of the transitional provision, to which we are invoking international conditions, but now we are doing so in the main part of the provision. Also, in all previous cases, where it was introduced in our remaining procedures, the 90 days deadline was given. This gives the ninety-day deadline for those cases that come in the future, but for the cases now in the court, which have been decided, a one-year leave is also given. One year seems to me to be infinite, i.e. I do not know if there is another one in our legal order.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u75	I believe that further corrections could be made, if nothing else to assess the case from the outset, to move on to harmonisation issues. However, the transitional provision relating to these cases should be kept aside, because they can be made backwards. Let us not ignore this at all - and I close with it - that our judges, who have made their irrevocable decisions, will have to take account of them, of course, and in any case will be killed in some way, since this is only described, to accept the violation of the right of association. I think we're throwing the ball over a case that is purely political, and there are no issues that are as high a supervision as they have been described. Many countries, for specific decisions, are under the so-called'supervision' of so-called decisions. Generally Greece has a very good performance in too many articles. Where he is suffering is mostly in the long run that the procedures are holding. There I believe that as a Greek state we can do too much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u76	Madam Colleague, please get it over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u77	In this way we can correct our performance in relation to compliance with the Council of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, too. Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, for two days a great deal has been said and heard. However, they did not hear and said what they feel, what the vast majority of Greek society says. A society that spends the eighth time of a harsh crisis and which now feels to be directly placed not only on its economic and living level, but even on these sacred, loyal, principles and values that have for centuries supported Hellenism. I know and accept that some people do not even accept the word 'national'. They consider the traditions and principles of centuries as outdated things and values, the only place for the best of times being the case of the museum. Let them know, however, that those who defend themselves are a weak minority. This applies not only to this bill, but also to other issues relating to gender, the cohabitation pact of homosexual couples, the possibility of adopting children, and even the indication of religion in identities, and even the separation of a state and a Church. Because they are indeed important issues, we wish it would be a referendum without the safety of Members' party discipline. Ladies and gentlemen, I listened with great commitment yesterday to the Prime Minister's intervention on this bill, which focused on the need to defend and broaden individual freedoms and rights, but also on the need for the current government to support the rights of the weakest and small groups that have been oppressed for years. I'll agree to an antenna with the Prime Minister. So I will ask him: When are we going to talk and bail out in this Chamber on the rights of young unemployed people or hunger workers? When are we going to talk about the rights of the redundant, the disabled, the retired and the luxurious? When will we defend the right to decent pay, decent insurance and medical cover? And when will we stand up and defend, for example, the need to increase the minimum wage and wage? All those who I mentioned, ladies and gentlemen of the government, what are they, in your opinion? Are they lions or zebras? Of course they're zebras. They are the many losers in a Greece whose state has not yet recognised their rights. Once again, however, I should like to try to follow the thinking of fellow rapporteurs. I put the rhetoric question: Since I have the right to self-determination of my sex, why do I not have the right to self-determine the height and colour of my eyes? Why shouldn't I be able to change with one of my applications some of my biological or ethnic or racial data, as I can change my gender? Is it all a matter of personal choice, or is there a thin dividing line, and this is the human ideological and spiritual starting point, ladies and gentlemen? My own ideological and spiritual starting point, like most, suggests that it is not possible to change biological data based on the "l want" or emotional and mental changes of the individual and the state hasten to safeguard them. We cannot get to the point where organised society accepts the distortion of biology, because that is how one feels. I am not voting for the bill as a politician, as a democrat and as a Christian who considers his country and his religion to be the most human-centered, democratic and liberal. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not, nor am I, to be the master perfect. However, I can say that throughout my life and throughout my political journey I have tried to follow a purely worthy code that does not enter any other yoke, beyond my consciousness, as well as the balance of my responsibility towards God and my fellow Christian orthodox citizens, whom I represent. Both for me and for the Christian Democratic Party of Greece that I represent, the freedom of the individual to use his body and his mind at will is undeniable and guaranteed and fully respected. However, further initiatives that indirectly transform peculiarity into rule and minority majority everywhere and will always find me contrary to any price. Some have their own extralarge beliefs about the bill under discussion, which are obviously far from mine as light from darkness. Since some colleagues felt obliged to convey to Parliament the voice of the community of transgenders, I personally feel the need to convey the voice of the Greek Orthodox Christian Church. The Greek Church states: "The gender in man is a sacred legacy and serves, on the basis of psychosomatic complementarity, the mystery of life and love. In this sense, it is not eligible, but as a gift it is a divine gift to man. It is not chosen or altered at will, but on the basis of the anatomic, physiological and biological characteristics that define its identity." I present the announcement of the Sacred Session just to be in the Minutes. In addition, let it be heard by this Step and by the voice of the Holy Fathers, who, among other things, ask: "What Orthodox MEP of the Greek Parliament will vote on this law?". They then ask for the withdrawal of the bill. So I am not that Orthodox MP who will vote for this bill. For about thirty years I have had the honor and responsibility of representing in the House citizens who fear God, love at home, and devotion to the family. I'm the ones who represent me, and I'm their trustee. There are times when each of us in this Chamber is only confronted with his principles and conscience. Looking particularly at the side of the Officerial Response, I would like to ask myself once again: Who do they represent and who are expressing today? Kyriakos Mitsotakis, after having had enough trouble, finally decided to turn through the engagement, apparently looking at the difficult ones and realizing that, although he has made commitments to transgender people, as I have read before time in a report from the centre-centred newspaper "DIMOCRATIA" - which I will present to you the relevant copy - but these commitments bring him directly to the great majority of society and to the basis of his party. So he decided to testify his own patent to the legal recognition of gender change, thinking he could step on two boats: and the government's bill not to vote, but also not to oppose the legal guarantee of gender. But the issues are not for micro-political triplets. The people understand, and Mr Mitsotakis finally, let us decide who he represents. The members of the LGBT or the Orthodox community? He has to choose. The Greeks and Greeks are watching us all and waiting for our answer. But, as far as we've arrived, we said that everyone is being questioned with their conscience and society is out there and judges us all. Personally, however - and I am ending - I prefer to express the silent majority that may not organise parades of pride, because it honors gender, home, religion, but there is and is expressed once and for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Athanasios Pafilis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u81	Our rapporteur and the speakers of our party, the JRC, have fully developed the scientifically substantiated and profound human concept of the JRC on the issue we have been discussing these two days for a long time. Some axes will repeat them again. The Communist Party of Greece recognises the right to gender change in legal documents, where the individual experiences a strong conflict between the characteristics of his sex and the gender that feels belonging to biological, social and other reasons. "This is homophobia?" as Mrs Theleritis said with an incredible turbulence last night. Secondly, we say that legal recognition needs to be based on certain objective criteria and on measures to protect the individual. We are not, of course, talking about amputation, which is a barbaric measure. Is that right or wrong? Are there objective criteria, yes or no? SYRIZA says there aren't at least a lot of SYRIZA. There's nothing objective. It's what you think. Idealism in the takeoff. Reactive theory that has been devastated for hundreds of years. And secondly, measures to protect the individual. I'll come back. Thirdly, we say that the individual decision needs to be based on a discreet - I repeat discreet - documented scientific and social opinion. What for? In order to help the individual resolve this incompatibility he has and also to have corresponding support for both the family and the family and family, but above all the social environment. Is that homophobia? Is that a reactionary conception? Dark? Fourthly, individual right, we say, in order to be exercised in a substantial and not formal manner, presupposes certain socially defined factors. I mean, it's not enough for a statement and a decision to leave it north on a society, but it needs a multifaceted support for this person. In fact, the decision says that it must be the result of mature thinking and the essential, individual choice in changing the gender identity and it needs to be based on the knowledge of a number of factors and consequences from this choice. This knowledge cannot be based on subjective experience. What's this? What theories are these? There's nothing, there's no objectivity, there's no society, there's no science? We're not talking about psychiatrics or stuff. These are in the sphere of fantasy, and others did it, not the ones who blame and I'll say that in any case you're acquitting them. So we say it's not solved automatically. She needs something else, too. He needs social structures, he needs money, he needs staff, he needs collectiveness. Does the bill say a word about it? Does he take a measure to support all these people? None, but none. And in this position, which I say it is deeply humane and scientifically processed, rather than confrontation - we have no problem - warfare, we have received slander, a distortion of the position of the JRC, particularly in the debate on the committees. This is where tones were lower yesterday - except for exceptions - more careful. And this shows the messages that came from us in relation to our positions. In fact, until yesterday, you have said the same thing to the new democrats and others in some, Goulag, psychiatric, etc. And even with vulgar anti-communism, which is based on evidence that does not exist. Well, let's see. Darkness - progress. The dilemma's back. Truly, let us tell you, then, that they are progressive, those who support these opinions and the others who are concerned with us, because others may be. So, the United States of America having such a bill ranks among the forces of human progress? The capitalist barbarism that crushes man, the middle ages we live today gets a certificate of progress from you with these bills? What's this? What divisions are these? Darkness is to come back - I will say it unattractively - in theories beyond humanity itself, that there is no objective truth. Well, let's see. Individual rights. He says the JRC doesn't recognize individual rights. Where did you get it written? What are you saying that the JRC does not recognise individual rights? What do we say? We say that they do not exercise the prerogative of society, but are linked to social rights. Isn't that what everyone says in the JRC's positions? So you have swallowed and adopted the strategic propaganda of the capitalist system and imperialism, which concerns individual rights and freedoms. You have adopted them, and that seems to be what you are doing. It's a different thing. And what ironic truth. How courageous it is for a government to appear as a left-wing government, to apply memorials, to crush the people, to turn it back years, to hunger, misery, poverty, to give simple help to capital, pluralism, to worship NATO, to murder peoples with millions of victims, to worship the United States of America and to show us with the flag of individual rights. And since you support them, do away with the terrorist law. Will you do it? Bring him in, if you disagree. You will not, because you will not be left by the European Union. What the system and the European Union allow you to do, you are bringing it forward and, in fact, you are being progressively presented. What are you going to do with the trade union law? Isn't that an individual right? He's coming. And it could be a distraction of the whole bill. Well, separating lines. What are the dividing lines and where do you put them today? I'm coming back to this. So, Malta, let's say, having your own bill, has adopted it, is it a progressive country? At the same time, it forbids abortion. Argentina's likewise. What are you going to set up for the people? Fake? PASOK did it before. The darkness and the light. Resuspend them on another side and, in fact, dangerous if a number of other things are combined. And it says the Prime Minister - he is an outspoken, we need to see this speech - that society is evolving. At one time, he says, it was considered given the exploitation of human beings. Today? There isn't. We have a class society. Isn't that what we got? That's what he said. At one time, he says, it was considered normal for workers to work sixteen hours. While today they are working for five hours because science, technology, has evolved. They work, they are modern slaves today. Has the essence of the capitalist system itself changed and societies evolve? Of course, science is evolving, a number of things are evolving, but class oppression, class exploitation, this barbarity in its majesty has increased even more. Because he also hampered the movement of retreat and fell the socialism in which you rushed to attack together. Did you say a word about the capitalist world what he did in relation to these issues all the previous years? Who spoke from you? You've all focused on socialism. Slander and we understand it. You get legality certificates for them too. Where's Karayannides. NATO seems to have done a good job for the internship. Attack on Goulag and anti-communism at the KIC? That it's inhumane, etc.Huh? With all the things we've been telling you? [[Noise in the Chamber]] What's our position? Where does he get these things? Why are you doing this? To justify your choices. So let's see what you said about socialism. And where did you get the evidence you said? We don't say everything was holy, but you can't make comparisons. This is historic acrobaticism and unscientific to compare today, 2017 with '20 and '30. You want to compare it? We should compare it. What happened to the capitalist world in the '20s, '30s and '70s? Lobottoms in the United States of America and much worse. What evidence do you guys have to talk so irresponsiblely about Goulag and that? Where did you get them from? CIA? Bring us a clue saying that so many were imprisoned, so many were exiled, so many did that because they were homosexuals. Or is it because paedophile crime was considered to be a crime, while in the Netherlands of the advanced European Union you are all supporting, it is very normal and legitimate, as is the livestock party, as is all that is happening in the rotting of the capitalist world, which has nothing to do with these people who have these problems. Will you tell me how you adopt them here? You have swallowed Katyn along with the golden ones and everyone else. A constructed, dirty case, unbelievable case written "Decision of the Soviet Union communist party to execute tens of thousands of officers". And there was no Soviet Union party, then the Bolshevik was called otherwise. That Yeltsin forgery you swallowed it. You've swallowed all the socialist propaganda. We do not say that everything was holy, that there were no problems in these areas too. Socialism was called upon to open new roads where there were no paths and proved its superiority. You know, because you are talking about the October Revolution - and I am ending, Mr President - the October Revolution was to overthrow capitalism and it was made by those who wanted to overthrow it, not by those who serve it and even support it and cultivate the feeling that capitalism can be better and more human. Well, they can't talk about the October Revolution.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Vassilis Leventis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u83	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the bill on which we will be invited to vote in a little while is presented by some as a humanitarian matter, namely that it solves problems which are of a small, but not of a nature. They say: 'You will not vote, since it is humanitarian?' It's like they say they're cruel people who won't vote for it. That remains as a conclusion. I think that such bills should be subject to a greater suffering of preconsent. A woman doesn't go to the hairdresser and she's just having a gut. These are serious issues that had to be discussed between parties in public consultation. The government as if something were afraid of, like something wicked to seek. He wants to pass it "let it go" as the people say. Any bills that go through this way will be cancelled by another House tomorrow. I declare myself as the Central Association and as Vassilis Leventis that to the extent that I have power - now I have so many MPs, tomorrow I may have three times - I will not support any government if this law is invalidated, because there was no preconsent. First of all, something which is not honest, the majority MPs speak in a disgraceful way about the Church, that he wants the Church to be involved, that he wants the Church to be legislated. The Church doesn't want to legislate. The Church wants you to respect its principles, its values. The Church was never involved in anything. Did the Church send a letter to tell him what to vote? She didn't send anyone. There are values, there are principles. One argument I heard yesterday from Members of SYRIZA was: "The Church" - says - "he also accepts the bandit. Christ accepts them all." But they're repenting. He does not accept them, if they persist in their sin. The Church accepts everyone if they declare repentance, unless some go to the Church mechanically, to take a vote or because they are Saint George or Saint Nicholas. The Church accepts everyone, after repenting, and homosexuality and transgenicity - what they call it - they regard them as sins. Another that Mrs Spiraki said yesterday when going out on a channel this morning is that it is 'persons trapped in a foreign body'. It's not a foreign body that God gave. God whoever body gives characterizes each individual. That's insane. It's a psychiatric illness what some people think. That's what I think. We will not legislate here as some seek. And if they get what they're asking for and give it to them, they won't have a problem? Tell me, Minister, one who's 15, sixteen, and we call him Christina from Christos, do you think he'll be convinced? Will this Christina convince her neighborhood? Is he gonna be able to have a smooth relationship? [[Protests from the wing of SYRIZA]] That's right. It's the life that refuses that. It's not that there's a mood of racism. Can you, a person who, until yesterday, called Christo, from today, call it Christina? You will always have some inhibitions within you. That's right. Life has it. I think that more trouble will arise if we give them this thing, because we give them something false paper, we give them something that goes against nature. God, when he gave them the characterization of "male" with chromosomes and the biological explanation he knows as a creator, determined that he was a man, male or female. Man's changing nature is a perverse thing. It's not nice, Mr. President of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u84	It's very nice!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u85	Is it nice? Enjoy them!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u86	It's very nice. We're happy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u87	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u88	You're welcome. Mr President, you are speaking in plenary!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u89	If you want to do it like this, to your side!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u90	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u91	Mr President, you are speaking in plenary!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u92	You got power with 35%. What are you? Dictators?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u93	Come on!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u94	Mr President, you speak in plenary, you do not have a debate!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u95	Ignore the Church? Ignore everyone? Do you know everything?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u96	Mr President, you are speaking in plenary. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u97	...Michael's a far-right man. We're democratic. We object because we want democracy and we also want a place for the Church. Because Papafless fought, not Tsipras! Papafless fought. Not Tsipras or Mitsotakis!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u98	But you were saying, when you were coming...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u99	Madam Colleague, please allow the President to speak. Whatever he wants to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u100	For Mrs Spyraki to say that they are "closed in the foreign body" that they have. Listen to an explanation! They're trapped in the foreign body they have. They did so in some countries of Europe, he says. Listen, gentlemen, are we Greeks or are we franchises? If we are to copy everything in Europe, let's get out of here and get a European chief to rule us. I, from Europe, take her well, the organization of the state, her production machine, her pensions, her wages...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u101	To legislate independently...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u102	That's what I get from Europe, I don't get values. Greece had to give values to Europe, not take. Europe had to take values and morals from Greece rather than backwards. When the Renaissance took place after the fall of Byzantium, a defeated country, Byzantium, conquered Europe, defeated Europe, did not go to copy the obsolete customs. The meaning of Greece's entry into Europe you know how much I defended it, as well as our euro stay. The only party that defended these two things is the Centro Association, because the New Democracy did "Zapopea", SYRIZA was shaking memos, etc. The only party that firmly believes in Europe is the Centro Association. In Europe, however, we have the right to say 'no' to something. If we are to submit to the fullest, then I do not understand what kind of progress it is that has been made in joining Europe? I love Europe, but by keeping the Greek values, the customs. It's a Orthodox state, Greece. Papafless fought, neither did Tsipras nor Mitsotakis fight. Papafless fought to be here and take your wages. To explain.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u103	What historical stunts are these?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u104	And as to what you say that the Church wants to be involved in politics and that the Church wants to legislate, say it again: nothing the Church wants. He wants respect if you're Orthodox. If you go to church mechanically for voting, it will come as a conclusion if you are completely ignoring her views. Have you asked the Church before you draw up the bill? Is the Church so insignificant that this Hall can ignore its views?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u105	We're not Iran. We have a democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u106	Listen, I want to say something else. All the channels we're sending out, we're making five words. Right channels get words that we're supposed to be with New Democracy. The left channels - not excluded and the ERT - put that in favour of SYRIZA. They don't transmit the announcements and they're not big, they're three series, but they're cut off, so they'll make the point. That is why I propose in this Chamber that the parties' announcements be forwarded to the Parliament's channel. The channel of the House is not to pass on the lady and the lady. At least one or two hours each day to transmit the parties' announcements, because neither "ANT 1", nor "SKAI" nor ERT do not transmit the Centrouns' announcements. Where are we going to get in touch with the people? The channel of Parliament must spend a couple of hours on the announcements of all parties, otherwise close it. If it's just passing through the Halloween. The communiqué of each party on a daily basis for the people to know what the Centro Union's position on gender change is, what the position is for the Turkish Union of Xanthi, for one thing for the other. He doesn't know. Go out and check it out. You, SYRIZA and New Democracy, set up a new two-compartment and eat in the news releases 90% of the year. You don't have a problem, but the younger parties have a problem. I was visited by Mrs Aagza and Mr Kapakos on some of the issues of the EDEAP, and she says: 'Do you have any problem?' And I say that we have the following problem, we send out a communication and they only put three words in, you have not given up what we want to say. And Mr Kapakos said that for his day - he was obviously in the ERT - there was an algorithm, which, based on the power of the parties, should have the parties at that time. It has also stopped being observed. Something good that had begun in ERT has been stopped and it has been observed, Mr. Voutsi. The algorithm has stopped, that is, according to the power of the party, some elementary time in the media. I'm talking to you about democracy issues. I'll tell you two adventures that I felt. I went to see about the oil spill in Piraeus. Mr. Kurublis was with me. Going out to the port out there, I said I'd ask for a lifting of the services that the certificates of airworthiness give, because I think they all have to be in a circle of corruption, first. Secondly, I have said that I am requesting a plenary sitting because I consider the issue of oil pollution to be a major issue. The Minister told me that he was doing the human thing, but the human being is not enough. What did they do? They only put it that the Minister is doing the man's best and presented me as supporting Mr. Kurubli. They faked my statement. At "SKAI" yesterday, on Sunday, I said that when I vote in the House, I want to be able to convince my wife and my neighbor. This is Leventis. I am a man I want to go to the cafeteria and to be able to explain why today I will vote 'no', because tomorrow I will vote 'yes'. I want to always be among the people and explain my vote. And they wrote: "Leventis is ordered by his wife what will vote." To understand what disgrace is going on in the field of journalism! Nothing else. And I'm talking about the area of your friendly journalism - notice this - in the area of your best friend - good word I use - journalism. We have asked for an independent authority for polling. Before announcing "SKAI" the result of a survey, the independent authority will take - whether the polls are, or the phones are - the findings will all be checked, and then permission will be given to "SKAI", "MEGA" to "IT 1" to take out the announcements in the credibility of this sector. Mr. Tsipras twice promised me, personally. But it seems to suit him, because he thinks that even now SYRIZA will want to come again tomorrow with either the same Chief or someone else. Therefore, the interests of both parties, New Democracy and SYRIZA, are to maintain a chaos. Behind chaos, they can get what they want in polling. For the polls that are presented to us outside the House, I tell them that in September 2015 in the Central Association they also gave 2% to Lafasan 6.5%. Those who do this in polls will make them rip their degrees, which I doubt they have. I'm asking something else. Given the opposition of the Church - because it totally opposes what you are going to vote on today - the President of the Republic - who, when he entered the Pan-Orthodox Synod in Heraklion before the Patriarch - will sign it? And how will he see the Patriarch? We have a Church both at the corner that a consumer association can speak from the Church. That's where we got it. And we think it's a mix-up. So can the President of the Republic kneel by believing in orthodoxy and, on the other hand, this Chamber completely ignores the will of the Church? That's your thing. You've done as you think. Next Monday in Thessaloniki I'll talk to the Hotel "Capsis" at 19.00 hours an hour, on the 16th of the month. And I say it here because the channels don't broadcast it. To be forced by a party leader, Mr. Voutsi, to state here the day of speaking in Thessaloniki, you realize how much democracy we have. That's all. Next Monday, 16 of the month, 19.00" in the afternoon at Capsis Hotel in Thessaloniki, we will talk. We will directly say that this country is entering an anomaly. For us, Mr. Tsipras makes everything taka, without consultation. It promotes the interests of an insignificant group of people. And what are they? I think it's a mental illness what they have.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u107	What are these now? Are people sick? Are you telling them psychopaths?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u108	That's my opinion. You guys say they're the best and put them in candidates. Do what you think. You have a right. I might as well. But I'm saying. I am in favour of giving them pensions, work, tighten up the institutional framework if someone does them bowling, do all that, support them, but do not give them that. Because Greece must not copy anything from Europe. He must have defenses. That is how I entered Europe, and that is how I support it as a Leventis. I will take the good news, i.e. to stop the rumbles, the mess, the customer relationships, the stealing, the cheating, those to stop them, to build a state, but, for moral values, I do not copy from any Europe. Greece teaches Europe moral values. Because you've got it taken by some people that after strangers did it, we should do it. And if strangers want to get undone, we'll be released to Athens undisturbed, because it's the will of the strangers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u109	Mr President, finish. Time is pushing us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u110	Time is pushing you to go do the work you have. Mr Mitsotakis in his speech in Nice - to say two words for Mr Mitsotakis - said that 'The New Democracy is in favour of businessmen and not those who are in Switzerland with money, which is in the Aegean.' Who made them, Mr. Mitsotakis, with chickens and money? Aren't they your generations, too? The corrupt regime of the last fifty years has not made any people with money in Switzerland and less in the Aegean? It's time to tell us that we did them, the Centro Association, with a year we're in this House. So Mr. Mitsotakis messed with the New Republic of Mr. Karamanlis, his father before? If the political system has raised tax-frees and frauds, it is the political system in which you have had a large share of time, gentlemen of the New Democracy. Because you often talk like he's the other fool and believe what you're saying. This phrase by Mrs Spyraki that these transgenders are trapped in a foreign body is a sin. You should know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u111	Mr President, please conclude. We've been through twenty minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u112	One more minute, Mr President. Seraphim did not mean he did not accept all of them in the Church, but repentants, not by remaining beasts. Beast cannot accept you from the Church. Hello.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u113	Thank you. The President of Potamio, Mr Theodorakis, is next, but Mr Kegeroglou, as Secretary of the Group of the European Democratic Alliance, wants to make a statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u114	Mr President, I would also like to thank you and the President of the River for the minute I asked to speak. I will immediately get to the contents of the statement. It is well known that at the Conference of Presidents, when the programme was changed for the days of discussion of the bill, I disagreed for certain reasons. Based on the original programming of the House, we have made our programming for the institutional meetings, such as for the Central Council of the Democratic Partnership, and for tours. You know we're in elections. In this sense, there will be a letter with the intention of voting, where we will clearly support the collective decision we have taken as a Democratic Incorporation. Thanks for giving me the right to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u115	Mr. Theodorakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u116	Ladies and gentlemen, years ago I had made a show entitled "The Angelica that became Angel". It was the story of a boy born a girl. To be a man, he should have chromosomes of CF. To be a woman, she should have chromosomes XX. But Angelica was born with chromosomes of XXX and she was a woman as much as she was a man. The ancient Greeks had found a very sweet word for this child: Ermaphrodite. Creation, i.e. Hermes and Venus. But life is not so poetic. I watched the life of the angel for days. I talked to his friends, talked to his parents, Mr. Panagiotis, a carpenter, and Mrs. Aristeas, housewife, because he had three children to feed. And in a big corner of Drapetson's small apartment, all the saints were gathered, because Mrs. Aristeas in the three moves she made, one was the cross. Do you know the confession of the mother, but also of all the friends and relatives of the angel? "Before the Angel we didn't know." I would therefore like to see, today, that we are discussing the legal recognition of gender, that we do not think of personal provisions and statistics. To think about the lives of certain people who live between us, no matter how many people in here don't want to see them. Are they minority? Obviously they are minority groups. There may also be minority groups in the minority groups. This, however, is an opportunity to recall that the basic value of democracy, the most basic value of democracy, is the defence and defence of minority rights. All research in both Greece and abroad shows that the group of citizens identified as trains is humiliated, stigmatized, marginalized. We have a duty to safeguard their rights. Gender change, like changing the registered gender, is not a hobbyist choice, as some present it. It's not a whim. It's not something anyone does because it's fashionable this year and the next year it's not and they'll get it back. It's an adventure that often has a lot of pain in it. It is a one-way for the vast majority of these people. I read and listen to these days, words and titles, such as "Shoto and Gomorrah, the absolute level in the House", "Babis becomes Joula with a statement in the JEP", "Young people fighting the nation". Instead of trying to figure out exactly what we are legislating, what modern perceptions are attacking, we have entered the trenches and we are fighting arguments with slogans. I would like here to say a few words about the attitude of certain extremists of the Church, the hierarchy, who one day expose the Golden Dawn and the other day attack politicians who do not defend, tactically, the holy and loyal of the country, as they consider them. Because for me too, and I hope for many of you in here, the sacred and loyal things of the country are not to have children and scoundrels. Love and solidarity for fellow humans are the basis of Christian teachings. The center is man, not prejudice, stereotypes and fear that some hierarchs are trying to create in Greek society. We must all realise that there are no children of a lower god. The society needs to know who is concerned with today's bill. Biological and psychological gender coincidence is not always given to everyone. There are people today in our country who cannot study, find jobs, find houses, people who suffer bowling, people who live only in a frame of hatred and receive only hatred. The bill, therefore, allows these citizens to change their registered gender so that their identity is in line with what they eventually are, without having to do surgery. The legal recognition of gender change was only possible until recently by surgery which the United Nations, when forced, characterises torture and calls on the United Nations to abolish all the provisions that they consider necessary for the change of identity to be necessary. There is, ladies and gentlemen, a lot of discussion about when to give this possibility. Only in adult people, some say. But this conflict, if we accept that there is adult people, the male and female collision, does not suddenly appear in your eighteenths. Why should a child pass through, is his opponent, his school years with a double identity, while parents and doctors can testify to what is his real, dominant choice? But I accept that this debate is not about the balconies. It is a debate that needs to be held with politicians and scientists together, with specialized scientists, whose views and this time they have been sidelined because extremist voices have taken their place. What do the psychiatrists say, "Egyptio" and the other public hospitals? ‘Taking up gender discomfort is a modern scientific problem and correcting the identity card facilitates the social integration of the individual.’; That's the psychiatrists' point of view. I could applaud you here for a number of rulings by Greek and European courts. After all, you will be informed that on Thursday the Council of Europe will also ask for a vacant entry to documents for innersex citizens, for those not identified by the so far registration of male and female. We have tabled an amendment to this effect since now accept the recommendation of the Council of Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, behind all these supposed critics, supposedly absurd, these are supposed to be only natural stories that have always existed in our cities and villages, just today they are more easily expressed in public. Besides, there are many judicial decisions that did not consider the surgery necessary to change the registered sex, and the judges are content in many cases in opinions or in what they saw before them, that is, a man who asked to recognize him what he is and not what he writes a document. In fact, you will know that the Athens Peace Court in its recent decision ruled that surgical gender change as an essential condition for changing identity violates the European Convention on Human Rights. The Greek judge, in his honor, preceded the Greek legislature. So let us do our duty too. Let us legislate without fear, without hiding and looking at the polls. I would like to reply, however, ladies and gentlemen, to a slogan made by many members of the opposition. They say, "Let us not vote for anything that SYRIZA and ANEL do not vote on." There is one problem, ladies and gentlemen. Why would people vote for us if we were to vote for what the Annells are voting for? [[Applause from the river wing]] So let me make it clear what our position is today and yesterday and tomorrow. When the country is in danger, as in the summer of 2015, and when we talk about human rights, as today, we are not hiding. We are voting for what the patriotic duty requires in the case of the country's major problems and what our consciences say about the issue of human rights, without micro-party calculations, without bazaars. We are not and will not follow the logic of the SYRIZA - ANEL past. We do not want to be what we always despised, that is, politicians who believe that the purpose each time justifies the means. The new progressive party, which, as you know, we are trying to create at this time, the new progressive party that the country needs, that will do, will be present both in Parliament and in society and in the movements. In other words, it will not close its eyes in reality, in evolution, in logic, in rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Mr President. The President of the New Democracy, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, we are here today on a case that is above all human beings. We are here because we all agree that there are no children of a lower God. We are here to protect in the best possible way a human right, but also to recognise a social reality, as many European countries have done before us. The question of legal recognition of gender identity is a self-evident necessity in a modern rule of law. It recommends a duplication of the principle embodied in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights: "All men are born free and equal to dignity and rights." The progressive parade, of which I have the honour of leading, has shown in practice its sensitivity to human rights. I would remind you that it was the New Democracy which has been the first to regulate the possibility of correcting the registered gender already in 1976, with Law 344, Article 14, if I am not mistaken, for changing the urban situation. It was Constantine Karamanlis then very much in front of his time and at European level. We are the party that, with constant legislative intervention, has shaped a framework of equal freedom for all people, regardless of sexual orientation, in particular an important law that we passed in 2005, Law 3304, on the application of equal treatment regardless of racial, ethnic, religious or other beliefs, disability, age or sexual orientation. The law of the New Democracy was also him. So, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, it is at least comical to come to this Chamber and give us lessons of liberalism, with Mr Tsipras, who was speaking yesterday in front of the vacant seats of the group's parliamentary group. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] These flaws to tell ANELs, your government partner, or rather your partner, in this foreigner triumph you have created and pretended for two years that it is a homogeneous government. Although I see it, Minister, you have not succeeded in convincing them all, I will very much look forward to the result of the roll-call vote on Article 3, to see if there is a blunt parliamentary majority in the Greek Parliament in the end! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It would be easy for me to stay on this issue alone, because it is sufficiently important. I will not do so, because the core of the issue that we are discussing today is extremely important and let it be obvious to everyone that you brought a bill to the House shortly before the budget in a desperate attempt to hide your failure, your universal failure, in all areas. Some claim that the issue of gender identity should not be regulated because it concerns very few of our fellow citizens. They're wrong. This approach is wrong. An open democratic state must legislate and care for everyone and protect above all those who feel and are a minority. I said this from the outset: there are no children of a lower God, and for us there are no citizens of a second class, citizens with reduced rights. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] In the New Democracy, we are not concerned about whether this group is numerically small. It is indifferent to us if it is one or one million, and that is why individual rights express the cornerstone of every liberal party. Don't get confused. I'm not talking about you. I will now give you a self-evident lesson in democracy. Contrary to what you have always been an ambassador, a permanent and self-evident claim by the New Democracy, already from its establishment, the state must protect the right of minority. I am not only talking about the legalisation of any minority opinion, which we first imposed, I am talking about the self-evident rights that every modern society must guarantee to every citizen, even if he feels the majority as tyrannical to him. I personally want to believe, looking to all the seats of Parliament, that there is no one in this Chamber who does not recognise the need to modernise the framework for the legal recognition of gender. The European Court of Human Rights has made this necessary. But the progress of societies and the acceptance, which we must show against diversity, has also made it compulsory itself. All European countries have made moves in this direction for years. However, I do not wish today to focus solely on legal provisions and self-evident respect for individual rights, which is the foundation of our legal culture. I repeat that, above all, we are talking today about an extremely sensitive issue. It is deeply concerned by some of our fellow people, and it does not mean leaving people who are struggling today, often from an early age, with a situation which is particularly difficult for themselves and their families. The state must give these fellow citizens the opportunity to manage their lives as they think they do. Give them the right to self-determination, providing significant relief to themselves and to their families, and at the same time abolishing anachronistic provisions, such as, for example, the change in gender that requires surgery, which cannot be accepted in any modern society. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Incidentally, I note - and Mr Theodorakis mentioned it - that this provision is fortunately already being circumvented by the Greek courts. However, I would also like to ask a question to those who have reacted to today's debate, even in the irresponsible way that Mr Tsipras's government has provoked. Honestly, I wonder what those who dogmatically reject any debate on this matter will win. Will there cease to be transgender people? Will there be families facing these issues? Will there be children undergoing bowling at school? Will there be people who feel imprisoned inside their own body? Those who refuse to discuss this matter simply flee. I therefore believe that if the government were to explain the whole matter calmly, what the state has to do, what the state has to change, who is concerned, the majority of the Greeks would not just consent, but would support this institutional change without reservation. A change that would actually give some of our fellow humans our hidden lives again. Instead of moving in this direction, however, instead of consulting all parties, the institutions of Greek society, instead of responsiblely informing public opinion, instead of asking the scientific community's opinion, the government has once again chosen communication management, playing a political game with some players, while it should take very carefully and well thought out steps. We have to take a decision today on a bill which is handy and, in our view, is irresponsible. The government - I am sincerely sorry to say this - is seeking to legislate again, without seeking the necessary consensus, indifferent to the views of the scientific community and, above all, seeking to provoke the Church of Greece to demonstrate its alleged progress. The government recommended, in the statement by the Minister, Mr. Kontonis, a bill even more advanced than those of the rest of the European Union. It seems that Mr. Tsipras has been desperately looking for a paradoxical alibi for the policy of wild austerity which he has for no reason imposed on Greek citizens for two and a half years. Believe me, all Greeks have understood what your real motive is. You have irresponsibly brought a sensitive issue, to get away from your deadlocks, and I urge you to understand it, Minister, even now. Adopt our own proposal for the bill, a bill which goes to regulate a completely wrong issue. Because it's obvious that maybe some people don't understand what I mean, I'll explain it to you in simple words. So let's go see some, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, the real facts. Gender identity is internationally and undeniably a matter of self-determination and includes the personal feeling that transgenders have for their own body. At the same time, however, we cannot ignore the fact that the international scientific community recognises the so-called gender discomfort. The World Health Organisation does the same. That is why even the European Court of Human Rights in its recent decision accepts that some form of mental diagnosis may be among the conditions for legal recognition of the gender of transgenders. Watch out. From the forty-three countries of the Council of Europe - I have the relevant map here - on the thirty-eight - that is to say, almost all - the procedure requires - that there should be some kind of medical diagnosis as an inextricable term.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u119	Possibility gives.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u120	Wait a minute! A prerequisite. Countries such as Sweden, France, Belgium, Spain, Portugal, and almost all the advanced countries have come to the conclusion that the issue we are discussing today is not just a question of human rights, Minister, as your foreign government is trying in a false way to present it, but, yes, it has - and, Mr Theodorakis - an undeniable medical dimension. I'm filing the relevant quote for the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above-mentioned map, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Legal correction of the registered gender is a single stage, in a long and painful process, which at all its stages - let us not fool ourselves - requires substantial psychological support. For the New Democracy, the procedure for correcting the registered gender is not and must not be an instant act or a contract that can be drafted by a simple statement. Obviously they must respect the choice of the person and guarantee conditions of absolute confidentiality. However, it must at the same time guarantee the consciousness of the will of the person concerned, provide the necessary support and take into account any impact on third persons directly associated with the applicant. First of all, in our view, to initiate this procedure, the person concerned must be an adult. Such a major decision of life requires maturity, which only age can ensure. In our view, it is wrong, it is inconceivable, that at 15 years of age one cannot in law drink alcohol or drive a dicyclo, but allow him to make such a decision in life as changing the identity of a sex. Nor can it be allowed to allow a permanent and unlimited possibility of a gender change. This possibility should be provided once and for that reason at an age ensuring maturity in the decision-making process. But the most important thing for us is another. It is not possible, Minister, to make this decision by the person concerned, without having ensured some kind of specialised medical opinion and, above all, to care, to ensure that the choice of the person is conscientious, that the person has received all the necessary information on the effects of this decision and the correction does not result in negative consequences for minor children, if any. The completely irresponsible proposal you have tabled does not provide for anything in this direction. You overlook, Minister, and gentlemen of the government majority, that for many years there has been an excellent support structure, which handles the issues of our transgender citizens with absolute scientific competence, devotion and trust. That is the structure we propose to strengthen it even more. We consider it necessary to consult someone in order to proceed with the legal ratification of a decision accompanying them for a lifetime. This process, Minister, shows you the necessity of the entire scientific community. You choose not to listen to it and do it, because you are dealing with this issue irresponsiblely. Mr. Theodorakis, read a quote from an article, which wrote three important psychiatrists, with a great deal of experience on this subject. Only you read a quote of him. Let me read the whole paragraph you have referred to. "The treatment of gender discomfort", writes the three psychiatrists, one of whom is Mr. Papageorgiou, Director of the First Psychiatric Clinic of the "Egyptio", "is a modern scientific problem and is often considered to be of benefit when the medical control is promoted and then legal recognition in the phase necessary to better adapt the person. In several cases," the experts say - I do not say it, but the experts who handle these cases - 'he needs careful exclusion of situations that do not fall under gender discomfort and sometimes require', take note,'multiannual regular monitoring, living in the role of the desired sex, before irreversible decisions are taken'. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above article, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] That's what experts tell us. I have come to the trouble of speaking with one of them, to get better informed about the substance of the problem, which I very much doubt if you or the Prime Minister have done. So I was told a story about a new child who found him and asked him to plead for a gender change because he went up to the Hypothet and told him by an alien. Is it a true story, Minister, and you're telling me that it's progressive to be indifferent to the possibility of a eighteen-year-old child making such a decision without a medical safety test? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] This is a true story, Minister. [[Laughers from the wing of SYRIZA]] Are you laughing? You think this is funny? I'm really sorry!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u121	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u122	I am sorry, indeed, because with your bill this man, yes, can make a gender change and find this problem before him for a lifetime. They can make a gender change without these people being fully aware of the consequences such a decision can cause their entire lives. Mr Tsipras came to us yesterday just 1/3 of the Group's parliamentary group to give us a lecture on liberalism, but on all the essential issues I mentioned, he did not say a word. Perhaps his accounting officer neglected it, perhaps he does not know the subject in depth, perhaps he is not really interested in these people. I think the only thing you care about - and that's why you rushed to bring this bill to this juncture - is to have another left-wing show, while you exercise power in the most conservative, the most anachronistic way. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I would therefore ask you, Minister, to stand up to the responsibility of your capacity and to realise that the only responsible proposal for such a sensitive issue is the one we have submitted to you. I'm tabling it once again in the Minutes of the House. I give you the opportunity today to vote together. If you do not do so, you will bear full responsibility. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which you are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The New Democracy, for reasons you understand and perceive and all the citizens who bothered to attend today's debate, will not vote for the irresponsible bill of your government. When we become a government, we will vote for our own proposal for a law on how we understand how this case is handled. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] There's a difference. You do not hesitate to use even transgender people to escape the deadlocks in which you have placed the country. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We have our own view of how we should support them, and that is what we say in our proposal, if you bother to read it, to follow the path they have chosen, even though it is difficult. However, since we are sure that they have made their decision aware and not unconsciously and irresponsibly, that is, as you rule this place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr. Mitsotakis. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to inform you of the development of the debate because it is time to suffocate. We have all agreed that the procedure expires at 13.00 p.m. and that at 13.15 p.m. we shall start the vote. It follows an intervention from the Minister, who has requested the floor for seven minutes. They follow, to the extent that we can compose time, a few minutes of speeches by the rapporteurs of three minutes. It can't be any more. After Mr...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u124	Just three minutes, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u125	Mr President, we are not saying that it is 15 minutes, but not three. We also have a question about the articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u126	What should we do? Do you want to make another kind of consultation and go by night, so we can talk as much as we want? Let's close the procedure at 13.00 p.m. -13.15' time was conciliation until now, please. He won't do whatever the Bureau wants. It's not my decision. The decision is yours, that we'll close the procedure at noon. If you want to change it, change it, but compress the time can't be. How's it going to happen? Mr Prussakis, you have asked for the floor for three minutes. You will speak before the rapporteurs, although you are off-listed, because we understand the subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u127	Mr President, I would like the floor for seven, eight minutes, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u128	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Mr President. The speech of the President of the New Democracy was preceded. We expected something essential to hear about his refusal, about the refusal of the New Democracy, to vote at least at the beginning of the bill, which he said deals with individual rights, but he does not vote on it, that he is trying to give a solution, but he is not voting on it. The reason for all this was that it is a rough legislative work of the government. First of all, let us make it clear that, since the government took over, it has set up a legislative committee with the participation of all the specialists involved, handed over the plan, put into consultation since May and came to Parliament for a vote. Where, then, is the quick and spurious vote? On the contrary, New Democracy, which has been ruling this place for decades and has not brought any bills - obviously, then it did not know about individual rights, it did not know about these invisible people - and today it has come to us critically and to tell us, not even too much, that this is for electoral reasons, when it has changed its attitude and when it came to tell us here today that it does not vote a bill that gives way to a great category of our fellow people, a minority but satisfactory number, which, in the final analysis, has been on the margin for so many years. Since, from the last committee meeting to the plenary session, the New Democracy had the inspiration to draw up a draft law, it obviously destroyed it in the leg and obviously has these flaws and weaknesses. We all understand why this happened. It was done so as not to pass the bill brought by the government into the first place and to solve the problem. Because the New Democracy has an allergy to individual rights. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Is it not accidental that the Chief of New Democracy was speaking for twenty minutes and what examples did he have to tell us? The '76 law of Constantine Karamanlis, and another one of 2005. That was, ladies and gentlemen, the legislative intervention of a party which has been changing to the government since 1974. Two pieces of legislation. Bravo! Congratulations! Spend another forty years to bring two more. But where we have something to say there is this: the President of the New Democracy says that he should definitely empower a medical judgement for one of our fellow citizens who wants to make the transfer. If he asks for it as a prerequisite, the law provides it for the ages of 15 to 17. Why doesn't he vote for it? It says 'Oh, there I am not voting for it, because it has to be an adult to make such decisions'. But that's what the bill says, that the adult has his will, expresses it, and, under the conditions laid down in the law, the court ruling is given. So here, what do we have? We put the scientific community, as the bill puts it, for the fifteen to seventeen years, but where it is put in place, the New Democracy does not vote for it, because - he says - we do not accept that, and that should only be a condition for adults. But if it is only for adults, why exclude the opinion of the medical community and all relevant scientists from 15 to 17 years of age? You are in complete contrast with what you are proposing. You said the other one, which goes beyond every limit and proves you haven't read the law either. The President of the New Democracy says that there should be protection for minors. But here, the law says something else: there's a ban on those who are married. So this to a much greater extent outweighs the anguish of the New Democracy. You know very well that for this arrangement there has been criticism in this article by members of the LGBTK community. So, ladies and gentlemen, it is very easy to come to Parliament's Chamber to invoke experts and, when they are consulted as a decisive condition for a decision to be taken to say 'no, there we do not accept it, there we go to adulthood'. Adultation, however, has the very foundation of this, that everyone can decide for themselves without the mediation of third parties. Where you don't need it and where the bill gives it, you say 'we don't need it, we won't take it'. Hypocrisy! Hypocrisy and cheap little-party speech, just to find yourself in correspondence with some extreme conservative circles, which at present have faded out against the regulation that concerns our fellow humans. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not deal with what has been said. But I want to mention something. There were extremist voices on the part of the Church about exclusion from the congregations of MPs who will vote and others. I do not know what the metropolitan in question will do - and I hope that his statements have been misled - with the Greek judges who had been ahead of the law. Is he gonna close the church door to them too? What will it do with the whole society, which at last wants a regulation on these issues, because it is the duty of the state and the duty of any democratically thinking person to face up to his fellowman with a sense of solidarity and solidarity? [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I'm done, Minister, with this. The representative of the Golden Dawn ended his speech by saying that this party is fighting for Christ's faith in saint and country's freedom. For Christ's sake, did you kill the Bridge? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] If we don't go for Christ's faith in the holy one, for the Bridge...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u130	You're interfering with justice...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u131	Liar, symptom!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u132	For Christ's faith are you chasing the immigrants and there are irrevocable condemnations of the Greek courts?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u133	Liar...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u134	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u135	Is this about Christ's faith the holy one? So tell us and not involve religion or Christianity with your athletes and your murderous action!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u136	Liar, hypocrite, Bolshevik!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u137	Because Christianity is the religion of love and you are the political party of hatred and intolerance!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u138	Liar, hypocrite!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u139	Mr President, please sit down and quiet, so that we can move forward.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u140	Mr President, I want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u141	What do you want, Mr. Rabbit?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u142	I want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u143	What for?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u144	Why do we want the floor? Let's talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u145	What can you talk about? How can you talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u146	He addressed us and we need to respond.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u147	You want to answer that. Don't tell me how! I'm asking what you want!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u148	Let us respond, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u149	Do you realize we're in a process? If there was a personal issue involving a facial attack, I would give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u150	He's a Minister of Justice. (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u151	Mr President, you have the responsibility of your party. Please help the Bureau very much. We're at the end of the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u152	Mr President, he is a Minister of Justice and makes a judicial decision!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u153	Mr President, I am so sorry. Would you like me to give you the floor for a minute to give you an answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u154	Of course!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u155	But please, very much help the process in the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u156	The Minister of Justice made another raw intervention in justice. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] You say "stop"?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u157	That will not end, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u158	Shut up, ribbons!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u159	After his intervention to immediately clean up the decision on Herianna, which wasn't your job. Why was it your job to clean up the decision immediately? Is this for the poor man convicted? Oh, no. It's for your comrades! You protect terrorists and criminals. Don't talk about criminals!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u160	Mr President, for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u161	But didn't your President speak? Excuse me very much, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u162	I've asked for the floor anyway!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u163	But your president spoke. He gave an answer. He made a comment. Please, too!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u164	Check out the directory. I've asked for the floor anyway. I'm a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u165	I know. We just had an agreement before we could close the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u166	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u167	Please. Let me handle the time. We agreed that special speakers and rapporteurs should speak with a few minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u168	Our special speaker won't talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u169	That's all. This will also be done with Mr. Lazarides from the Independent Greeks. That's why I'm telling you to be quiet about getting in touch with us. Good. Before we proceed to the procedure with the rapporteurs, Mr Poutsikos has asked for the floor. Mr Prussakis, I repeat something I have told you with all due respect. You've been out of list. Handle time accurately because it's too late. Please, too! Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u170	Mr President, thank you very much. Minister, I will not refer to the law that is being discussed today. My colleagues in the New Democracy have already referred to thoroughly and documented and, indeed, they have tabled a relevant law. You withdrew this amendment on 20 September under pressure of our own. With regard to the amendment of Rule 758 of the Code of Civil Procedure, you raised the question of the "Turkish Union of Xanthi" and brought it back yesterday on the road that the rapporteur of Nea Panayotopoulos had indicated to you in his speech to plenary. I hope that you will be a good and faithful replicator and, indeed, with the last proposal that will shortly be submitted to you, an amendment which is clearly more legally documented on this issue than the previous one, but without avoiding any misappropriation of this case, as your colleague, Mrs Irene Kasimatis, supported. In 1927 the Court of First Instance of Xanthi accepted the application for the establishment of the association called "The House of Turkish Youth Xanthi", which was renamed 1936 to "Turkish Union of Xanthi". In 1983 and 1984, however, the Court of First Instance of Xanthi accepted the two applications of the local prefecture as the mandate of the Greek State to ban the term 'Turkish' and to dismantle the club, as its members were active and at risk for the public security and order of the region and that its operation was in complete contrast with the Treaty of Lausanne. The courts invoked the Treaty of Lausanne, because it explicitly recognises a religious and not a national minority and above all the association illegally sought to spread the idea of a Turkish minority and thus serve the interests of the neighbouring country. In the decision to dismantle this association, the case came before the European Court of Human Rights following an appeal against the Hellenic Republic. Greece was convicted of an infringement of Article 11 and 14 of the European Convention on Human Rights. Marios Ice in the Greek case law that the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights are not binding on Greece rejected the request of the "Turkish Union of Xanthi". Next, the European Court of Human Rights has notified three other related actions, and thus Greece, with a notification it received, is retrieved because it allegedly disregarded the three judgments by the European Court of Human Rights for the dissolution of a number of similar associations. Minister, the problem is maximum. It is that the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights are sterile with political and diplomatic characteristics, which are useful tools for all of us. These must be used, as you must, as a government. It does not take into account the national peculiarities, which have such issues, particularly at a time when aggressive rhetoric is articulated, both from the side of the neighbouring state and from the side of the other government officials. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You have unreasonably opened such a serious matter with your previous amendment and fortunately after pressure from the New Democracy and, through our rapporteur, Mr Nicholas Panagiotopoulos, you have gathered it and I believe that you will shortly accept his final proposal. However, the essence is whether we should remember Thrace when we are being indicted by international organisations for such cases. When will the Turkish consulate play a serious role in the wider region, and even without complying with the 1963 International Treaty of Vienna, which provides for consular relations and activities, as described?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u171	Mr. Purchass, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u172	I'm closing, Mr. President. I would like here to point out that the Greek Muslims of Thrace are in their large majority peaceful, hardworking and prosperous. They do not cause problems, apart from a percentage, which should also be monitored. In the early 1990s...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u173	Mr. Colleague, you're not helping me. We started with the decade and we won't make any sense.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u174	Ladies and gentlemen, in closing, I would like us all to contribute to the extent to which we are responsible. In 1990, by a decision of the Government of Constantine Mitsotakis, the intergroup of the Parliament, which examined all the issues facing the extreme region, came up with a set of policies, and all these policies were implemented by the former and subsequent governments.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u175	Mr. Comrade, you're in six minutes. You can't go on! Thank you so much!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u176	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u177	Ladies and gentlemen, special speakers and rapporteurs will follow for a three-minute period. I'll be strict in time, because otherwise it won't come out. Thank you very much. Mrs. Cavadia has the floor first.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u178	Mr President, I asked for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u179	Mr Lazaridis, I will give you the floor at the time your party's special speaker, that is, in your turn.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u180	Ladies and gentlemen, what we have not heard, not only these two days, but also the previous ones in the committees. We've even learned today about aliens! I imagine Mr Mitsotakis did not share this experience with the representatives of the LGBTKI community, with whom he met and was photographed some time ago. Let it be! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Some of what has been heard were just homophobic deliriums, misannouncements against the different, unregulated lies, for which a simple reading of the bill is sufficient, to prove the fun and perforated. For all this, it wouldn't be really worth someone to take and some reason for the second time. However, there were other attacks on the bill, attacks that were launched by a allegedly responsible starting point, attacks, which unfortunately converged different political areas. So we have heard that it is not enough for a person to experience his everyday life, that personal sense of body is not enough, that self-determination is an inadequate condition for a person to decide on the identity of his gender. They have to - they have said - and the scientific opinion of the experts. Acknowledging and demonstrating that science is not, has never been, and will never be, neutral and transcendentally objective, without, of course, meaning that in such sensitive issues, the scientific community should not exist or participate. Just the opposite. But, ladies and gentlemen of Officerial Response, it is not the lack of scientific advice that prevents you from voting in favour of the bill. New Democracy had to find a pretext to diversify itself. It wasn't easy for them to find anything else to say without trimming everything that has been made as a liberal face of the party. They were unable to vote, risking breaking their ties with audiences and nozzles of the right-hand space. Besides, the party's top executives are hollow with these audiences. They had not proposed anything to the committees. They've now made a suggestion. Fortunately they didn't bring a proposal like this when it was government, because judging by what this proposal says, we had to be afraid of the worst. However, in addition to the legal arguments, ladies and gentlemen, for which other colleagues are special, there are the arguments put forward by life itself. And I would like you to give me one more minute, Mr President. Why can he claim to be unaware of despair, suffocation, irony, harassment, the malicious reason for transgenders in their environment and especially in the school environment? How to close the eyes to what LGBTK members are denounced by their personal experiences? How can one close the ears when the parents of transgender and mesophile teenagers speak, as did the Committee of Parliament? How can one pretend indifferent when giving an opinion in favour of the right of adolescents to the tribal transfer as Citizen’s Counselor? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] There is another category of arguments against the bill, one which, unfortunately, has succeeded in getting widespread publicity from many media. These are arguments which, in condensation, say that such a draft law puts a bomb on the foundations of the family, harms society's customs. I wonder, though, what harms the family most, that attitude that exalts the unusual, the different child, who marginalizes it first domestically, who pushes it into suicide, who suppresses it to deny what it feels in it, or that attitude that family that shows love, acceptance and respect for every member, man, woman, transgender, mesophile? I also wonder what promotes social progress and social liberation: the obsession with attitudes and practices that are not relevant to the rights of the few, the vulnerable, or the overcoming of social injustices, social transformation in the direction of equal treatment? In these words, I want to close here. Mr President, as head of the Greek delegation to the Council of Europe, I would like to make a necessary clarification, because there has been an inaccuracy by the mouth of my colleague Mrs Kasimatis, who stressed that there is a resolution on Thrace, which has been passed by the Council of Europe. I should like to make a clarification, therefore: this is a motion for a resolution, which only commits those who sign it. It's mostly the Turkish colleagues. This motion for a resolution has been referred to the Council of Europe, as has been said. This, for those who know the usual practice, means referral to the bells most often. Until it reaches the point of being a text of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, there is still a long way to go, even if we do not create impressions. I would therefore like to say that the vote on this amendment, which is being referred to, gives a steep answer and helps not to raise such objections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Panagiotopoulos from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u182	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u183	What do you want, Mrs. Cassimatis? But it's not personal. But don't get this staff thing done. Do you know what he says about the staff? Mrs. Cavadia made a crisis in something you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u184	Something was said about inaccurate by my name.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u185	It's not personal. He didn't attack you for anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u186	Mr President, please listen to me. I ask you to listen to me on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u187	Mr President, it is not personal. Answer given.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u188	Here, you have the floor for a minute, but you're not helping at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u189	The issues are objective. What I said in my speech - and it is entirely true, is not inaccurate - is that there is a resolution voted on by those who voted on it - and they are indeed Turks, Azerbaijan, and various others - entitled 'Protecting the fundamental rights and freedoms of the Turkish Muslim minority in western Thrace'. With this I wanted to explain that, unfortunately, the Council of Europe has thus established this name that we know from the international treaties and the Lausanne Treaty, a Muslim minority. So there is no inaccurateness, because I have the document that I shall be tabling to you. Indeed, in Bureau it was discussed and did not follow the follow-up process of follow-up, which is the lightest thing...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u190	Deal. Deposit the document. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u191	Let me finish, Mr President. It was referred to the committee to take account of the drafting of a questionnaire on the rights of national minorities.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u192	It is not a national minority of Muslims. They're Muslim, they're not ethnic minorities.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u193	I repeat that in Greece we do not accept ethnic minorities and also, although there is a framework contract for national minorities, Greece has signed, but has not ratified. We are bound by this and it is absolutely true what I have tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u194	Thank you very much. Mr. Panayotopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Mr President. To make this clear, ladies and gentlemen, the Treaty of Lausanne mentions the existence of religious and non-national minorities in Greece. It's over and out. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And this treaty regulates bilateral relations to a large extent. Let's figure it out! It's nationally dangerous not to understand it. Secondly, since our President has very extensively covered the issue of the bill - I have had several comments on the articles, but because of a time-consuming economy I will not do so - I will concentrate on Amendment No 1276 which has already been discussed so far. Observation first to the Minister: Mr. Kontonis, you have two meters and two weights. For unions, such as the 'Turkish Union of Thrace' - because there is no doubt anymore that this amendment ultimately concerns the issue of 'Turkish Union of Thrace' and the other unions which have requested recognition under the name 'Turkish' and so on. - Existing compliance with the judgments of the Court of Justice is proposed. For transgenders, however, it is proposed that we comply in part with the judgment of the European Court of Justice. In fact, this is not even mentioned in the explanatory memorandum to the draft bill. I am referring to the Garçon-Nicot case, which hides, among other things, that the presentation of medical advice achieves legal certainty and is the guarantee, as I said yesterday, that people will not wrongly correct their gender. Another measure on one, another on the other. Second point: I really did not understand your intention to proceed so quickly in re-subsidy of the amendment on the 'Turkish Union of Thrace'. You have already acted in a hurry on your first attempt, and you have brought an amendment that is dangerous. It's already done, you know, damage to Thrace, it's upsetting Thrace. I guess you know what's going on over there. It is not just the knowledge of the case-law of the European Courts. The awareness of the Greek reality is also important. I have to say that thankfully you have listened to what we said the first time, what we discussed, you have withdrawn the amendment and now you are correcting it. Fortunately and finally, I would add. You could, of course, also do the same with this bill, withdraw it, bring it improved in the context of our proposal. But that's another matter. What are you doing with the amendment now? You change its original wording and add that revocation or reform of a decision may not apply to the Greek legal order if there is a matter of national security. That is precisely what we have proposed to you in the first debate in the context of the national responsible position that has always been maintained and maintained by the New Democracy. The new wording allows the Greek judge not to recognise unions under the name 'Turkish', 'Turkish' or anything, taking into account grounds of national security and international conditions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in thirty seconds. Speaking of the international situation, Minister, I would ask you to pay attention to us. Listen to us once again and now to legislative improvements, adding the words 'As well as the international treaties' - obviously, this refers to the Treaty of Lausanne - '... and to the original provision of the amendment', as you have already done in its transitional provision, so as to cover the question fully, as well as the decisions which have been adopted so far - transitional provision - but also to decisions which will be adopted by now and beyond in the original provision, when they arise - and to be sure that cases of union recognition will arise. Like mushrooms will grow in the near future in Thrace. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] Cover it, then. Do so in order to fully shield Thrace, sealing every "eye" before it turns into a ferry door. Please, listen to us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u196	Mr. Barriots has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u197	Mr President, I would like the floor for ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u198	There's no need, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u199	Don't lose on account of the procedure a lot of real issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u200	That's not how it works. There is a procedure, Mr Kumucako. According to the terms of office, the procedure also has substance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u201	This is a serious matter and you need to understand that it is serious.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u202	You don't have the floor. Please. Mr. Barriots has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u203	It is wrong for Parliament not to discuss serious things in a serious way.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u204	In this broad sense, there will be no debate here. Here you go, Mr. Barriotta, here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u205	Thank you, Mr President. As I said yesterday, I think that the debate has acquired characteristics and intensity both within and outside Parliament, which are neither justified by the matter nor are helping to discuss an extremely important issue, in my opinion. It is also characteristic of the hurry of the government and the opposition and the convenience with which we are discussing these issues. Ladies and gentlemen of all the wings, Minister, Chief of Staff Response, it is well to speak responsiblely and with information. There is no provision in Law 344/1976 on gender change. There was no New Democracy government, neither Konstantinos Karamanlis nor anyone else who first passed the gender change in Greece. The change of sex for the first time is introduced into Greek legislation by Law 2507/1997, which amends Law 344/1976. I table in the Minutes of Parliament his original law and his corrections and Law 2507/1997 as proof. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Bargiotas, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So it's good to talk with evidence. It's good to speak documentarily. It is good to talk about reading Parliament's history and not just. Unfortunately, this type of ease and urgency have today led to what I said at the outset, to an unnecessary tension and a debate that is taking place in adverse circumstances. In one respect, of course, the government has achieved its purpose. It caused a huge and really uncomfortable noise. The Church and half society were erupted. In practical terms, they are all victims of misinformation. At the same time, in the days when we are discussing a crucial issue - but for a minority - the benefit of heating oil has been cut, it has left a EUR 300 million investment from Greece, a five-year-old girl was found dead in a refugee settlement and thousands of people are waiting to receive pensions. I'm telling you that. Sadly, all of this went to the unavoidable. Yesterday, the Prime Minister said that the government made important areas, he said, of human rights and mentioned the cohabitation pact and citizenship. Correction: The Opposition - the Democratic Alliance, the Potami, the New Democracy - supported SYRIZA to make the cuts, because the Government of the Prime Minister is dismantling when it comes to human rights. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] To respect time, then, I conclude with this. I declare that the time when you were, ladies and gentlemen, both with the police and with the police officer, and left-wing and progressive on Fridays, and conservative and tax-paying Saturdays, is over.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u206	Your time's up, Mr. Barriotta.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u207	You'll give me a minute, what's lost at first.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u208	I gave it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u209	I have something very important to suggest.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u210	Others importantly want to say here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u211	It's an amendment that's important. Allow me. So this time has passed. Like I said, we're in favour of the bill. We talked about it yesterday. I will not repeat the reasons. There have been many arguments both in favour and against. We were also aware of the 15-seven-seven-seven category. Unfortunately, just to say it, the ball is gone. And the ball is lost because of superficiality and speed. There was no discussion about this. There was no committee for this, and you know that, Minister. There was no serious discussion. And we have a situation in which society misinformed, the House misinformed, from what I understand from the Step and the corridors, is trying to take place on an extremely - but extremely - critical and sensitive issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u212	All right, Mr Barriotta, you said it was important. Put a perfect one on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u213	That's not what's important. Give me a minute, Mr President. I'm really jealous of people who work with certainties. I have heard here that all transgenders are 'h-h', so we will do a DNA test and we have cleaned up, we don't need to talk. I heard here that all transgenders are psychopaths with organic psychosis coming up in the Hymittos and listening to voices. Unfortunately, things are much more complicated. It's very complicated and very difficult. Cuvets for children aged 15 to 17, in fact it has not been done. There are dozens of problems and morals and medicals behind them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u214	Mr Barriott, please do not ignore the Bureau. Put a perfect one on it. Ignore the Bureau. You're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u215	I'm done. You're right, I'm sorry. The proposal of the Democratic Alliance is specific. I'll just read this and then I'll finish. We therefore propose the following: Recognising the need to regulate children from 15 to 17, with a presidential decree issued on the proposal of the Ministers for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights and Health, to lay down the conditions and conditions for the correction of the registered gender to minors who have completed the 15th year of age. [[At this point the Member, Mr Constantine Bargiotas, presents for the minutes the above proposal, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We therefore propose that it be arranged by a presidential decree, whose plan will come back to committee, so that society and Parliament can discuss the matter calmly and documentedly, Mr Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u216	End of story, Mr. Barriotta. The rapporteur said it well yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u217	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u218	Mr. Rabbit has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u219	First of all, let us say that I personally sympathize with Mr Contonis. He's brought a bill today that comes from everywhere. His MPs do not vote for alpha or beta. The amendment on the 'Turkish Union of Xanthi', which had been rejected by all Parliament, has now almost avenged it. So man, because he sees that he's lost the game, he's trying to throw the ball away. Therefore, this particular, Contonis, who represents the Minister of Justice, has not recognised the presumption of innocence and has told us of a murder that has taken place, which - since it is the Minister of Justice, is consciously lying because he does not know the case-file, whether he knows it or lies - does not involve any Member or the Chief of Golden Dawn. This is the liar and slander of Contonis. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] Like Kontonis, who is very sensitive to murders, does not say next door to his partner, Mrs. Giannakakis, to apologize after four years, because this lady - who must be ashamed - is ashamed of the time when two young people had been killed, George Fountoulis and Manolis Capelon, outside the offices of the Golden Dawn just because they were golden-blooded, said in the news releases at that time, after a quarter, when the blood of the dead was soaring, that it was clearing up accounts. It's a disgrace to you and you, Condon, who's next door. So you're not picking on the sensitive!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u220	First, don't yell, sound.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u221	The lie of everyone in Parliament appeared - and because the lie has short feet - and a few days ago. On Saturday afternoon there was an attack on some illegal immigrants in the region of the Egyptian Prime Minister. Parliament's parties came out here, made announcements and condemned, he says, the fact that the Golden Dawn was involved. That's what you all said. And we read today: “A seventeen-year-old relative from Russia has been identified by the forty-year-old, who has been beaten.” Homogeneous from Russia! No relationship with the Golden Dawn. This seventeen-year-old, expatriate from Russia, took part in groups of expatriates living in the region who are in constant rivalry with Pakistani workers for low-ranking work. Do you hear it, democrats? We saw, then, once again, your selective sensitivity when it came to an unfortunate incident, a murder, a thousand times I wish it had never happened - four years ago, and all the democrats, who are cut off on the rights of 0,01%, giving them the right to do what they want, for us, do not recognise the presumption of innocence, for us who went inside our homes, elected MPs, party leader and who force us into our homes. We have proved to all of you that we were innocent and the fact that we have been persecuted all this time is that you, your blonde ruling, are fighting against Orthodoxy and the patronage. That's the only motive. I would like to end by stressing - since Kontonis cannot say anything anymore, he has sat at the corner of the discreet and quiet now - the hypocritical attitude of all the other parties in the opposition, because we see that almost no one is voting on Article 3 of the bill, which he was talking about the fifteen-year-old children. We brought this issue up yesterday and objected to unconstitutionalism, and all parties refused it, because the Golden Dawn brought it. Liars! Hypocrites and Pharisees! And today you come to say that you are not voting for it. You're them, and that's why we'll fight you to the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u222	Mr. Delis has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u223	I think that the position of the Communist Party of Greece has been fully developed throughout the whole process of drafting the bill in committee and in plenary by the Members of the party, and there is, of course, no reason to repeat it. Of course, the fact that this position brought together the coordinated fires of all the urban parties with a lot of pseudo-false and excess distortion, does not only show your inability to oppose the essence of our arguments, shows at the same time your irritation, because this arbitrary dividing line you went to put with this bill, very simply did not come out of you. It did not come to you because no line of separatistism, however phenomenal it may be, will ever be able to cover or surpass the basic separatist line that exists in the capitalist society that we are living in, that is, the class line that distinguishes the working class and the people that your policy is crushing, from the capital and the civil order that your policy serves. I shall now refer to two amendments. We will be staying on them, although eight of the amendments are. In the amendment on the increase of the positions of the psychiatric staff of the Koydalus Prisoners, the question that comes to the government is whether these positions will be met. If you decide to cover up, how will they be covered? Will they be hired? Is it going to be about mobility? With what mobility to get personnel from where, from structures already operating on the limits of their operation? I repeat ask these questions, knowing in advance that we will vote on this amendment. Finally, the well-known amendment on the European Court of Justice comes back without a fundamental change in the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights, of course, of the Council of Europe. Although some positive decisions have been made from this European Court of Human Rights at times, this cannot in any case affect - and does not affect - the overall reactionary line, which is increasingly reacting - the Council of Europe and the European Union. They're family, after all. This is reflected in a number of decisions by the Council of Europe - apart from positive decisions such as the Manolada decision - a number of relatively negative decisions by the Council of Europe which call into question democratic, social and labour rights. We are, of course, reminded of his decision on this subject, which did not then bring the required majority together and which dared to equate communism with fascism. In this respect, for the overall, that is, a reactionary line taken by the Council of Europe, we also express our concern at the extent to which things can be taken, and that is why we shall vote 'present' in this amendment. Of course, we must also state from this point of view that the issue of the Muslim minority in Thrace is determined by international conditions, by the Treaty of Losanne, and that cannot change and in no case change by judicial decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u224	Mr. Delia, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u225	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u226	Then, Minister. Mr Papachristopoulos has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u227	Thank you, Mr President. We, as Independent Greeks, have been at the heart of the past few days. I will say this again for once: this is not the first time that we have proved in practice that we have won the right to vote against conscience, which has been done in several bills. I think it will also be done on this subject on a condition and a commitment that Article 3 will vote against it as it has been, by disagreement on the issue of the age of 15. Nevertheless, I would like to say that it is a positive step, a step that should perhaps have been taken a long time ago. We all remember that once a woman in a closed society, when she was divorced, was ringing. Later on on the subject of ID signature, we heard that everything is being destroyed. We again heard dangers and disasters with civil marriage, etc. We've lived many such situations. I think it is time to adapt to what has been decided by the UN, the United Nations, the World Health Organisation and the European Court of Justice in plenary session. Make it clear for once, because I hear incredible things like what they've come to change everything, to do, to make, etc. It is a matter of basic human rights for some people, whose behavior of the rest of society is the worst thing for them and their families. I think it's a step forward, these people don't get laid. It is a small minority and I think it is a sign of real parliamentary democracy, even respect for the few, the three, the ten, the twenty, the fifty. Nothing less and nothing more because such noise has risen, which does not correspond to the speech of the noise. I do not understand why this whole thing has been done, for a legislation, for a piece of legislation that shields fundamental human rights. I don't want to say any more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u228	Thank you for keeping time. Mr. Saridis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u229	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, an irresponsible amendment has found its way to the Greek Parliament very early before even the first meeting of the committee responsible. The committee responsible met three times and with the agreement of SYRIZA and ANEL, the dangerous amendment took its turn to Parliament. One day before he arrived in plenary, a journalist took it. Who knows, who told him what and actually unleashed her in the full moon. Immediately after the first - first - he reacted - or so it seemed, at any rate, that Mr Demetrios Kammenos reacted. The reactions of the political world were such that the matter was raised in a statement on this very amendment, and this amendment was withdrawn. Officially from the Step of the House, the Minister for Justice said that he is withdrawing the amendment, because a meeting was postponed somewhere in Europe, so Greece had a week more time to get the respondents better informed. However, since other Members of the House also reacted the next day, Mr. Kontonis went out to the radio station 'REAL FM' and wondered why no one has responded for twenty-five days, which had been posted on the site of the Parliament. Sadly, however, for Mr. Kontonis, things are not like that at all. I read to you what I said from this Step on 19 September a month ago: 'For this amendment and the risks it contains for national defence, I informed the Government a week ago, in particular, responsible and confidential, as I considered the responsibility I had as a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. I informed you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, long before one of you leaks to journalists the content of this amendment, to use it for its own view." To date, I shall refer to Amendment 1276 by the Ministry of Justice, both in substance and in relation to what was said yesterday in this Chamber. If the President-in-Office of Parliament, Mr Voutsis, really means his comment on what he says, that is to say it was a disgrace to the House, let me refer it to the committee responsible in this House. There I'll be able to defend myself and my principles and I don't have to do it from this step here. However, I cannot accept any unwitting impressions. In essence of the amendment, the need to re-introduce it with supposed improvements is a practical assumption - not to say a confession - of the Minister of Justice that its pre-conception was problematic. Unfortunately, neither this text is sufficiently safe in its present form, since its reference to paragraph 2 of Article 11 of the European Convention on Human Rights is a blow to an open door, it is empty because this particular reference has already been included in the case-law of the European Court of Justice in relation to the specific unions that have recourse to it. In other words, you have not added more than a smokescreen to a political oramad of the gender identity bill in order to give a hold, a mask, an excuse to the members of the Independent Greeks. I therefore call on all my fellow Members to look carefully at the amendment, bearing in mind that it is not only those who are concerned that act against the interests of the country, but also those who have inadequacy, fear or indifference who have preferred not to defend it from their position of responsibility. I personally do not intend to either be included in one or the other category. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u230	Thank you. Mr. Mavrosh has the floor for three minutes. And then we close with the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u231	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be pretty brief. In general, the truth is that there has been enough time for consultation on this bill, with the time given to discuss the legislative and the committees as well. There may have been failures in hearing bodies, in that certain bodies were not called in, but I think that at the last minute things have improved. In any case, we want the scientific community in general to be adjacent to all these procedures alongside the implementation of the law. We have tabled an amendment to do with the mediators, an amendment based on what will be discussed tomorrow in the Council of Europe's plenary session, the unanimous decision of the Council of Europe's Committee on Equality on the possibility of a vacancy for mediators. Because there has been a lot of talk about Article 3 and there is a misunderstanding here, Article 3 does not only concern young people between 15 and 17 years old. Article 3 is essentially the vertebral column of the bill, it is the core of the bill, and it concerns all transgenders who want to enter this gender-correction process into the elements of identity. I say this because it has been heard that 'only Article 3 will not be voted on.' Article 3 is essentially the core of the bill. Because we have received some recommendations in general not to vote either on articles or on the entire bill to "beggar the government", to say that "they are not falling" so the governments do not lose the declared, if a bill is not passed. It requires a motion of censure, which we believe essentially to be aggregating the Coupling. To violate our principles and values for a water hole, in fact, we will not do so. Also, the view to expect what Annells will do first and vote afterwards is also funny. We won't give them that great value. We are canceling if we do this and as our President, Stavros Theodorakis, said before, why would anyone vote Potami, if the Potami vote for what ANELs vote? He wouldn't have any value. We have principles, we have values and we vote on the basis of them, principles which are inextricably progressive and which do not change depending on the sound of the bell, the principles of anthropocentrics, which are not voting principles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u232	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u233	Mr President, a motion from the Democratic Alliance has been tabled. The government itself took the proposal that Mr Papatheodorou submitted to the committee on the existence of a scientific committee, the consent of parents and the judicial decision on the ages of 15 to 17, and we brought this to the House with a legislative improvement, both in committee and in plenary. I heard something about a presidential decree. I can consent on one point to say that this scientific committee, which you proposed, and we have accepted, is set up by a presidential decree, on a proposal from the Ministers for Justice and Health, which will examine each case individually. If you agree on that, I am ready to accept a Presidential Decree setting up the committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u234	Presidential decree to set up a committee?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u235	Sure. On a proposal from the appropriate ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u236	This is the first time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u237	Mr Barriotta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u238	I read the motion for a resolution from the Group of the European People's Party, from the Group of the European People's Party, from the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party, from the Group of the European I don't want to read it again. I've already explained it with two words. I would like to say, with respect for time, in two words, that, apart from the composition of the committee, I recognised that in her first version, as she also came to the committee where the Democratic Coexistence was involved - it is neither secret nor wrong, it has been made by sensitivity to everyone, I recognise, in interest, that we are all interested in this matter - and so, as far as the committee is concerned, it was completely wrong. The second legislative legislation of the government made by Mr. Kontonis and the Ministry was in the right direction, improves things. Unfortunately, however, it is not just a question of being a child psychiatrist or a psychiatrist or a social worker less or more. There are serious scientific issues, there are issues that come together, for example, whether or not there is a gender change in Greece before the seventeenth. We must legislate. In the five days that the whole process has taken place, we have not just discussed it, but we have not even touched it. I do not have a proposal and you do not have a proposal, because we have not heard the scientific bodies that have an opinion and do not have one but have many. So what we are saying - and we insist on this - is that the overall debate must take place on the occasion of a President-in-Office's decree, the draft of which can be discussed in committee and which is not only about the composition of a committee that draws up a paper, but also makes many other things that need to be discussed. And that's from pure interest. One last sentence. The debate is loaded, I said before. There is complete misinformation at all levels and within Parliament. We've heard terrible things from everywhere. It is neither the time nor the place to have such a debate. We insist on what we have tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u239	Mr. Contonis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u240	I would like to say that a proposal has been tabled to the committee. We adopted this proposal. If you weren't ready to testify, you poorly testify. We accepted it as it was and I think that, with appropriate legislation, this proposal has become operational within the framework of the draft law that we are discussing. So, Mr President, it is not very honest, to bring proposals to the committee, to be accepted by the government and, when they are accepted by the government, to say: 'Oh, we have something else'. This is outside the parliamentary framework, you should know. One last thing, Mr President, is that the President of the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group was mentioned. I am not talking about the other things Mr Rabbit has said, Mr President. Rupaias was a member of the Golden Dawn?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u241	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u242	Mr. Michalolikako, are you saying this at this time that you recognized and assumed political responsibility? You say that? Second, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u243	About the Theophilus who killed the other...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u244	Sit down, Mr. Michaloliaco.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u245	Say anything you want for anything. But that's why I'm telling you there's no one lying that Rupakias was a member of the Golden Dawn, he was doing a party service that night, and you deny all that, against photos of Rupaiki in a Golden Dawn camping!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u246	Oh, no! Lies!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u247	You're not ashamed!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u248	The Theophilus of Paros had voted for SYRIZA! It was SYRIZA!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u249	Minister, you do not respect a trial in progress...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u250	Sit down! [[Noise from the Golden Dawn wing]] Prime Minister Tsipras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u251	Ladies and gentlemen, I was afraid I could not be in the Chamber listening to the Chief of Staff, because I had misguided obligations at the Maximos Mansion, but I opened the TV at the time he was talking and I heard what he said. I do not want to mention - yesterday - as far as the substance of my criticism of the New Democracy is concerned, and the reasons which led the Chief of Officerial Response to a political commitment to maintaining cohesion within his party. This is what Greek society sees, it judges, and Greek citizens see them. Nor do I want to mention - because it is not rare for this Parliament to happen - that we see a political leader, that he has another view on the substance, and that he has a point of order to vote against. They see us and judge us, as the citizens concerned - and not just - when they met with them two months ago and promised them that they would vote at first and come here today on a cress for the settlement of their party and for the concession of space - I would say - on the extreme right wing. Your right is all that. I mean one thing. He's in his absence too. I'd like him to be here to answer me. Won't he come to vote? Here it is. Let's go, let's get in. This option of referring to this example, I do not understand. Other examples did not exist to mention? He said that I was told by a psychiatrist that we could not give a choice to a man eighteen - eighteen be careful - without medical advice. Because he referred to the case of a person who asked him 'why are you choosing a gender change'? And he answered, he says, 'cause he went to the Hypothet and the aliens told him. That's a disgrace! Because it is shameful to exalt, humiliate a social category that has the right to choose and say that I need medical and psychiatric care because it chooses this right to choose. [[Applause]] It's a disgrace! And I'm waiting for the Chief of Officer's Reconciliation, who has the right to do as many assholes as you can...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u252	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u253	Sit down, sit down! So I look forward to getting out of this Step and getting this hybrid report back to our fellow citizens who claim the right that he, supposedly liberal, does not deny that it is a right. It is unfortunate and, at the same time, embarrassing to this category of our fellow citizens, the reference to the fact that those who have the option of this choice may be in need of psychiatric surveillance. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, the debate that is taking place in this Chamber has, I would say, a hypocritical dimension, a profoundly hypocritical dimension. [[Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, President of the New Democracy, enters the Chamber.]] Welcome, Mr. Mitsotakis. I wish you heard what I said, so you could answer me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u254	I heard you. I wonder why you weren't here when I was talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u255	Take the floor to answer me. I'm here to take the floor. I'm here. I didn't get into the Hothouse to ask the aliens to change my mind. I have an opinion, I'm in position, I'm in a straight line, and I'm not hiding behind my finger. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] For the past two days, therefore, a debate has been taking place in a context of deep hypocrisy, because instead of discussing a large and substantial section which concerns - I would say - an elementary modernisation for the country that is at the core of Europe, where nineteen European Union countries have transposed into their law the possibility for the people who choose it, to define themselves in terms of gender identity, instead of talking about this, the substance, in which, otherwise, the Warsaw of Officerial Response states that it agrees, but my disagreements and disagreements are on secondary procedural issues - we are discussing the issue of the age of 15 instead of the seventeen. I would like to explain why I think this is a great deal of hypocrisy. Because, ladies and gentlemen, for the trans-national juvenile citizens of 15 years old, these trans-gender children who are suffering scary high school bowling due to stereotypes and social behavior, what should primarily be bored in our consciences, is whether we give them the legal capacity - regardless of whether they are many of these children or a few, because it doesn't matter how many people are, and one being - to stop this dramatic behaviour which they have at the sensitive age of 15 and 16 in the social areas where they are. This should concern us firstly. You mentioned psychiatrists who tell you they're going to Hymittos and told them by the aliens, but you didn't mention...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u256	Have you ever talked to them?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u257	Sure. You're not the only ones talking to psychiatrists. Others talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u258	We've seen it from how much you understand it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u259	You have not mentioned the fact that there are dozens of attempts at suicide in our schools and in the Greek province, which are hiding under the carpet, because there is an institutional framework that cannot be adapted to give way to normality to these people, to these fellow citizens, who from this young age are in that place, where they must, of course, choose. You know, you can't expect the age of eighteen to control his hormonal behavior. We cannot, how to do it and plunder, saying that at fifteen they cannot get alcohol. Do we not know in this Chamber that on the basis of our right, good or bad, we are giving the opportunity to conclude a marriage ten years in court? We give the opportunity by court for 15 years to go to prison for minors, and of course we give the 12 children the identity of them. What about the 15-year-olds? We say that we are forming an institutional framework in which, with the consent of parents and the medical opinion given by a committee with psychiatrists, pediatricians and social workers, they will have the opportunity to go to the judicial procedure, the voluntary procedure without all the precedents, and the highly insulting ones, in order to obtain the identity of the one that is appropriate to their behaviour, with their existence, which means their sense of self-determination. That's what we're saying. So, what hypocrisy in these two days has led us to a debate that is taking place not in terms of 2017 but in terms of the Middle Ages, of darkness? So we're going out ahead, Mr. Mitsotakis, we have the responsibility of our opinion, our opinion, we're not hiding behind our finger. So I urge you again, whatever view you have - whatever your position, it is your right - to withdraw this unacceptable example that you have given, because it is insulting to a social category and you have no right to insult them. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You have the right to make fun of them when you meet them and say that you will vote and not vote. But you have no right to humiliate them and insult them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u260	The President of the New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u261	I would recommend you, Mr Tsipras, to be a little more calm when you come to this Chamber, not to be so passionate about issues that I understand create a great political problem for you. Because I fear that, too, this extremely sensitive issue, you are working on it to rally your own parliamentary group. That's why you're doing it for no other reason. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Speaking of those present and absent, once again you were not in my speech, and I am in every speech of yours. But I wonder...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u262	You were in my speech yesterday and I didn't see you?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u263	You told us you'd talk today. I, Mr. Tsipras, am present. I was informed that you spoke and I came to answer immediately. I wonder, where is Mr. Kammens exactly? And Mars would go, so he wouldn't be there! Speaking of which, the one who went to the Archbishop and told him he would drop the government if necessary, now puts the tail in the legs. He doesn't even dare be in this room. Of course, he himself to keep the chair he promised, to vote against exactly the opposite of what he believes. This is the hypocrisy of this heterogeneous government formation, which unfortunately has been ruling us for two and a half years now. So let us come to the point of the case. You know, it is sad, Mr Tsipras, that you enjoy a true story, which a man has mentioned to me forty years now, with great responsibility and unbelievable professionalism, handles the issues of transgenders. You have made it clear, because I have used an example to show just that there are cases of people who believe or may believe that they want to change sex, for reasons that they have nothing to do with real content, how they experience the sense of their gender, and that for these cases a responsible state, Mr Tsipras, requires a security filter and a diagnosis. We're asking for a diagnosis! Nothing more! A diagnosis! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Is that so backward, Mr. Tsipras? Someone should go to an expert and I'm not telling you to go anywhere. Because I heard claims that there are carnivores doctors and everything. We tell you to go to the certified center in "Egyptio", see a man, assure him, if anything, of the responsibilities he assumes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u264	To assure him he's not a psychopath!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u265	What did you say? It's not a matter of psychopathy, my lord. It's a matter of fundamental sensitivity to people. They know that and they themselves are aware of it, Mr Tsipras, if you really want to get into the essence of this decision, the difficult decision is not to change identity. The difficult decision is when a child, a boy, will make the decision, get out of the house dressed as a girl. That's the difficult decision, and that's why he needs heavy psychological support. Don't talk to me about arguments about allegedly psychiatristizing the problem. The issue has a medical dimension and you're blind if you don't see it, and you're irresponsible if you don't see it against the new children. So don't shake my finger on an issue that you probably don't know well. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I'll ask you one more question. Because I care about the matter, I went to the trouble of personally dealing with the community. I recognised and recognize today the right to self-determination. I recognized and I recognize that obsolete logic of surgery and hormonal treatments belong to the past. I say clearly, however, that we also need a safety net. Now watch the irony. This safety test, Mr Tsipras, is accepted by you for the fifteen years of age, for the sixteen and seventeen years of age. But you don't accept it for the eighteenth year old. And I ask why.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u266	He's an adult, that's why.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u267	Oh, he's an adult! Sure! He's an adult! But you recognize that this case and this procedure involve elements which require the involvement of a psychiatrist. You recognize it yourself. So, Mr Tsipras, for the 15-year-old, sixteen-year-old, seventeen-year-old, we tell you exactly the same thing to do for both the eighteen-year-old and the 20-year-old. Can I tell you something else? We disagree on that, and you know that very well and we explained it to you. It's very simple, Mr. Tsipras, we can agree here. Withdraw the bill and come to vote on our proposal for a law, if you really want to agree on it. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] We are not evading, Mr. Tsipras. You will make it easier for some deaf-minded ANEL MPs, who are preparing to vote against Article 3. You will thus make it easier for your government partner, you can bring him back from Brazil so that he does not hide, not to leave the Chamber to the detriment of his incredible personal inconsistency. So let us be a little serious, Mr Tsipras. Let us be serious and look at a real problem in its real dimension. So we are completely clear and say it without any rotation. We call it open to the LGBTKI community, with which we have a sincere communication channel, regardless of whether we agree on all issues. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Why are you shouting? Hang in there.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u268	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u269	Mr President, I think you can apply the order to the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group. We are saying this clearly. This issue - I said in my speech - is not a matter that only concerns Mr Contonis, in his capacity as Minister of Justice. It is not just a matter of individual rights. You're blinded if you think it's not a medical matter at the same time. That is our view. We testify with temperament. We're putting in a law proposal. We ask you to vote on it. Aren't you going to vote for it? We'll vote for it when we become a government.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u270	The President has the floor, Mr Tsipras.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u271	Mr. Mitsotakis, from what you said, what I understand is that you have a problem of understanding my arguments. And that may be the worst thing, that you don't understand what you said. You say "we are in favour of the right to self-determination", which would be absolutely consistent with someone who states liberal. At the same time as you say "we are in favour of the right to self-determination" you say that adult citizens must go to get an opinion before they get the right to self-determination. In other words, heterogeneous definition of the right to self-determination. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You've lost the ball! You don't know what happens to you and you prove, through your ignorance, to handle critical and serious issues, that you are ultimately about to be a prosperous liberal and that you are deeply conservative. You're not even liberal. You're a neoliberal, hard neoliberal. All the legislation that abolishes social cohesion, work and rights are very happy to vote. However, as far as the issues are concerned, it concerns taboo issues for the Greek society, you are folding. The second thing you did not understand is that you set an unfortunate example. I have not insulted you because it may not be true the example you have given.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u272	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u273	Sit down! I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u274	It's a real example.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u275	I insulted you for your choice to give this example. Do you understand what you're doing? Didn't you have another example to give? So what do you actually say to us about the people who listen to us, the citizens, the MPs? Coming here to give the example of a person who, in his eighteen years, needs psychiatric support, and that is why he wanted to make a gender change, that is to say, gain the right to self-determination, you give the feeling that you are identifying a whole category of fellow citizens who have this right to those who, possibly few, are facing psychological problems. And that's what I said. It's a disgrace. You didn't even understand that! Instead of coming and saying "Okay, by mistake, I have set an example, but obviously the majority of cases are not about people who need psychiatric support", you insist on this. The worst thing, then, is you don't understand, Mr. Mitsotakis. I want to make something clear. If, therefore, the crucial issue for you is the opinion or opinion of the scientists on the medical board, why refuse this and have you lifted it for those fellow citizens, for transgender children, who suffer incredible bowling and humiliation when going to high school and whose image, of course, their physical presence is inconsistent with the name shown in the list and which the professor reads on the list? In the name of what rational, scientific approach, religion, religious commitment, which is absolutely respected, what God is he, the merciful and philanthropist, that leads us to make decisions about these children to lead them to bowling, humiliation, suicide? Who? Tell us. Tell us. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So you come here, Mr. Mitsotakis, once again, with the caramel of the Independent Greeks and Mr. Kammenos. Well, life itself proves who the Independent Greeks are, with their attitudes, with their ideas, with their ideas, with their ideology, which you accuse them of being, supposedly, extreme right. Others are far-right. They're inside your party, you've got them Vice Presidents. You accuse them of being backwards and, of course, of being guilty that some of the Central Left fought with these far right-wing far-rights who were at LAOS and now they're in your party, they're called the Burned far-right. With Kammenos in the government, however, he passed the cohabitation pact, passed the citizenship bill, now passes this gender identity bill. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You don't like it, but that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u276	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u277	Ladies and gentlemen, what matters is that today we will have a very important and great section on Greek matters: in the first place, a bill that is crucial to the expansion of individual and social rights, a bill that is a step forward and which makes us go to Europe rather than leave it, Mr Mitsotakis, because this cannot be a la carte, it will be voted on. I would therefore like to assure you that, yes, there is a letter vote by the Minister who, in principle, votes in favour of the bill. Because, yes, that is crucial, ladies and gentlemen. This bill will be passed by a large majority in the first place and its critical articles will be passed, whether you like it or not, Mr Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u278	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u279	Mr President, do you not think that this has matured for a vote?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u280	I'd like a minute. Mr. Kammenos is not basically far-right. He's a lucky persecutor, Mr. Tsipras. Let's get this straight. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And let the recordists correct me, but I do not remember the Independent Greeks and Mr. Kammenos having voted for the coexistence agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u281	That's all we said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u282	No, you didn't say any more. With Mr Kammenos in the government, we voted for the coexistence pact, which Mr Kammenos did not vote for and I voted for it, Mr Tsipras. This is the hypocrisy that distinguishes you! I voted for it by seventeen other Members, in fact, because we did not have party discipline. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Look, Mr. Tsipras. This heirly government formation will have an end date. For Mr Kammenos, it will obviously be condemned to political obscurity, because I think that no one can understand the respondents of the pirates, who have no other interpretation, except the need to be kept in the chair. So Mr. Kammenos in the House does not see him coming in unless you offer him a way out and give him a seat in your own State vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u283	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u284	Not provided. Here was Mr. Kammenos taking the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u285	Mr President, I want a minute to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u286	You have a minute and we'll be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u287	Thank you. [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[TAKE PAGE 213a]] [[TAKE PAGE 214a]] First of all, about where our President, Panos Kammenos, asked yesterday, before Mr Mitsotakis, Mr Georgiadis, the Vice-President of the New Democracy, and I replied that he was missing on a scheduled trip to Brazil for a while. A week ago we discussed the application made by Mr Mitsotakis for the Committee of Inquiry into NOOR 1 here. Mr. Mitsotakis didn't even sit to talk to him. He'll have to apologize. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u288	The debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights is adjourned: "Legal recognition of the gender identity - National Mechanism for the Training, Monitoring and Evaluation of Action Plans for the Rights of the Child and other provisions". Ladies and gentlemen, a request has been made for a roll-call vote on Article 3 of the New Democracy Members whose text reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u289	I will also read out the list of signatories for a roll-call vote to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. Mr. Tsiaras Konstantinos. Here you go. Mr. Panagiotopoulos Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Besiropoulos Apostolos. Here you go. Mr. Karaoglu Theodore. Here you go. Mrs. Vultish Sophia. Here. Mr. Hatzidakis Konstantinos. Here you go. Mr. Kikilias Vassilis. Here you go. Mr. Georgiadis Spyridon - Adonis. Here you go. Mr. Kalafatis Stavros. Here you go. Mr. Kedicoglou Simeon. Here you go. Mr. Yoyakas Vassilis. Here you go. Mr. Andrian John. Here you go. Mr. Congogiorgos Konstantinos. Here you go. Mr Anastasiades Savvas. Here you go. Mr Vagioni Georgios. Here you go. Mr. Stamatis Dimitrios. Here you go. Mr. Stavros Christos. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for a roll-call vote. Also, for the vote on the bill on principle, on Articles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7, as well as on Amendment No 1276/113, a request has been made for a roll-call vote of members of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, the text of which is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u290	I will also read out the list of signatories to request a roll-call vote in order to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. Mr. Michaeliakos Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Aivatidis John. Here you go. Mrs. Vlachos Salvation. Here. Mr. Germenis George. Here you go. Mr. Gregos Antonios. Here you go. Mrs. Zaroulia Helen. Here. Mr. Ilioopoulos Panagiotis. Here you go. Mr. Caracos Evangelos. Here you go. Mr. Cassidy Elias. Here you go. Mr. Kouzilos Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. John Rabbit. Here you go. Mr. Barbarousis Constantine. Here you go. Mr. Panayotaros Elias. Here you go. Mr. Poppa Christos. Here you go. Mr. Shahinides John. Here you go. Mr. Hajisavasavas Christos. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for a roll-call vote. We are therefore adjourned for ten (10') minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u291	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. There will be a roll-call vote on the principle and on Articles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 of the bill, as well as on the Ministerial Amendment No 1276/113 to the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: "Legal recognition of the identity of sex - National Mechanism for the Training, Monitoring and Evaluation of Action Plans for the Rights of the Child and other Provisions". Would you like to add the two votes to one?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u292	So the House unanimously agreed. The acceptance of the bill in principle, the articles and the amendment are ‘NEI’. Those who fail to accept the bill in principle, to the articles and to the amendment say 'OH'. The voters say 'PARON'. Mrs Anastasia Gara is on the list by SYRIZA and Mr. Apostolos Vesyropoulos from New Democracy. I would also like to inform you that fax (fax) colleagues have come to the Bureau in accordance with Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, which makes their vote at first reading, articles and amendments to the bill. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u293	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The letters sent to the Bureau by colleagues under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure will be recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u294	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that letters from my fellow Members have been sent to the Bureau. Luminous Genuines, Michael Jeleighis, Ioannis Maniatis and Vassilis Kegeroglou, who know that they are absent from the vote and that if they were present, they would vote according to the proposal of the Democratic Incorporation. Mr Georgios Karasmanis is absent and he knows by letter that if he were present, in principle, and on Articles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 he would vote 'NOV' and on Amendment No 1276/113 he would vote 'NOV'. Also, Mr Anastasios Kourakis is absent and by letter he knows that if he were present, in principle, on Articles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 and on Amendment No 1276/113 he would vote 'NAI'. These letters, which express the intention of voting, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting, but are not taken into account in the counting of votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u295	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned, and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and the result. [[COMMUNICATION]] Ladies and gentlemen, until the count is completed, we are voting on the rest of the other articles and amendments. Does this House accept Article 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u296	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u297	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u298	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u299	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u300	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u301	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u302	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u303	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u304	Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 9 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u305	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u306	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u307	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u308	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u309	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u310	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u311	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u312	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u313	Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u314	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u315	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u316	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u317	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u318	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u319	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u320	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u321	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u322	Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 11 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u323	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u324	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u325	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u326	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u327	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u328	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u329	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u330	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u331	Article 11 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u332	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u333	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u334	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u335	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u336	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u337	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u338	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u339	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u340	Article 12 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 13 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u341	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u342	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u343	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u344	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u345	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u346	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u347	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u348	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u349	Article 13 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does the House accept the amendment by a general number 1267 and a special 107, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u350	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u351	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u352	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u353	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u354	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u355	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u356	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u357	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u358	The amendment with a general number of 1267 and a special 107 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same articles. Does the House accept the amendment with a general number of 1268 and a specialist of 108 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u359	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u360	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u361	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u362	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u363	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u364	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u365	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u366	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u367	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1268 and a specialist of 108 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment with a general number of 1271 and a specialist of 109 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u368	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u369	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u370	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u371	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u372	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u373	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u374	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u375	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u376	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1271 and a specialist 109 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment with a general number of 1272 and a special number of 110 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u377	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u378	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u379	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u380	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u381	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u382	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u383	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u384	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u385	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1272 and a special 110 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment with a general number of 1274 and a specialist of 111 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u386	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u387	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u388	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u389	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u390	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u391	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u392	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u393	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u394	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1274 and a special 111 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment with a general number of 1275 and a special number 112, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u395	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u396	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u397	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u398	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u399	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u400	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u401	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u402	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u403	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1275 and a special 112 was accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u404	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the roll-call vote. A total of 284 Members voted. In favour of the principle of the bill, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 171 MPs. Against the start of the bill, i.e. 'OH', they voted 113 MPs. 'PARON' voted no one. The Bill of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: "Legal recognition of gender identity - National Mechanism for the Training, Monitoring and Evaluation of Action Plans for the Rights of the Child and other provisions" was accepted in the first place by a majority. Preliminary ruling — High Court of Justice In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 165 Members. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', 118 Members voted. Vote "PARTS" 1 Member. Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Preliminary ruling — High Court of Justice In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 165 Members. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', 118 Members voted. Vote "PARTS" 1 Member. Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 3: In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 148 Members. Against the article, namely 'NO', they voted 123 Members. They voted for 13 MPs. Article 3 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Preliminary ruling — High Court of Justice In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 165 Members. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', 118 Members voted. Vote "PARTS" 1 Member. Article 4 was therefore accepted as being majority. Preliminary ruling — High Court of Justice In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 165 Members. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', 118 Members voted. Vote "PARTS" 1 Member. Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Preliminary ruling — High Court of Justice In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 165 Members. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', 118 Members voted. Vote "PARTS" 1 Member. Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. Preliminary ruling — High Court of Justice In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 165 Members. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', 118 Members voted. Vote "PARTS" 1 Member. Article 7 was therefore accepted as being majority. The amendment with a general number of 1276 and a special number of 113: In favour of the amendment, i.e. 'NAH', 240 Members voted. On the amendment, i.e. 'NO', 44 Members voted. 'PARON' voted no one. Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1276 and a special 113 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u405	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u406	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u407	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u408	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u409	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u410	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u411	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u412	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u413	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u414	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. The Bill of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: "Legal recognition of the identity of sex - National Mechanism for the Training, Monitoring and Evaluation of Action Plans for the Rights of the Child and other Provisions" was accepted in principle and on articles. [[Applause]] We move on to vote on the bill and on the whole. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u415	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u416	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u417	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u418	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u419	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u420	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u421	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: ‘Legal recognition of the identity of sex - National Mechanism for the Training, Monitoring and Evaluation of Action Plans for the Rights of the Child and other Provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in the first place, of articles and all of them and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u422	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u423	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-10-S1-commons.u424	With the agreement of the House at 15.15 p.m., the meeting for the next Thursday, October 12, 2017, at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of work in the House: (a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent debate and (b) legislative work, only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food: "Movement and marketing of fresh and vulnerable agricultural products and other provisions".
