ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the supplementary agenda of LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Adaptation of Greek legislation to the provisions of Directive (EU) 2016/881 and other provisions’. I would like to remind you that in yesterday's sitting the list of speakers was completed and today's sitting will speak in principle and in a parliamentary order, or, if they want to, the remaining parliamentary representatives who did not speak at all yesterday. They will then be seconded, if they so wish, by the rapporteurs and the special speakers. It goes without saying that, if the Minister wants to intervene at some point in the process of its secondaryity, she will take the floor and because I think that there will be a time for this, there will also be a tolerance for the positions and positions of parliamentarians and rapporteurs and speakers. So I think we can start with this in principle. Before we begin, however, I have been asked by the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative to make a statement, and I am therefore giving him the floor right away for the statement he wants to make.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a bill - since yesterday - which contains nine articles, in essence, on the directive and twenty others, added by the Ministry of Finance. We have seen a number of amendments since yesterday. Almost every ten minutes, amendments have been tabled to the House, where almost thirty-five of them have reached the number, if we count on all six amendments, which have been added to the bill. We as a New Democracy have already denounced this incident too many times and the fact that the government is actually moving towards a bad legalization. But it's not just a bad piece of legislation. We believe that it is also a disrespect to Parliament's legislative function. I would also like to address you, Mr President, as a representative of the Bureau. You should overall safeguard the validity of the institution, the validity of the legislative function. I would like to make two letters, which the President of the New Democracy has tabled last year - and one this year - appeals to the President of Parliament, to the Bureau of Parliament all of us, together, to preserve this prestige. Yesterday, we started the procedure and were twenty amendments. This morning, I counted them and they're thirty. We hear there's going to be more coming. We, as a New Democracy, leave the process and denounce it. We will certainly not be present at this, which is happening in the Chamber. We therefore believe that as a sign of safeguarding the prestige of the institution, as a sign of preserving the good legislature of the Greek Parliament, the least we can do is leave. I am tabling the letters on the Minutes and we are saying that we will not continue as a new democracy in this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u3	In my view, I mean as President-in-Office at the moment, I am not allowed to place myself in position. I regret, however, that three parties from the eight are leaving the sitting. That is what I think needs to be considered for all of us, especially the government. It is not the case now that amendments are tabled. But I think it's an epidemic. I close this issue here, beyond any view I have at the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u5	Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u6	We were also placed yesterday on this orchid of the amendments. I have now heard from the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative that the amendments have been increased since last night. I have not taken any new amendments. It is a matter of order if new amendments have been tabled and we do not have them. Also, to determine our position - because we denounced yesterday, but did not leave - I would like to ask the government directly: will it bring further amendments? We want an answer to determine our position.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u7	Understood. I will give the Minister the floor as to whether any new amendments will be made. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u8	There will be no new amendment. We only have the ones who've already been tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u9	The ones that were submitted before the end of the meeting?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u10	No, before the end of the meeting. The three of you were taken from yesterday. We just haven't presented them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u11	There is a statement from the Minister that, from the moment we speak, until the sitting is closed with the vote in the bill, no other amendment will be tabled. Here, Mr. Panayotare, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. This, of course, does not justify you. The volume of the amendments is greater than the volume of the main bill - 'pot cigarine', which includes a little more than anything. We'll stay here by the end of the day to unlock and judge everything you bring. In addition, yesterday the special speaker, Mr Germenis, placed twice and said about everything that has happened in this bill and not just, where at the last minute you have brought many amendments, which are impossible along with the volume of the general parliamentary work of the last two weeks to be followed by any Member and any party. Thanks where.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u13	Mr. Madda, will you go according to your well-settled personal in the end?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u14	In the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u15	Good. Mr. Kefaliannis I'm erasing him. New Democracy's retired. Mr. Maniotis, would you like to take the floor now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u16	Let other colleagues speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u17	Watch out. The other colleagues are parliamentarians as prototypes, they are the rapporteurs and the speakers afterward as secondary speakers and the government's secondaryities. So I ask you again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u18	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u19	You, as a parliamentary representative, will also have the option of secondary. I'm putting you in the first place instead of twelve minutes, fifteen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u20	Less, 'cause I'll talk later.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u21	It doesn't get lost anyway. I'll give you twelve. If you need a tolerance, you'll have it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, this - and I would ask SYRIZA colleagues to look at it - is the body of amendments and this is the main body of the bill. Are you proud of this process? In terms of size and volume alone, the amendments tabled yesterday and the other day are twice as large as the main body of the bill. How can a normal man who lives in an abnormal country with an abnormal government characterize it? Mercury? Pharsoccody? Parliament's expropriation? Whatever you say, it will be much less than what is happening in this Chamber. Unfortunately, that's not all. The directive, which we have to incorporate and which is a positive directive, because it reduces the scope for tax evasion at a pan-European level, has a specific purpose. One of the amendments you brought in, do you know what he says? One of the amendments to the Incorporation of the Tax Evasion Directive at Pan-European level says how the parking, car parking and the Stavros Niarchos Foundation will be handled. There is no longer anything on which a fundamental logic and a fundamental parliamentary ethics can be founded. You've crossed all the line. You've crossed the limits of self-determination. Article 45 of this bill is the humiliation of the Greek Government. I hope it is not seen as a humiliation of Greece. You who drag the head of ELSTAT, Mr. Georgiou, have signed here to pay the costs of his lawyers, because he has been justified in all the courts. Pay it out of your pocket. You have serious political responsibilities, you have a moral obligation not to impose the state budget on the costs of the court of Mr Georgios, because you have a personal responsibility for each of you for this fate of the Hellenic Republic. We have more to overcome what the Greek citizen could expect. We have a pearl of pearls of Mr. Tsipras, the head of government, the Prime Minister, who feels happy, happy, because in the center of Athens he sees smiling faces and why he can very comfortable, as he says, circulate in Exarcheia. Obviously, he sees smiling faces and is released from the garden of Megaron Maximos and has as an extra decorative element the knives of MATs that protect him from Greek citizens. This, according to the Prime Minister, recommends changing the page of a country that signed a third and fourth Memorandum and now comes to tell us that Greeks can smile! Do you know how much HIS is coming now? It's 3.1 billion! Do you know how many extra tax burdens you have submitted to the Greek taxpayers? It's 3.7 billion! The headlines of today's newspapers accurately and fully record the orchestra of tax policy that comes in the next few months. It is important that the Prime Minister yesterday interviewed "ALPHA" with a small dose of pride: "You know, they may call us liars, but they don't tell us thieves." Which is an honor! You accept the designation of a large part of the citizens that you are liars, but you say 'at least we are not thieves!'. You know, the Greek people say "the liar and the thief is only happy in the first year". I do not know what will be the development of the country's political life in the next few years. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] It is therefore very important that if the government wishes to continue under normal conditions of order to resolve the public affairs of the country, it should realise that we live in a European country where there are institutions, there are Parliament, there are independent authorities and there are justice. Because we have now exceeded all the limits that one might accept the interventions of the executive and the Maximus group, even in the independent institution of justice. It is unprecedented that the President of the Council of State, the Association of Judges and Prosecutors and the Plenary Assembly of the Bar Associations of Greece with one voice denounce and say "To here!" It is not Erdogan's regime here, it is not Maduro, it is not Hungary's and Poland's regime. You continue in the same tactic, the way I have said: degrade Parliament. This can be the choice of the government, the representatives of the Greek people, the MPs of SYRIZA. Is this an option, is it an honor to those of you who were in previous parliamentary periods, who knew that there was never an amendment in such a way, to such an extent and with such a tune? Because now we have reached the other, the government's last level of credibility. All you have left is that: 'You know, we're just as bad as the previous bad guys'. So why upset the whole country and stopped the course of Greek society's exit from the memoranda in 2015? To be as bad as the previous bad guys? Why have you taken this risk at the expense of the national economy, taken to the markets at a more expensive rate than what you could have achieved under other conditions and conditions? Because Mr Tsipras obviously said very low tone: 'It was a surprise interest rate'. Evidently, negative surprise, temperamental surprise! Why would the country have borrowed, if there were any other government at a much lower rate and why, despite the fact that Mr Varoufakis denounced Mr Tsipras that he confessed that he gave far more than the 'Samaro-Venezellos', in this case nothing better has been done in that country. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will end this first phase of my position, because I would like to close with something that, in my view, represents the great challenge of Greek society. The great challenge of Greek society is with a very clear eye and a very clear mind to evaluate what we have been living for the last two and a half years, to assess the collapse of the incredible lies that have been made since 2012. To realize that people in the country are currently ruling on people who were attempted in the first half of 2015 to make a coup against the country's Constitution and institutional order. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] People who were the "assets" of Mr. Tsipras, Mrs. Zoe Konstantopoulou, President of the Parliament, Mr. Panagiotis Lafazanis, the top minister, describe the Prime Minister as a traitor. You chose them. You made them first-class officials of the country's political life. You are now coming to the government's third big 'asset', Mr Varoufakis, and because you do not dare say that Varoufakis is lying, are you trying with euphemism to avoid the big question posed: has the country really been prepared for an exit project from the European Union and the euro? Was the country really prepared to enter the hell of bankruptcy? In fact, Mr. Tsipras at the last minute resurrected and changed his choices because he was afraid of "Goude". Because that is what your own man, the one you chose as head of the negotiating team for the future of the country, has done enough with the smart ones! That's enough of the ingenuity. You have a duty to respond directly to what is happening today in the country and we have led to a loss of 100 billion euros, in mortgage on the colonial fund of the whole of the country's public property and in additional measures of 15 billion euros paid by Greek citizens. These are the answers that the government has to give. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u23	The Foreign Minister, Mr Mavraganis, has the floor for five minutes to defend and present his amendment. Immediately afterwards, Mr. Panayotarus will speak. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the order we are trying to put in the uninsured vehicles sector by applying a 2013 law, but after the change in the insurance regime of 2014 that surprised the citizens very much, it includes a dynamic field where information is exchanged daily with all people and in particular with our fellow people who are in poverty, poverty or economic weakness in general and need social protection. So an issue that had been escaping for two decades, had been dispersed by the attention of political power and the state in general. What's that? On 1 January 2004, those vehicles were destroyed, were stolen, in any case were destroyed, they had to be declared in some way. However, since, after 2004 with Presidential Decree No 116, as incorporated a related directive of 2000, it was foreseen that the declaration of such vehicles, which reaches the end of their life cycle, should have been made through a recycling company, that the question arises as to what is to be done with what is to be done before 2004. Thus the services themselves had chosen the way to follow the provisions in force after 2004 and for the previous years. You can understand, then, that this had created a huge weakness - not just confusion - to the consumer public, our fellow citizens, to our fellow citizens who had a vehicle which had been destroyed before 2004 and had somehow to say that to clean up the vehicle register, either the Ministry of Finance or the Ministry of Transport. So it comes with this amendment, which stipulates that, with a responsible statement in substance by the owners of vehicles, they will be able to state... If you want, listen to me, and then say what you want. [[Noise in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u25	Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u26	So this amendment comes just to heal this void and enable our fellow people in a bad economic position - especially those who are in this situation - to declare that their vehicles were destroyed before 2004 and thus help the entire system of the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Finance to clear the registers, but also on the other hand not to bear a fine that is not due here. That is the amendment. I think she's socially just and compelled.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u27	Good. Mr. Panayotus, you have the floor. If necessary, you'll have a little tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Mavragani, your amendment very well, but there are other technical issues when someone goes to withdraw a vehicle even after 2004. He's been asked for some senseless things. You can check it and make it easier for people who, for cars after 2004, have too many technical and other difficulties with their withdrawal. Look at it. First of all, I would like to reply that the thief and the liar do not enjoy the first year in this country, at least forty-three years now. As we see, their spectacular work continues unnecessarily. We also heard something about the 'colonial fund'. The terminology for this fund is very correct. However, the New Democracy and the PASOK also voted for this, voting for the third memorandum, which included it in that orchestra. Before I speak of the economic bill which concerns the Greek Parliament today, I would like to comment quickly on the unfortunate statement by Mr. Janakopoulos on the invasion of the armed anarchists - after all, they themselves admit it - of Ruvikon in the courtyard that it was an act of activist and that the police did what they had to do. Judging by today's statements - official and informal - by the Greek Police, the police did not do what they had to do, but what they were ordered to do. Because if he did what he had to do, he would have solved the problem much earlier. Today we are discussing an economic bill containing a huge pork of articles about and regardless of each other, and even more amendments, much more so than the main bill. I would also like to comment on what Mr Tsipras, the honourable Prime Minister, has said in his speech to GUARDIAN and ALPHA. He said - and he sadly compared - that in 2021, with the actions we now take - by meaning of the SYRIZA and ANEL Government - we will celebrate the two hundred years of revolution in a very different way in a different Greece. These actions and differences are already experienced by all Greek citizens and we will experience them even more in the coming years. Certainly nothing can compare with any Mr. Tsipras and no Mr. Samaras with the fighters of 1821 who released this place, not of course, to see these miserable things that are happening in our day. You celebrate, gentlemen, the SYRIZA and ANEL, for your exit on the markets, which, if we look at your statements and your texts - there are too many elements on the Internet and within Parliament and in questions and elsewhere - you have themselves been confiscating in the worst way. You have done so - and, indeed, you are celebrating - with very unfavourable conditions for the truly tragic Greek economy. And when the first memorials and agreements were concluded in terms of English law - to remember English law - some SYRIZA Members - even ministers - were in the bars and were going up on the benches, accusing the previous ones of the very things you are doing now. Even questions you had tabled - we found one, there were many - in Parliamentary Control. One of the two questions about English law was Mr Tsakalots, who now signed it with his hands and feet. The other was Mr Lafazanis, who, if anything, had the political emotiveness to resign and continue his struggle from wherever he continues. The real economic situation in our country is at a tragic point, no matter what you say. It is the same candy, the same words, the same expressions, the same terminologies it used and the New Democracy - PASOK - earlier than the People's Orthodox Alarm - that growth comes, that we go out to markets, that we do things. Eventually, nothing comes. Today's publications - daily are these, but I will only tell you about one today - say that more than 30% of the stores of Athens' commercial and historic centre are closed. Roads that used to be blown from commercial and economic life, now is an orchestra. The remaining stores see the various Ruviks and other solidaritys, your friends, breaking them, burning them and doing nothing at all. There is not a resolution for shopkeepers, nor any solidarity! Nothing at all! We read that tens of thousands, apparently, of Greeks will not be able to go to the nurseries in September, because it is not enough - as you say - to the NRP funds. At the same time, various NSRF programmes are being introduced, which many have nothing to do with primary production or growth, and they are being made easily with regard to other programmes of the order of 100,000 euros. We have read - and the articles and decisions on the Internet and in the newspapers have come out - that Mrs Gerovasili's diagnostic centre, where I now think she is her son in charge, took around 99,900 euros from the ESRB. So you say that growth comes and at the same time you haven't legislated a bad business bank account. The vast majority of the left-wing professionals owe everywhere and with mathematical accuracy the money they enter - because, as you do now, all transactions will be automatic in the short term through banks - will not be able to use them for their work. They will be seized by anyone, with particular ease, as is the case so far. And then you have the nerve to talk about growth and say that you will fight tax evasion when all this happens. In fact, you are pushing everyone into illegal - inside or out of import - by saying that you will fight tax evasion with the lottery. In other words, millions of Greek citizens, whom you make a real bleed, will enter some lotion to earn some funny things. We are talking about "seriousness" and "seriousness" throughout all its greatness. At the same time, you are bringing us here an amendment to ELSTAT and Mr Georgiou, which you wanted to hang in the Goude, although in the end you were talking about another wig, when you referred to as 'God'. That's how your actions show. You were probably referring to the cooking utensil to make some garlic, because all your words were air words. Suddenly, Mr. Georgiou, who was one of the greatest enemies to SYRIZA, the ANELs and many others, pays him all the costs of the Greek State, to which you have expelled him well or badly, it doesn't matter. We say that justice cannot be ruled out or someone, whether or not the EBRD has compromised the evidence. If we cannot reach a serious conclusion, a real conclusion on this very serious problem! The fact is that the one you blamed him for the worst, now you tell him "we will pay you all the costs, no matter what happens, and you will leave unmistakable". Of course, all of this is done with the necessary push, "switching" of the European Union, which hits the bourgeoisie and you dance, as the Roma people are dancing at different festivals throughout Greece and in the Balkans. The size of hypocrisy and your sublime is seen in another amendment. Once again there is an extension of fiscal and insurance information for the Congregation of Music. This is why the Congregation of Music - as many other things as you did - now not only did you vote to incur its closest EUR 200 million debts to the Greek State - you voted for this - but you also give continuous extensions to tax and insurance information so that you can go and make your central committees, go there and sell seaweed for silk ribbons. We heard the Special Speaker of the Independent Greeks say that the same thing was done about the Hellenic Defence Systems. Truly, is it the same thing that the Defence Systems, which we must at all costs keep alive, because that is how we defend the country's defence, with the Concert Hall of Music, of the few cultures that have now been going for decades and enjoyed it at the expense of the rest of the Greek people? Oh, no! Oh, no! Oh, no! You're hypocrites! You are also bringing us another amendment to the Nightmare Parking. The pity of all her majesty! Here we have a lot of questions, too. Yes, the "Stavros Niarchos" Cultural Foundation is a great institution. Tens of thousands of Greek citizens who see their neighborhoods salted, alienated by illegal immigrants, criminals and cannot go to a playground of their neighborhood, go to a place that is really oasis. Suddenly, then, in this area, where there is no room outside of the institution to park or bike, you now say you'll put a ticket to his parking lot. That's a nice piece of cheese! And we don't know what else he can follow. Mr Toska's amendment also came somewhere, which has some positive issues for the police. However, in order for the tens of thousands of Greek policemen to see what is happening, the same amendment equates issues of police officers with issues of illegal immigrants. If we do not vote on it, the bad golden people will come out and say that 'no, they have not voted on the amendment on police issues'! Now say a few things about the economy. We see the honourable Minister here, we see people educated, trained, but who do not, in fact, do much. As far as the question of evidence is concerned, I will say: Since you are looking to apply a tax system to evidence and eliminate tax evasion from this section, you could very well apply what is being applied in several countries of the world, where someone has their incomes, minus their expenses, whatever they may be. That is to say, all the evidence is to be deducted and at the end what remains to be taxed by a fair system. If it is someone who lives on Nisyro or at the border, have a lower tax rate if someone has three, four, five children, has a lower tax rate, if one belongs to a particular category, if one is an AME or something else, have a lower tax rate and so on. But you're not doing any of this. Instead, you are applying practices that literally dismantle them all. You've even put a ranch on the wheelchair benefits. They will be regarded as income and they will be charged with a contribution of solidarity. We're talking about incredible things about a crook! You do not know one day what you are voting against the next day and the other bill that comes. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] At the same time, we have a stop to tax evasion, chasing some waffles in people. You would also read that a musician was arrested - who had participated in a video game - who played somewhere - I think on the beach in Thessaloniki - because he was making income illegally. Another one was arrested, he says, because he was selling watermelons and melons, some unfortunate family man, who, and illegal man being, should put him last on the list, because the very, very large fish you haven't touched and, from what we see, you have no intention of touching them now or giving them abduction of sins with alpha or beta. If there is not a highly competitive tax and insurance environment, really, who do you think will come to Greece? No one comes to invest unless he is spoken, as in the case of the Greek, the 'COSCO', the airports and elsewhere, which you legislate solely on their own merits and no one else. Who's coming? It will easily go next door to Bulgaria, go to Romania, go to Albania, go to Croatia, go to Malta, go to Luxembourg. Besides, in the globalised economy, which you love and want and live, it is very easy for anyone to leave. If you don't make a really competitive environment to bring everyone here, you won't do anything. You're gonna make a hole in the water. If this year, with the new and the most barbarous tax measures, you will get some who have not been able to do so, in one, two years, they will also leave the remaining. So they will either kill themselves or go abroad if you do not do a series of simple actions, which have nothing to do with exiting or not from the euro, it is not about our stay in the European Union. After all, candy and pepper that we are being imposed by the European Union or by free trade, we cannot do anything, because a car is being applied, such as the wild car tax, because it has revenue and you are not interested in fines paid in the European Union. However, you do not do so for a number of other products manufactured or produced in Greece at the expense of imported products. Instead, you're doing the opposite. A special levy on wine, on beer, on whatever is made here at the expense of those imported here. We see the phenomenon of the only processes which have a relative development in exporting activities, with whatever problems they have, because the game is also unequal here. The Greek winemaker, the Greek producer, the Greek manufacturer also faces the limitation of capital controls and all other problems, unlike its competitors from abroad, who are literally doing and operating in a much better tax, economic environment. It is certain that, whatever you vote today, with whatever we vote next week - you will probably vote for it, because you promised us that you would bring many amendments, much more, we see next week being like the volumes of the Golden Guide, the amendments in relation to the two, three bills that will come, certainly irrelevant to the bills - you will try to pass anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u29	Please, please, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u30	I shall conclude, Mr President. We're here. We have voted for a large part of the Greek people to tell you, to judge you and to fight for lawfulness in any way. This is what the Greek people have given us. We are the third political force, whatever you do in polling and in everything, and it seems that the future for us, despite persecution, will be much better than yours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u31	Minister, are you ready for the legislature or should I give the floor and talk later?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u32	I'll talk later.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, there has been a change in the Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks and, instead of Mr Papachristopoulos, Mr Lazarides will speak, whom I call on Vima. We will close the speeches of the Parliamentary Representatives with Mr Manda. Here, Mr Lazarides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Once again and what we didn't hear here. We heard about liars, about thieves. But, let's see, the liars and the thieves on which benches are sitting? I guess the counterpopulation benches are sitting. For liars and thieves are the ones who stole the money of the Greek people in the Bay of the Stock Exchange, they are the ones who did all these "sea-sea-sauces", all these armaments scandals, which are constantly revealed by this government, the scandals with health. These are the thieves. This government has not handled such things. If that's possible! On the other hand, let us not forget PASOK's "leaf is" which defied the Greek people's vote in 2009. Then there were no money, he claimed other things. The New Democracy then did the same with the two "Zapopeia" and the eighteen points and with "no sin". Anyway. The Greek people and memory have a crisis. It is clear that Opposition is completely embarrassed because all its opposition papers have been burned. Where he bet has been exposed and lost. Let us not forget, ladies and gentlemen, that this country has been destroyed by these two parties. These two destroyed her. The debt at 120% didn't do that. They took it. Then, with the snatching of the vote, the debt was taken to 180%. They were so capable. I mean, it's the definition of incompetence. Two hundred and fifty - two thousand businesses were closed and are now, supposedly, crying over the shed milk and talking about the middle class. But the middle class is these two hundred and fifty-two thousand businesses, which they sent to the aggregations of the parishes, to the aggregations of the municipalities. These are the two hundred and fifty-two thousand businesses and the middle class. They sent operations abroad. I heard a colleague earlier - I do not remember if he was said yesterday or today - who said about business abroad. These foreign operations, ladies and gentlemen, have been banned by these two parties. They were launched in the 1990s by the Simitis government when it said that we were going to conquer the Balkans. We must not forget that. He was subsidising the Greek companies. We lived on Macedonia. The crafts, everyone, and they invested in Bulgaria and Skopje and Albania. We said: “What are they? Is it possible for the Greek Government to do so?" And yet, the Simitis government did it. Recently - in 2012 or 2013 - we also had another great loss on Macedonia with 'BIOHALCO', which was a loss on Macedonia's workforce - in Thessaloniki, namely - but a loss on the national economy on the other hand, because 'BIOHALCO', as you know, was 10% of the country's exports with 2.3 billion turnover. The Samara - Venizelos government banned it abroad and declared a tax office in Belgium. So all they do are hypocritical and try to bet on a loss of memory. But the Greek people have a memory. They decreased GDP by 25% in five years. They melted one third of the Greeks. There is not one positive indicator in the five years of the crisis. We left them behind the forty-five years that they ruled and destroyed the country. We are now talking about the five years of the crisis. There is not one positive indicator to show, contrary to the present government. Let me remind you of something else, ladies and gentlemen: that in 2014 the Samara-Venizelos government was so capable that it escaped. After they failed to get the evaluation, they accelerated the election of the President of the Republic by three months, to report as little as possible. So, they escaped without getting the review. Let us now see what this government has done and which has been embarrassed: it has closed two assessments and even the second one, the last one, the recent one, with praise, ladies and gentlemen. Everyone accepts this in Greece and abroad. The Stock Exchange isn't forgetting it's on a steady rise. The unemployment of these two parties took it in 2009 to 8% and reached 28%. That's their ability. The ability of these two parties is the one: from 8% to 28%. In other words, half the Greeks worked and the other half were in unemployment. That's what happened. We are now talking about flexible forms of work. Who was that, ladies and gentlemen, who legislated the elastic forms of work? Can we remember this for a while? In 2010 he was with the government of George Papandreou. They legislated the elastic forms of work. What did they do, despite having in their legal arsenal the elastic forms of work? They launched unemployment at 28%. And now they're talking about flexible forms of work. They legislated it. I'm going on, ladies and gentlemen. This unemployment was received by this government at 28%. She put her down to 21%. I would now like to read you a piece, a few series, from the exhibition of the National Bank of Greece. I read it to you just as the National Bank of Greece says: "According to the empirical estimates of the EIB's Economic Analysis Directorate, the National Bank of Greece, in the key scenario, where productive investment is projected to increase by 8.5% per annum in 2017-2019, while in line with the growth rate of GDP of 2% per annum, there will be two hundred thousand new jobs in the same period until the end of 2019, leading the unemployment rate below 18.5% by 21% today. In a less favourable scenario, because the National Bank also looks at the worst scenario, ‘where the average annual growth in investment is limited to 3% and goes hand in hand with a GDP growth rate of 1% per annum, the employment growth will be seventy thousand jobs lower in the three-year period 2017-2019, with the unemployment rate remaining at 20% in 2019’. Therefore, even the report of the National Bank of Greece confirms the government's expectations and positive course. And tourism breaks down all the records. Agriculture, ladies and gentlemen, is coming back and again with the entry of young farmers into production, with all these new programmes, which the government has put on the table and has managed to work in cooperation with the European Union. He's going to say we're on a positive path. Another important thing, too, which this government has done, is that we started in Cyprus, ladies and gentlemen, research into hydrocarbons. Contrary to the previous governments, which were sufficeful of the plight of the Turks, we should not mock the Turks in any way - this government, in compliance with the rules of international law, has proceeded with the hydrocarbons. International houses are constantly upgrading the country. What happened in the years they were ruling? We only heard negative comments from all these houses. And the country's exit to the markets, to be very saddened by the counterpopulation, was a success, as much as now they are trying to alter numbers and so on. In fact yesterday, a PASOK colleague said: "You know, in absolute size the percentages may have been less now than the Samara - Venizelos government, but then compared with the German spread was less." These are alchemys, ladies and gentlemen. What matters is how much money comes out of the country's fund when the bond expires. What this government has achieved will make less money than the country's fund. This is important and not comparison with another spread. The Samara - Venizelos government bonds in absolute sizes, with what the current government has achieved, will also be paid later and by about half a point, i.e. 0.5%, less. So he lost? Wasn't that a government success? Clearly it was a success. In particular, the interest rate stood at 4.3%. In April 2014, the government then, before closing the review - why it was unable to close it, as we said earlier - had received 4.8%, while the current government achieved 4.3%. Watch out, now, five days after 4.8% in April 2014, the spreads were launched at 558 base points. That's the reality. So this 4.8% went to 5.6%, and, look out, five days later. We're talking about five-year bonds so far. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] The ten-year bond - a bit of your tolerance, Mr President, please -...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u35	Mr. Lazarides, we'll show tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u36	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u37	But you will allow me to say that you must also speak about the bill. Because I can't give you another time for the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u38	Sure. We are also making an assessment, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u39	Today we have legislative work.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u40	I'll be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u41	You have three more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr President. The ten-year Samara - Venizelou bond reached 9%. Specifically 8.94%. Is it for anyone to be proud of? I don't think so. In 2009, when the PASOK government took over, the Papandreou government, the country's governance, the spreads of Greece were lower than Germany. This is what the PASOK did, of course, and then the New Democracy. They had the slogan at the time, "the Titanic who walks round the rocks" and so forth. That was their national policy. Today, Siomple, their good friend, after the government's success in exit, stated: "It is an important step that Greece's exit into the markets." Who? Shoeble, their friend. ‘New York Times’, ‘BLOOMBERG’. The magazine 'SPIEGEL' even says 'conversion to the issue of solvency' for the country, which this government has achieved. I won't give you any more time with this. I would like to say that the Greek people now know that. He sees what he's been through, who's responsible for this situation, and he has memory and judgment. So no one can deceive him. We are positive in this bill, the Independent Greeks, as our rapporteur said, and we support it. I would like to say a few words - less than a minute - on the amendment tabled by three Members, Mr Skouricos, Mr Saridis and I, on the amendment of a general number of 1170 and a specialist of 200. ‘The provisions promoted are dictated by the need to formulate a uniform and in accordance with the special constitutional regime for the immovable property of the sacred monasteries of Mount Athos, inside and outside, and in general to safeguard the necessary institutional framework that preserves the archaic, special and privileged status of Mount Athos, as protected by the special provisions of the Constitution, Article 105. Under the applicable regulatory provisions of Article 3(6)(b) of Law 4223/2013 and Article 52(1) of Law 4447/2016, the sacred monasteries of Mount Athos are exempted from the single property tax and the obligation to submit statements of real estate of an E9 form for immovable property in and out of Mount Athos, with reference to their ancient privileged status, as expressly and in full protected by Article 105 of the Constitution. It is recalled that Article 105 of the Constitution also mentioned exemptions for large real estate tax, see. 23(l) L.2459/1997 A17.’ Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to support this amendment because, in supporting the amendment, we support Orthodoxy, Mount Athos, the Monasteries of Mount Athos. We're positive for this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u43	Thank you. I will give the floor to Mr Papadimitriou to present some legislative improvements which will be tabled and taken by colleagues. Then Mr. Toska, who has spoken of a legislative improvement since yesterday, but who has not testified to it in writing. Mr. Papadimitriou, here you go. I don't give you time, I guess you'll be short.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u44	Thank you very much, Mr President. Legislative improvement has to do with Article 57 of the draft law, which is deleted, and so the other articles are renumbered. The next article, which is Article 57, concerns the amendment of the composition of the Interministerial Committee on Strategic Investments. The next article, Article 58, regulates the holding of elections to the boards of directors in the chambers. The final draft is submitted to the General Secretariat of the Government and will follow the parliamentary procedure. Finally, with the new Article 59 we are seeking to direct the Pan-Hellenic Lamia report, in which no one is currently serving and we are trying to get two employees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u45	Mr. Toska, you also have the floor to talk about your legislative improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. I had already mentioned yesterday in support of the amendment, but I had not tabled the legislative improvement in Amendment No 1153/184 in writing. I'm filing it now. This improvement concerns the period of application of this amendment, which runs until 9 September of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u47	Mrs. Papanatsiou, would you like the floor to talk about legislative improvements?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u48	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u49	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u50	First of all, I must say that I accept the two legislative improvements, those of Mr Papadimitriou and Mr Toska. I would like to present the two amendments which had not been tabled yesterday. It is the general number 1171 and special 201, with which the President of the Parliament and the Minister of Finance opens a distinct account with the name "Volumes of the Greeks" under the heading "K 200-Greek State - Collection of Payments". The President of the Parliament shall be responsible for administering the above distinct account under the name ‘Volumes of the Greeks’ exclusively by means of the relevant official bodies, in accordance with the powers laid down in the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament. For the proposed provision with a general number of 1172 and a special number 202 relating to the Real Estate Transfer Register, a Real Estate Transfer Register shall be established in the General Secretariat of the Ministry of Finance, which will collect data on real estate transfers made from 1 March 2017. Such information may be collected by the Independent Authority of Public Revenue, the relevant ceremonial offices and notaries. The purpose of the register is to draw statistical conclusions on the purchase of real estate and to monitor the formation of that market. Part of these elements can, however, be made public with a view to ensuring the anonymity of the parties involved, in order to allow any interested party to obtain a general view on the property market for information purposes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Minister. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Christos Mandas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr President. It is not the happiest thing to talk in Parliament's Chamber while three parties have left. I want to write that down. We need to see a little bit of things, because I think, ladies and gentlemen, that this bill, which is a good bill - and I will say in particular how this position is documented - has taken a long time to talk about it, and I think that precisely the procedure that we decided yesterday afternoon to talk about the amendments, has served precisely to continue the debate and to exhaust all the margins, in order to reach a conclusion, with each one's political views and approaches, on the issues of the bill. In particular, therefore, for the Party of Officers, which has really become unrecognised, I would say, both in its behaviour and in its way and in its institutional role, it is absolutely pretext that ten amendments were taken from yesterday evening until this morning and that is why it is leaving. I think that the amendments incorporated in the bill, six or seven, if I am not mistaken, were already presented by the committee procedure. The other amendments were presented and discussed yesterday and some other amendments were presented today. So there was all the time to discuss these issues. That is why I consider that to be absolutely pretext for doing so. I wonder how powers such as those of Officerial Opposition are being lured, but I would also say that the KIC, from Potami, which from the first moment - perhaps for other reasons, I really cannot understand it - left the process and took the ball a little and others, trying to create an issue where there is no one in this particular bill. I do not claim that we operate in a way that we really are happy about it. We know that too many of the processes we are following are not what we would like. It's not. We also need to take steps to correct difficulties and failures in the process, so as to ensure what is the key, namely adequate democratic dialogue within Parliament's process. We must make corrections to this, no doubt. However, for this draft law, I think that this departure is totally pretextful - because there are many others that show this - the impasse and embarrassment that is at the moment, and especially the Dedicated Opposition. I say this, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, because in the end the political forces with their departure are first and foremost the Community directive. objectively, even if they have declared themselves in favour of etc., they shall not vote for it at the end of the day. They do not vote for a Community directive, namely, which extends the automatic exchange of information to combat tax fraud and tax evasion and aggressive tax planning. On the basis of the previous Community directive, I think it is moving in a positive direction. They do not vote that the groupings of multinational enterprises should report on the amount of revenues, the profit before income tax, the income tax paid and the income tax due. They do not even vote for doubling as was finally done, because that is where we are allowed, if I understand it, Minister, on the basis of the data we have, namely doubling to ten and twenty thousand euros of sanctions when these obligations are violated. They do not vote for a positive correction which we have made, and which by mistake we have not done to bring feed back to low VAT, seeds and fixed flowers that we have heard here and the representatives of operators. They do not vote for the existence of an improper 1,250 euros in the electronic wallet. They do not vote on the amendment on draws for lottery which is a positive arrangement. They do not vote for the amendment on automatic reimbursement of income tax and VAT, when it comes to an amount of up to EUR 10,000. In other words, they do not vote at the end of the day for a number of measures and positive provisions. They do not objectively vote for them and many other provisions which do not exist for all of them - one, but I think they are indicative. They do not even vote for real estate granted to local government agencies and public bodies that are positive measures. All this has a positive dimension. They shall not vote objectively with their departure. I should also like to say that they deprive Parliament of a democratic dialogue which could have developed and corrected or put further issues in a positive direction for the arrangements that we have brought today. I should like to close with this, because I would like to say a few other things in my time, Mr President. It is well known - the Minister said so - that the Ministry of Certain Arrangements wanted to bring them into a separate bill. Because the House closes and there are urgent arrangements in this, there was no time to come to a separate bill. We have the facts in Lesvos, Kos, as well as others that had to be regulated. I therefore repeat that, for this bill, I think it is totally pretextful and absolutely not to withdraw. In any case, many of them would be voted on at the end. Totally, I think they would vote for the bill. They didn't want this image to appear. I guess. I don't know. He'll show the next process. But I would like to make a reference, ladies and gentlemen, by closing my speech in the political context, to what is happening and is being shared in the big picture on the basis of the latest developments in the current situation. Yesterday the answers and positions of Mr Tsakalotou, Mr Juliarakis and of course Mrs Papanatsiou, who is here throughout the bill, showed that the positive fact - all the political forces recognized it - of the country's exit on the markets, this move made a few days ago, there is no scope to question it. They really are misery trying to make various comparisons - let me accept that they were legitimate - on how the exit in 2014 was and what the exit is today. Comparing, in my opinion, things completely disparate, I think they do not help, they do not contribute to what the country needs: to stick to the country's real problems. It cannot be disputed under any circumstances, ladies and gentlemen, that in these last few weeks, in the last few weeks, steps have been taken in the positive direction. Because in this reality there can be no easy serious counterpart I think that some - I am talking about some of the opposition parties and in particular about the two parties that have ruled the country for decades whole - remain stuck and committed in the past trying to compare what was, supposedly, to let the country take off at the end of 2014 and not to halt this famous course of the country to the reality as it is evolving. My impression is that, unfortunately, some parties are lined up. See today the headlines of some media. Some of these remind me of American election campaigns, the spots and images shown by the Republicans for democratics. I saw a shark today on a front page. That's what reminds me. Those who have experience with these things I suggest they see them again. They will see in the old days, in the conflicts between the Republicans and the democrats and the younger ones, exactly how the republicans characterized communists and what they used to use. We've reached that level. It is very bad to identify political forces and adopt such approaches. And one last thing, Mr President, because I will say another thing later. Everything can be said, but this "an abnormal country"? Okay, it's an abnormal country because it's a country on a schedule, but with 'non-normal government'? I think it goes beyond what can be divided into a democratic dialogue. As much as anyone is seriously trying to claim this, all that shows is that the only "normal" governments should be the governments of PASOK, New Democracy, etc., and that anyone else, through the mandate of the Greek people, has no right, allegedly, to claim and have the rule of the country. I would like to say one last thing, Mr President, and I am sorry that the time has passed. I shall refer to Article 55, which has incorporated an amendment from the Ministry of Tourism. Unfortunately, there has been no time and the opportunity to have a debate on this. Given the possibility of exceptional cases being moved abroad by the Ministry of Tourism and the EOT, respectively, I would like to say that the Presidential Decree - which I read after all, in addition to the debate we have had in the committees - which is already in place and to which this amendment is added, I think gives the opportunity to do so and to deal with the exceptional circumstances. And in that sense - we are, of course, at the last minute - I think it may be unnecessary and I would say such a provision. I tried to find Mrs. Kundura, but she was gone, and I couldn't see her. In any case, I would like to say this because it is a matter which I think we should take note of, and if something can be done about it, we should do so at the last minute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u53	Well, we're starting now the seconds of the rapporteurs and speakers. On the basis, now, of the picture in plenary, Mr Pavlides, Mr Koutsoukos, Mr Germenis, Dimitris Kammenos and Mr Katsiantonis will speak in turn. Under the Rules of Procedure you have seven and a half minutes. Unfortunately, we have the luxury of time due to the absence of the parties, which is not something pleasant. No one has his opinion, of course, because I heard Mr. Manda. I will give every rapporteur ten minutes and every speaker. If you're fast, even better.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u54	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u55	What do you want, Mr. Kutsuko?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u56	Mr President, before we go any further, because first of all we shall refer to the amendments, I would like to say that the Minister has not put up with the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u57	Wait a minute, I thought it had happened since yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u58	It hasn't been done, and we want to know.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u59	Are you ready, Mrs Papanatsiou, to make a first position on the parliamentary amendments? Mr Koutsoukos is right, so that colleagues can have a picture.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u60	First of all, I would like to say that 1152 has been accepted by Mr. Chakalotos...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u61	Just a minute, Ms. Papanaceu. Ladies and gentlemen, take this House before you, you find the number that the Minister says and mark next door, so that no mistake can then be made on the lists.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u62	Mr President, there is no House. That is why I want the Minister to explain to us who she accepts.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u63	But don't you have the amendments? On each amendment, Mr Kutsukouko, the general number of these is written, the special minister and who signs it. You probably think a single list. Okay, it'd be easy. All right, look at them slower, Minister, to find them. Ms. Papanaceu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u64	As far as the amendment is concerned, 1152 and 183, by Mr Katsiki, it was accepted by Mr Tsakalotos. It's about the JEPs. That's all we're done with. I'm moving on to the rest. For the amendment with a general number 1150 and a special number 182, by Mr Koutsoukos, on the granting of a property to the Municipality of Ilias, I was also mentioned when I presented the ministerial amendments. We're not negative. There have been movements from the ETA for part of the property. There's the mayor's application for the entire property. The services will examine it. They will give us their views and we will have the answer in due course. For the amendment to the general number 1166 and a special item 196, by Mr Ephremidis, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Ephremidis, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Ephremidis, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Pinheiro, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Pinheiro, on behalf of the Rainbow Group, Mr Pinheiro and Mr Pinheiro, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Pinheiro, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party, Mr Pinheiro, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Pinheiro, on behalf of the Green Group in the European Parliament. Theocharis, Panagoulis, Karras, Markos, Grand Economics, which deals with the exception from the calculation of the income Mr Balaura's amendment is also appropriate, with a general number of 1169 and a special number of 199. It concerns the same subject, the provision of supplementary insurance from the mutual funds. We both see them very positively. We want to make them acceptable, either at the same time or at the same time, because they serve the same purpose. We believe, however, that improvements still need to be made, which at the moment we are not ready to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u65	Don't make an assessment. In this respect, don't waste time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u66	And Amendment No 1167, and Amendment No 197, again to the Rules of Procedure. Theocharis, Panagoulis, Karras, Marcus, Grand Eminence, we see her positive. However, we expect to see some more evidence. The same applies to Amendment No 1170 and to Amendment No 200, which deals with certain arrangements for the sacred monasteries of Mount Athos. We see it, in principle, positive.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u67	It's the one Mr. Lazarides developed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u68	That's right. We're waiting for some information from the services. If we do so today, we will answer you, otherwise at a next meeting.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u69	Therefore, Mr Kutsukouko, from what we have all understood, an amendment, by Mr Katsiki, was accepted, with a general number of 1122, and a specialist of 183. Here, Mr. Pavlides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u70	First of all, I think it is a pity that various opposition parties left. I think that does not honour the parliamentary procedure. I would like to believe that he has served other purposes despite the real procedure of the bill, since there has been an exaggeration of the assessment and assessment of the amendments. There has been an exaggeration, which has nothing to do with the intention, neither the government nor the parliament, to have such anomaly and to speak now in a Parliament in which there are already three, four parties, if I am not mistaken. There has been time and it has been said that although there was a proposal that we should finish yesterday, given these amendments, we decided to talk today and to take as much time as is necessary to have an extensive debate on the amendments. Secondly, there is a mistaken assessment of these amendments. The total number of amendments, ten, eleven, relates to the corresponding, the relevant Ministry and six, seven to amendments tabled by Members. The amendments by ministries, apart from the Ministry responsible, are not so many. The majority, in other words more than half of the amendments, are amendments by the respective Ministry, as well as amendments by the parliamentary committee responsible. So given that, I think that there has been a lot of smoke for nothing, especially from parties and representatives of parties, who have been used to us in the past to rule through legislative acts and with urgent bills in the middle of the night. In that sense, I will not comment anymore. The fact that today's bill is being tabled and debated in a period of time, just before the summer end of the House, I think it makes it understandable that there are several final dates on which many ministries must respond immediately so that there are no various administrative and service irregularities. In this sense, the large number of amendments also have such an explanation. We must not raise matters of another kind, which - I say again - do not think they are helping the bill, especially a bill that is positive. The positive nature of the bill was also confirmed in the previous debate in committees and in the public consultation of operators. Representatives of producer bodies and self-government bodies came and were placed, who assessed the positive features of the bill and were positive about it. I shall be brief, which is why I said that I will not need that much time. I think it has become the least for the bill in its second part, which concerns various tax regulations. There has been an extensive debate, which is why the withdrawal of Members unfairs all this preparation of the bill to the committees and to the plenary. There was a great debate on the VAT reduction in agricultural livestock products and on the overall agri-foodstuffs activity. It is a request and a procedure that will give a breath to development activity in the primary sector, as is the exemption beyond the end of a trade in accommodation, which has more than one seat. They are housed and act in separate areas, although they operate under the rules of a single licence. The discharge of the ENPI - as we owe - to the inhabitants of Lesvos and Kos is the least we could do for these tested local societies after the last earthquakes. Another important point of the bill is the reimbursement of sums received of the infringements to uninsured vehicles, for those who paid the mistakes before the end of the extension of 14 July and the drastic reduction of the infringements for those who did not comply with them after 14 July. Also very important - and I would like to stress this - are concessions and transfers of ownership, for the second time in legislation, in exchange for local government and public bodies. I think it gives a great breath to the local communities and the productive needs of these local communities, which are dominated by educational, cultural or other reasons, such as health reasons. And I think it is a request that has been claimed and stressed by local government for years. It is very good that this government is coming to meet these demands, mainly by giving the local communities a big development breath. We know very well how important it is in small municipalities and in small areas to give such large breaths of decentralised and developmental perception. In the first part of the bill there was a great talk about compliance with Directive 881 of 2016 and the need in general for an exchange of information at both European and global level, especially in relation to multinational companies' groups in the great battle against tax evasion and tax fraud. And I think a lot has already been done in this area. I think that other legislation on similar compliances will come, and I think that we should all - regardless of compliance with a legislative framework - also have a real project production, which is now aimed at such sectors of taxation, tax evasion and tax fraud. Because I think it is a large ganger and a large black hole in the Greek economy, which, after all, covers the Greek people with their own sacrifices. It is the state's duty to respond fully, regardless of the compliance of the European directive, to its productive work around it. I call on the House to vote in favour of the bill. I believe that we have wronged the entire debate with the departures of colleagues and their respective parties. I think the debate was conducted in a very good climate in both committees and the positive nature of the bill was confirmed by public consultation. The fact that these amendments have been, once again, relates mainly to the time period during which the bill is submitted, which, objectively speaking, has also led to a number of final dates. There have also been several proposals for amendments by fellow Members, or by individual colleagues, and so we should talk about all of this. Time has been enough to make this debate and from there on, I do not think it could give birth to any other perception. It is a pity that a large part of the colleagues are missing, especially in a bill with such positive features. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u71	Mr. Xydakis, would you like to say something for two or three minutes about Article 57? Mr. Kutsuko, it's in connection with something Mr. Mandash said, and I'll give you the floor. Mr. Xydakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u72	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is an amendment from the Ministry of Tourism concerning the possibility of going beyond the current Presidential Decree for officials outside the Greek Tourism Organisation. In accordance with the proposed amendment, it is possible to propose that the Minister and the officials of the Ministry of Tourism be able to take exceptionally and in excess of the functions of the Staff Board to meet certain needs. I believe that because we do not have in-depth knowledge and detailed support for this issue, we must avoid circumventing a presidential decree, a legislation governing the operation of many public bodies, not circumventing the self-interest of the Greek Tourism Organization. After all, there are few of the officials of the Ministry of Tourism and I do not know whether they have the know-how and the possibilities to respond to positions of responsibility abroad, to an agency such as the EOT established by the War. So we must not hurry and ask the Minister to withdraw it and to bring us more documented.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u73	As far as I understand it, you disagree on the substance of the amendment. Mr Mandas said that he considered it unnecessary, because in his view he was covered by the Presidential Decree. It's two different approaches.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u74	I agree with Mr. Mada. The Presidential Decree covers exactly. I say that the limits must be exhausted.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u75	Madam Minister, let us know before the end of the meeting - it is a government decision - why here the Bureau's colleagues should know this earlier than the end, so that we know what we are going to vote on Article 57. Mr Koutsouko - I have seen you for a long time without your crutches and passing through - you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President. I will try to share my time to make a few political comments, based on what has been said before, to say about some articles in the bill and also to say about the amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, it was a very interesting political debate, as Mr Tsakalotos has a special art to charge it and when the difficult ones come to'strength through the engagement'. Yesterday Mr Chakalotos, not much or much, told us not to be so concerned with getting out on the market, that is air, it is foam and what remains is the strategy. And when Mr. Maniotis asked him some difficult questions, at first he was irritated, in a way that he often does when he encountered difficulties and finally tried to discredit the questions, saying that all of this was part of an effort to lead the Central Left. We know that Mr Tsakalotos is anxious about developments in the centre-left, because he is concerned about whether he will stay on the margin - as he is sure to say - when the centre-left is reconstructed, through a regeneration process from the uterus of the social base, because the leadership he serves came with a ring! Mr. Alavanos gave Mr. Tsipras a ring! They're away from society and that's why they're worried. But what is important is what Mr Tsakalots insisted on, namely the exit strategy. Because Mr Juliarakis, who followed after that, said mildly - I must note - that you were both successful on the markets and today. So Mr Chakalotos' persistence in the strategy is about how this strategy is being served and how this is being undermined. So Mr. Tsakalotos and the pluss undermined the exit strategy in 2014. That's why he didn't keep up. I would like to remind you of the threats to Members who would vote for the President of the Republic, not to go to an early elections. I would like to remind you that the leader of the co-chairman party, together with Mr Tsipras, has made the suspicions about 'irreversible' Members. It is well known, ladies and gentlemen, the 'Heikh GATT'. Under these circumstances, therefore, the government, which had a strategy of exiting with the credit line and the closure of the evaluation of the second programme, came to you, lost two and a half years and now trying to find ourselves where we were in 2014. Therefore, in view of what Mr Tsakalotos has already said here in Parliament about sacred Augustine and repentance, he must first repent and then come here to talk. We now come to the draft legislation and amendments. I understand the position of Mr Manda, who regrets that we are discussing in the absence of three parties. But is it the three parties that left? I, Mr President, do not want to judge each party's tactics. I understand it. It is the government itself's fault in the methodology that has been followed, because we had the bill in committee a week. He could table amendments to discuss them in committee, to listen to bodies - I, for example, raised a matter for the hearing of Chambers - but he finally followed this tactic, which we all denounced together. Therefore, instead of always regretting Mr Mandash, let him do something as Secretary of the Parliamentary Group, which was also a parliamentary representative, so that this disgrace does not go on again. Because it's raining and the government thinks it's singing! Mr Mandais must take the example of our own practices in the past and of our presidencies in the House, which have had to have ministers take the amendments back, rather than be crying from the Step and be sorry. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] And, in any case, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, instead of commenting in this way, it would be better to stand up at some point to be informed. You have become 'yes men'. Don't cause. On the one hand, you recognize that this is not right and on the other you are causing from above. I shall make a few comments, ladies and gentlemen, on the articles in the bill, because I have said, Mr President, that I will share the time. We will insist that the government should return to the irresponsible of EUR 1,500 and the irresponsible professional account. That is why we are not going to vote on Rule 11. You're saying that the discrepancy is expanding into electronic wallets. Don't spit the ass tail! That's just the thing about the implosion. We will insist, despite the fact that we will vote on the provisions on real estate, that this is a strategy of panic and has a character of privileged relations, because now local communities understand that property will go to the superstate and you run to unload it from the state and give it to local government. We have said, however, that getting rid of them is not right for you to give it to another government, namely the Ministries. They have to go to self-government, and I have brought the example of the "Stage of Peace and Friendship". He must go to Piraeus or to the region by means of a programme agreement. I did not hear anything about the remarks I made about the Legal Council of the State. Why should the president appoint the lawyers and not be appointed by the Code of Lawyers? Comments were also made on the new recruitments to the ERC. The College of Economic Experts has worked out all these years and took part in the negotiations. But here in the House and in an opaque process? Finally, with regard to Article 43, which I have made observations from the committee, I have seen a legislative improvement that excludes milk in the OTAs. Mr President, instead of being unhealthy - because milk has this meaning - we will be giving money. The uniforms of the EKA rescuers will be cut off, Minister, after the benefits are cut? I've put it down, and I haven't got any answers. As we will also insist that they cannot - I am referring to Article 49 - ministries which have the main responsibility of following the legal path by posting the commitment of expenditure and so on, coming back and asking for legalisation. I now come to some of the amendments. We told Mr Papadimitriou that, because he did not bring his amendment to the electoral system in the chambers in time, we would call the Chambers to tell us their views. Mr Michalos sent a letter and we made sure that we contacted a number of chambers. We will vote for this regulation because it is improved, but Mr Papadimitriou has a huge responsibility, and the government as a whole, because two and a half years now has not brought about the changes to be made to the Chambers. In addition, Mr Papadimitriou brought us the strengthening of the Lamia report. We all understand why he did it, because yesterday he was the Prime Minister there, who, or rather, the twitter operators also raised the point, that we are updating the Lamia Report. Well, haven't you been to the rest of Greece, Minister? Don't you know that in Heraklion, there's a lot of farm food exposure going on? What is happening in Achaea and other areas, in Argolida, in Elia? So why don't you bring in an institutional framework for these local reports that stimulates the region's economy, promote products, lead to synergies, have a legislative framework, to strengthen them - and do so, because the Prime Minister was going yesterday, only for Lamia? Also, once again an extension to the tax information of the Congregation of the Congregation of Music. Mr President, because I know your sensitivities, we have voted for an extension several times and the government tells us that the resolution plan will proceed. I would like to remind you - and there are colleagues here who remember it - that when the government made the Congregation of Music, I had expressed serious objections, since I happened to be the rapporteur for my resignation. And I had committed Mr Baltas, who was sitting there in the ministerial chairs, to tabling the balance sheets, because in a transparent way this process of staunchization was done, that is, without knowing how all the previous administrations went economically. I would like to inform you that the balance sheets have not been submitted to the House, that is to say we do not know who is responsible for this management which leads us every time to give exceptional tax information. She's responsible and exposed to the government. And I don't think - to move on, because time is passing - that it's a serious thing to eat our time here to see how the Stavros Niarchos Foundation will get revenue from the rental of the parking lot. I think we have much more serious things to deal with. For the amendment of the Ministry of Rural Development, I would like the House to know that in October, in my timely question, Mr Apostolos replied to me that he would extend the rental contracts for the parcels of Lake Agulinitsa, Muria and other areas of the public, so that farmers would know the new growing season that they would make use of the parcels. He now brought the regulation and kept people insecurity all this year. Mr Tsakalotos yesterday presented Amendment 1174, allowing credit institutions to take over privileged shares on the basis of which the recapitalisation had been carried out in 2008. And he explained to us that there is a consultation. I have good faith in what Mr Chakalotos said to us - I am not SYRIZA nor am I going to be - that this will benefit both the banking institutions and the Greek public. So I intend to support it. However, let us not forget that Amendment No 1174 has four articles. For example, he has an article on the excess. We are opposed and are not prepared to vote on an article dealing with the excess. So I call on you, Minister, as you have done with Mr Papadimitriou's amendment, which you have divided into four articles, and this amendment which has four independent topics being divided into four specific articles, so that at the time of the vote we can express ourselves. Because otherwise, Mr President - I should like to ask you - whether in one article in the amendment you should vote 'yes' in the other 'no' and the vote is single, what are you going to do at the end? Divided personality, obviously, cannot be. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] I conclude with the parliamentary amendments and apologise for the time. The parliamentary amendment signed by the Independent Members and supported by Mr Balauras, too, because I believe that the dividends paid by the workers' mutual funds cannot be taxed. And I'm in place now, because the Minister said he's seeing her positively. The Minister also said that he positively sees the amendment on Mount Athos Monasteries, on properties inside and outside. Be careful: to find a way to strengthen the monks, especially the poor, because they are doing work. We all recognize the work of Orthodoxy and do not recognize it, because we must photograph it next to the sacred relics or make great crosses to get votes! We recognize that because we are Christian Orthodox and support the work of Orthodoxy. But look, Minister, with the arrangement as it is introduced, you will be wrong...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u77	In fact, it is not discussed, it has not been accepted by the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u78	He said he saw her positive, and by the end of the day...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u79	Yeah, but he said no for today. Future. So he'll be back. So basically place it when it comes, if it comes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u80	Just a minute, Mr President, to...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u81	Let us listen to his opinion, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u82	Okay. For a minute, tell your opinion, but finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u83	Thank you very much, Mr President, but you understand now, as has happened...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u84	There's the possibility, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u85	So I say this: Be careful not to blame any more monks. Be careful not to blame the Church of Greece, do not blame the monasteries. I shall therefore conclude by saying that we shall vote on the directives, the Rules of Procedures, because we have a consequence of projects and reasons. SYRIZA has been mutated and we welcome him to logic, but that doesn't mean voting for what he said earlier has turned to normality. It is far too far away and the cost that he has accumulated to the Greek people with all that he has done - and as opposition and as government - is great and that is why we are not going to give him forgiveness. Thank you, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u86	I have the honour to announce the topical and urgent question report of Monday 31 July 2017. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question under number 1283/25-2017 by MP Dodecanese of the Radical Left Coalition, Elias Kamaterou, to the Minister of Tourism, on the subject: "Insert a framework for addressing the uncontrolled expansion of the phenomenon of all inclusive tourism". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 128525-7-2017 topical question of the New Democracy MP, Mr. Savvas Anastasiades, to the Minister of Health, on the operation of the New Mdytos Health Centre. 3. The question asked by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy about the coastal exclusion of Kythera and Antikythera from Piraeus, Gythio and Crete. 4. The question raised by Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos on the serious aspects of the matter of the monks in the Corinthian and Patraikos Gulf under No 1260/24-7-2017. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 1284/25-2017 topical question of the Radical Left Coalition, Maria Triantafyllou to the Minister of Tourism, concerning the Marina Messology. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 1286/25-2017 by MP Arta, New Democracy, George Stylios, to the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, entitled 'A loan of ECU 138 million for the construction of a new railway line for the construction of a new railway line. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from the 2000-2006 programming period. 3. The question asked by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the subject: "Notable problems for citizens and local authorities since the application of the laws on forest maps". 4. The question by No 1257/21-7-2017 of Independent MEP 2 of Athens Mr. Theocharis (Haris) Theocharis to the Minister of Finance concerning the taxation of public benefits and charitable institutions. 5. The question by No 1219-12-7-2017 of the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The commitments to the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the prerequisites for the evaluation without informing Parliament." 6. The question by number 1251/18-7-2017 of the F' Vice President of the Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister of Health regarding the non-payment of employees of the company "SYKOS PM". & SIA E.E.’ at Larissa University Hospital. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question asked by MP Larissa of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "No need for monitoring and evaluation of the need for EKA's means of transport and air services." 8. The 1119/3-7-2017 topical question by H' Vice-President of Parliament and Member of Parliament II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance regarding the theft of electricity. 9. The Question No 1032/16-6/2017 by H' Vice President of the Parliament and MP Mr Piraeus II of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance regarding the bet companies. 10. The Question No 1026-16-2017 by the Independent MEP Mr. Dimitrios Koukoutsis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The perspective and needs of the international airport Kalamata". 11. The Question by MP Halkidiki of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Save Vlachos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Missures of ambulances in the Halkidiki Prefecture put the lives of citizens at risk". 12. The current question by No 923/1-6/2017 of the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Following the "partition of the nation"". 13. Observations of the Court of Justice The question raised by Mr Georgios Amyras at number 931/2-6-2017, concerning the 'SIEMENS' case. 14. Observed. Under number 924/1-6/2017, the current question of the Athens Parliamentary of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Helen Zarulias to the Minister of Finance, concerning the "definition of judges in the administration of the Supreme Council". 15. The 1181/7-7-2017 topical question by MP II of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdus to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: “Taking measures in favour of the small savers who lost their money with the debt cut in 2012”. 16. Observations of the Committee of the Regions The question by number 948/6-2017 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Sakis Vardalis, on the Greek Vehicle Industry "ELVABE". 17. The 1186/10-7-2017 topical question of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Triantafylides, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The Hazard Signal emits the Thermaikos Gulf - Urgent programme of immediate active intervention". 18. Under number 1112/28-6/2017, a topical question by the Member of Parliament for the Refugee of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas to the Minister for Administrative Reconstruction, on the subject: ‘Is the digital signature to be applied as from 1 July 2017?’ REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 4557/28-03-2017 by the Independent MEP Mr. Dimitrios Koukoutsi to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Exceeding the number of legacy denominations". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by Mr Jason Fotidas to the Minister of Culture and Sports on the subject: 'Will excavations be 'bavour' this year in Ancient Eliaki?' Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Eleftherios Venizelos Chamber and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, twenty-two members of the Non-Profit Organization "Inter Alia". The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Something about the Minutes now. Because I have referred to Article 57 which has also been mentioned by Mr Xydakis and Mr Mandas, the right thing is in Article 55, and I would very much ask that the correction be made.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u87	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u88	Mr. Katsiki, I've been informed. It's not allowed. When Mr Kammenos is finished, instead of ten minutes he will speak eight minutes and give you two minutes of Mr Kammenos, talk about your amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u89	Now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u90	Not now. After Mr. Kammenos I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u91	Good, Mr. President. I'm going to the board and I'll be back.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u92	Okay, you'll keep your time and you'll be given. Mr. Germenis has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u93	Yesterday we had a bill with fifty two articles. Of these first nine articles were mentioned in a Memorandum Directive and the other forty-three were irrelevant to each other. But these are also the Memorandum of Understandings, some other are Rusphetological positions for new voters of SYRIZA with thick wages, and some other articles are earlier wrong bills, for which you are now calling to assemble uncompromised ones. Starting yesterday afternoon in plenary debate, we already had nineteen amendments, six or seven of which, if I remember correctly, had been discussed in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. Until the seven but it was my turn to speak, as a special speaker, the amendments reached twenty-one. Today we have had twenty ministerial amendments and four or five parliamentarians, which, as usual, the government is almost never accepted. So yesterday's bill of 50 articles has basically come together with a second bill. So you vote one and you get two. As far as Parliament's amendments are concerned, one has come to our attention. Indeed, we have just heard that the Minister did not accept it, but it is good to report. We are talking about the amendment tabled by the SYRIZA Squarium, the Lazarides of ANELs and the Saridis of the Centron Union. We are surprised, because it is an amendment a little ideologically 'of all things'. How now did Lazarides and the Dark One find such amendments, which we know about the taxation of the Church? We know what the positions of certain executives are. When he was opposition, that was the position of all the executives. Now some people see her as Christians and go to Easter and hold bulbs. It seems that some dealings with PASOK have not been successful and you are now turning to new partners in allies. With regard to the bill, there is a sloppiness about how you legislate. Nobody's talking about this. It has no opposite view in this Chamber. Even some time ago we also saw government officials in this Chamber disagree with some amendments and some articles that have already been tabled. So you're voting for it out of hand. You forgot, of course, when you were in the position of counterpopulation, which you yourself rightly yelled at when PASOK and New Democracy did the same. Of course you, as good students, managed to get over them. Now you also have a new fashion of amendments. In each amendment, you are also bringing unreasonable hypotheses, such as the 1153/184 amendment by Toska. This amendment refers to, and does well, to the Security Body, where there is a need to resolve issues of their smooth supply with essential materials. Questions by the Security Councils cannot be resolved with last-minute amendments. So this is a very important matter. That's good, that's good. We're thinking of agreeing and voting on it. But what are you doing? In the same amendment you are going through something else, which, of course, the Golden Dawn cannot vote. It is the amendment concerning illegal immigrants. It's Special Body 07-593. In other words, there are problems with the supply of security bodies and the feeding of illegal immigrants. You don't do this here by accident. I don't think you're stupid. You do it - and in particular Toskas - very beautiful. What are you gonna do? You will go to the police trade unions and you will say: "We are going through positive provisions for the Security Bodies, but look here. The golden patriots did not vote for it!" When we are in an election period, your people will turn to the various trade unions of firefighters, police, and they will say "Look, the Golden Dawn has not voted". You will not, however, say that there is a second comitology, which refers to illegal immigrants. You're a villain and you're doing this. We believe that, with what you are voting on and the way you bring the amendments, you are creating teratogenicities. Remember that you will find these bad legislation before you, not only you but the entire Greek people. Soon many of these amendments will either be called upon to correct them or to abolish them completely. Continuing with the amendments, we have another amendment here with a general number of 1154, and a special number of 185 for the Music Concert. We remember when Lafazanes and the Army were beating here. We remember "AGE" articles with large letters about the Concert Hall of Music, which is a timeless, intergroup scandal, which is exempted from the obligation to produce tax information. And here we say: a country like Greece, which is bankrupt, is impossible to maintain bankrupt companies like the Music House. We read that the total liabilities of the mansion, particularly the loans - from the National Bank and not just - amount to EUR 400 million. Interestingly, the Greek State was the guarantor of the loans taken by the Congregation of Music, in order to proceed with the expansion of the buildings. In particular, the Congregation of Music has thus far concluded three loans guaranteeing the Greek State of EUR 245 million. Of these, the outstanding balance on 30 June 2013 was EUR 229 million. The loans were received from the National Bank and the European Investment Bank. As far as the National Bank is concerned, the loan was EUR 95 million and the Greek State has taken over, i.e. the Greek taxpayer. Some other loans from the European Bank amount to 78 million. A second loan reaches 55 million. There is the question here: To which Greek taxpayer has a business, which is not the fault of him not going well, and who owes five, ten, fifteen grand to the tax office, will the tax advisor not go to put a red ribbon on him and shut the shop down? This is and remember that again next year at this time we will be discussing new extensions to the Concert Hall of Music. Here a solution needs to be found and the solution, for us, is just the public prosecutor's intervention, to see how it is possible to refinance the public business of such a Labraki, to say things with their name - and then the company itself will then go ringing and contesting, to get money for advertising, etc. We cannot understand that and the Greek people cannot understand it either. We continue with the defence industry amendment. We have also said in the past, and we have stressed that the Hellenic Defence Systems should in every way be strengthened in order to strengthen their uninterrupted operation in the production and trade of weapons and ammunition for the benefit of our country. But there must be a solution here, not every time we turn to last-minute amendments. Let us remember that our neighbours, our best friends, the Turks are supplied with S -300 and we are here to talk about amendments, which will extend some contracts for the NSAs.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u94	They have S -300. They're equipped with S-400.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u95	Right, with S-400. In conclusion, I would like to say that yesterday an ESTIA programme was launched - in Latin, it is written, of course, that the Mayor of Athens - which he says is a home rental programme for refugees in Greece. This is a major scandal, when the budget, he says, is EUR 93.5 million and aims to increase by twenty-two thousand refugees living in rental houses. We therefore have new refugee support measures in Greece at a total cost of EUR 209 million, at the same time that Greek taxpayers are leading to suicide, unable to cope with the tax latitude. Moreover, the 'ESTIA' - in Latin characters, so that immigrants or illegal immigrants can read it - will offer refugees assistance and cash - this was done yesterday for those who did not get a hamburger - to cover their daily needs when the Greeks in the schools faint from hunger. That's what Golden Dawn is called to show up in this Chamber. It was very easy for us to say that we are leaving the Chamber, because we do not agree with the bill but with the twenty-two amendments. However, unfortunately, the Golden Dawn has no means of projecting itself beyond the House, and we must be here, in this Chamber, to show such scandals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u96	We are also closing down the dissections of the speakers - because parties have left, some colleagues do not want any dentistry - with Mr. Dimitris Kammenos from the Independent Greeks. I put the normal time like everyone else.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u97	I'm gonna need less.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u98	Here, Mr. Cammene, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr President. Following yesterday's suggestion I will make a few comments on a new amendment, which I consider to be extremely important, and I will also deal with ELSTAT and the Music Concert. That's the prologue. As far as the Music Hall is concerned, I said yesterday that I would like it to be the last time. We say this last time in this speech, without lying to the previous governments now - because people are tired of hearing about who set it up, how he set it up and how much money was eaten - that he must not come back to the Greek Parliament, to the Government of SYRIZA - Independent Greeks, any application for an amendment to give insurance and tax information to the Congregation of Music, to which we have already borrowed and given him 250 million. Can we give him an update on why? To get a grant! So he'll get a grant, he'll have other revenues, and still he won't be able to get insurance. This question, as Mr. Koutsoukos said, I've made it myself. We have not taken the business footage or the balance sheets and the cash flows, to see what this shop is doing and whether it has to work that way. This is the last time we vote. I say this from a step of the House personally, and I think on behalf of the Independent Greeks that we will vote again for no renewal of any tax information on the Music House for any reason, unless the Congregation brings us to the House the Congregation of Music and its administration all the cash outlets, all the business footage, to see where the money is lost. So the grant he's getting today, where's he gonna go and want insurance information? And why doesn't he have insurance and tax information? Nobody's figured out what's going on. We've asked questions and we're waiting for answers. At the worst, we can give it to the Vienna Philharmonic, give us money of 5-10 million a year in the pants, close a hole and manage it! It's not bad. But 250 million is a great deal and we are constantly asking for information, from which the couper cannot escape at the corner with a debt of 500 euros in the tax office or at the TEBE. The question raised on the amendment by the Minister of Tourism, Mrs Kundura, is a purely non-discriminatory issue between the officials of the Ministry and the EOT. It is clear that when a mission is needed, there is a call for positions. They must have the right, they must go there and employees of the Ministry, and not just of the EOT. I do not understand the courage of my colleague, Mr Xydakis, who came to opposition to a bill which solves a simple matter and at the same time has passed through the Government Secretariat and signed up and comes to us to opposition. I don't understand that. We should look a little more seriously at all these bills, especially the Members of Parliament when they comment. We have said that this is an extremely important matter for the POS. They'll get the fines in, and that's how they should be. We see what is happening in the islands and the hostile approach that the auditors of the independent authority have. We should step up our efforts. I have said - and I have made a suggestion - that, in business and in all companies, the unscrupulous account, unfortunately, cannot be in all the amounts, but we must start with payroll. It is forbidden for any undertaking in which we require that it has an electronic transaction machine to be incomplete or not to be able to pay the wages. Officials are not to blame! If it's a supplier, the tenant, PPC, the arrangement, or anything else, we can talk about it. But the clerk must be paid. So my proposal that I have made in writing is to start the payroll discrepancy. On the subject of Mr Georgios of ELSTAT, they have started the means and made various comments which we do not "squee" and I am sorry for the expression, Mr President. I'm not a lawyer, but I asked a lawyer. This Christian, Georgiou, when the prosecutor is taking a suit and invites him and does not Kammenos or any other natural person, why should we cover his expenses first - let us say that we agree on this - and where can we get to like a ceiling? I would like to say in the Minutes that all my colleagues will be informed of something I did not know. These are the tables referred to in the last paragraph of Article 45 of the Bar Association, where it states: ‘If legal documents are presented and the requested amount does not exceed six times the reference amount of each procedural act or service, as specified in the tables of the Code on Lawyers. So I'm filing the tables of the Code of Lawyers. We see that the sums are from 50 and 80 euros and are up to 1000 euros in some displays of felony in the Areo Ice. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Money is very little. I learned it yesterday and I share the knowledge with you. Expenditure is not much, but it is a matter of principle, whether, when a public prosecutor who represents the public office of any public office in the performance of his duties, the State itself should pay the costs until it is irrevocably innocent or not. Anyway, this is another debate and it is not here. Finally, as I promised, I consider the amendment, which comes together with the extrajudicial compromise, to help the banks' funds, because at the moment we are running with the Private Debt Management Special Secretariat, so that the platform for the extrajudicial platform is ready from 3 August. They will come out of "Tyresia" - and this is very important - and they will receive tax and insurance information which has not had too many businesses, thousands of ATMs, if they go on the platform, make the box and then allow the confidentiality to be lifted, so that we can know whether or not they have money so that their debts can be settled and tired. This way of extrajudicial compromise is extremely important for both the spring 2018 banking resistance tests and the target we have, to clear EUR 39 billion from red loans by the end of 2019. Supplementary came this bill, which allows shares to be exchanged with special bonds. By sharing these bonds with the new Tier 1 capital instruments (Tier 1) the Greek State will have an income where it never had. What's that? At least 6% plus 50 points, so 6.5% interest on capital per year. It will, in other words, have an income which, in ten years' time, in which case there is a takeover obligation, will reach EUR 600 million for the State, where there has never been any income from the preference shares, which were both unfinished and no redemption obligation. Today, as we have said, the Greek public does not receive anything. The banks are not currently competent, profit-driven, reserves to take over shares in the 2010-2015 period. Preferential shares have not expired, they have an indefinite duration, so in theory banks can pay them back or never pay them back. There was no law until today to press for their repayment. [[Mr DIMITRIOS KRIMASTINOS]] Importantly, because it is a bond and is not a share capital, in case - the non-usable - liquidation of a bank occurs secondly, bond holders come to the fore for any contribution to the recapitalisation. So it is very important that the public has collected its money and that banks and citizens' deposits do not risk it at all. Finally, the exchange strengthens the banks' funds without new state aid. This is very important, because if and if it succeeds - and we all think that it will succeed - the out-of-court compromise will not require new funds to the banks, the deposits will also be injected, the balance sheets of the banks and companies that have these EUR 40 billion'red' loans will be cleared up, and if we build the pieces of the assets of these banks and instead of the privileges we give the bond with the income, then the banks are insured twice, so that we do not have any risk and no institution needs to tell us 'they are missing money'. I would refer you to what the IMF said, which has no basis, and I tell you that at the end of the year we will go much better than all the forecasts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u100	Thank you. Mrs. Kundura has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u101	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would just like to make it clear to the House about the amendments which have already been accepted that the EOT and the Ministry of Tourism, when the notice comes out to cover the last three years, will be renewed every three years if, if and if they so wish, the notice goes out for the EOT workers, the officials and the Ministry. This is provided for by the Presidential Decree. But, by mistake, there is an injustice and an inequality in the fact that, for emergencies - which happened to arise because tourism is going extremely well and in some countries very strong and dynamic, we also need more support, but also because some extraordinary departures for health or problematic pregnancy have emerged - it is foreseen that these posts are temporarily with a secondment of six months or a year, as required, can be covered by the EOT. The injustice here was that it was not for the officials of the Ministry. The permanent posts were therefore planned to be covered by both the EOT and the Ministry and the emergency services only by the EOT. In order for all workers to be treated equally and for this injustice to be lifted, we have brought this little complement to the existing provision. We have supplemented, in other words, that for emergencies, apart from the EOT, the officials of the Ministry will be able to cover them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, too. The floor has been raised by the Deputy Minister, Mrs Papanatsiou, for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to make a reference to the attitude of Officers and the whole procedure with the amendments. We talked to the committees too. Most of the amendments had been tabled to the committees. We have discussed them, taken a position, accepted some of the Civic Opposition and everyone. And we were very pleased at the consensus that existed and we all went on to do some parliamentary work other than on other occasions. From there on, the Conference of Presidents decided to be in two days' time. And it decided to do so in two days, especially because we knew that because it is - and I mentioned it to the committee - the end of the parliamentary term, there are too many problems that we have to solve. We are not a rapist to sit here these days and bring any further amendments, nor do we like them. We are, however, obliged to solve the problems of the Greek people. And since we have to solve them, even with the amendments, we have to improve the daily lives of the citizen and resolve issues. We must not go over things that will bring us revenue. We must not even make moves that would have very bad results for our country. In honour of the Democratic Alliance, she remained here and raised her objections, she puts her views forward, and there is a dialogue in order to move forward. Some others think that for some reason or not they wanted to take a stand on some amendments or deprive them of the weekend that they are used to having and had to leave. From there on, we must be here, we must resolve issues and improve everyday life, and we will continue to do so. I shall now refer to the bill, because I think we are a little underestimated by all the debate that has taken place and that does not appear as it should be. We have also discussed an important issue in committee in the fight against tax evasion. As we have seen from the debate in the last few days, everyone has a positive view of the current harmonisation of Greek legislation with Directive 881/EEC. It is well known that tax evasion or better the methods of aggressive tax planning for multinational companies are a major problem both for reasons of sound administration and for the equal treatment of all healthy competition rules. Tax evasion is done by methods and tools of mass destruction. With a few moves there is a tax evasion of tens or hundreds of millions of euros. With the evolution of globalisation and the emergence of the single market in Europe, tax evasion of this kind has been strengthened. Large business groups, multinational and transnational companies can transfer their profits from country to country at much lower cost and faster than in the past. The result is that they can exploit tax competition downwards between countries. They can exploit the regime of so-called tax havens. Such methods, even when they appear to be legal, are, in fact, illegal. This problem cannot be dealt with exclusively by national measures, not even bilateral ones. We need agreements and political will at European and global level. Such an effort is being made at both OECD and European Union level. This effort is made up of very small steps. The main objective of the directive is to address specific practices of aggressive tax planning for multinational companies. Since groupings of multinational companies are active in several countries, they have the possibility of engaged in aggressive tax planning practices which domestic companies do not have. At the same time, the directive attempts to provide the tax authorities with appropriate information so that there is no loss of revenue. At the same time, the authorities are equipped with all the necessary information to have a direct reaction when harmful tax practices are found. As I have made clear from the outset, all these are measures that step by step - they are trying to tackle the problem. I would like to point out that we are talking about administrative fines relating to the Documentation File, which were in line with the Code on Taxation, while we are waiting shortly for the follow-up to the European directive with the fifth amendment, as was voted on in the European Parliament. I am talking about the legislative improvement that changes the fines from 5,000 to 10,000 euros to 10,000 and 20,000 euros. This bill, ladies and gentlemen, in its second part, has several other provisions governing several other issues. As was seen by the committee meetings, but also by the debate with the institutions, there is a consensus, as it resolves issues of everyday life. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] Mr President, I'm going to need some more time. Thus, through the amendment to the transfer of VAT from 24% to 13%, both producers and businesses are assisted and the administrative costs incurred by the Administration are normalised because of the different tax headings of these products. The payment accounts, i.e. accounts held with non-banking institutions, such as ‘Paid and Electronic Money Institutions’, are included in the third party holding procedure. Of course they fall within the protection of the irreconcilable account and that kind of accounts. Issues related to the definition of the concept of the branch for the imposition of the trade fee are dealt with. This is where I want to clarify. We do not differ where the trade fee is imposed. The concept of the branch had not been defined and we come here and legislate what it means to 'a branch'. This, in turn, also lurks the trade fee. The full exemption from the 2017 and 2018 HOPS for buildings and plots located in the affected areas of the Municipalities of the Municipality of Lesvos and Kos that have been proven to have damaged is regulated. As I said in committee, this is the least we can do from an administrative point of view, along with our absolute respect for these regions. I would like to say that we have also given extensions to the outstanding debts on the island of Kos since today. I would like to mention here, because perhaps some have misinterpreted it - and I told the committee - that the two specific border regions happen to be areas with a great deal of refugee status. This does not mean, however, that the exemption from the HPAI has something to do with the refugee. It's not about that. I say this because it has also been heard about other islands that have refugees and are claiming them too. I say again that it is only for cases affected by the earthquake and indeed for property in the specific areas affected by the earthquake. In addition, the level of offenders for uninsured vehicles is regulated according to their type, cubicity and the paradox is returned to those who paid it in the days it was frozen. This regulation rationalises the paradox for uninsured vehicles escalating according to vehicle cubics. For example, the following is now the case: EUR 100 for double-circuit cars up to EUR 100 50 cubic centimeters, EUR 150 for double-circuits of two hundred fifty-one and over, EUR 200 for cars up to a thousand cubic metres, EUR 250 for cars of a thousand cubic meters or more. It is worth noting, in relation to the procedure, that the Independent Public Revenue Authority, in cooperation with the Ministry of Transport, proceeds to ensure the validity of a measure necessary for the safety of citizens. He said the Undersecretary of Transport was really in trouble. At the new junction, we must have the problems solved and not have the number of vehicles mentioned last time. The payment of the voluntary provision of Greek shipowners and for the year 2018 is hereby extended. Finally, a very important part of the bill is the forthcoming concessions. I repeat in plenary that we are aiming to reduce the operating costs of various operators and to rationalise the distribution and exploitation of public property, both for the benefit of citizens and for the benefit of the public. I say again that we do not want to get off of what we need to use, what we need to make public revenues. The people we can take advantage of them do not give them to the municipalities or any other ministry. We grant to municipalities that are unprocessed, which are not currently maintained and which, if they do not continue, do not exist. For example, all these peace courts in the country are certain buildings, which, many of them, are historical buildings. We can't leave them like that in some remote villages, because that's where most of them were. Somebody's got to take care of them. Someone has to make use of them. I don't think there's any special interest in being able to take the Peace Court to MacKorham or Pagogoy. I shall refer to some of the concessions. The concession of the public-sector section to Nisyros Municipality for the strengthening of economic life and the development of the remote municipality solves a chronic problem in the region. I would like to say that we have considered this yesterday and there is no question of an environmental issue for the quarries. The provisions currently in force will continue to apply to anyone who has their exploitation. The concession to the Municipality of Ermoupolis Syros to cover the housing needs of the Department of Mechanical Design of Products and Systems of the University of the Aegean is a second concession. At the Ministry of Culture and Sport to cover the housing needs of the regional service of the above monuments and technical works of Epirus, North Ionian and Western Macedonia, the concession was made, in cooperation with the Deputy Minister Vassiliadis and the Region of Attica, to the General Secretariat of Sports of the Ministry of Culture and Sport, in order to grant, in use, the SCI for the protection and renewal of the environment and for the maintenance and operation of the facilities within it. I would like to state clearly here that we do not give it to the Ministry of Sport just to give it to us. Because the CTB building is also at the Ministry of Sports, and the surrounding space had to go to the CTB. From there he will cooperate with the Region of Attica - local government is - and they will proceed with the regeneration of the area. We all want the best for the surrounding space of the CFD. I will also refer to a final concession by ownership, 2/3 indivisible, of the Hospital of Lower Patisia to the Ministry of Health for the housing of a primary care structure, a centre for urban health of the first Attica. For us, citizens' health and education are the main expression and improvement of the social protection of a modern social state. Where some were putting a lock on, we're reopening streets. Suffice it to remind us that this hospital has been inactivated. The departments were transferred and merged, eventually leading to closure, removing the right to direct access and care from a densely populated and central area. Ladies and gentlemen, it is certain that small steps are needed to give the necessary breath, both social and economic. We are aware of the difficulties, objective and non-objective, but we should also plan the next day. On this horizon, everyone works in the government and our ministry. It is also a given fact that we will not at any time lose the aim of reconstructing the place as it goes through our hand. And with the small contributions of all of us, we will succeed, because there is a need, but there is also the political will, which is defined by both our integrity and our dignity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, too. There is no other colleague who has asked for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance is finalised: ‘Adaptation of Greek legislation to the provisions of Directive (EU) 2016/881 and other provisions. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u105	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u106	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u107	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u108	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u109	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u110	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u111	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u112	The river is far away. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Adapting Greek legislation to the provisions of Directive (EU) 2016/881 and other provisions’ was accepted in principle by a majority. We are entering the vote on articles and amendments. Their vote will be taken separately. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u113	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u114	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u115	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u116	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u117	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u118	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u119	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u120	The river is far away. Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u121	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u122	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u123	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u124	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u125	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u126	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u127	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u128	The river is far away. Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 3 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u129	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u130	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u131	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u132	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u133	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u134	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u135	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u136	The river is far away. Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 4 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u137	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u138	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u139	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u140	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u141	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u142	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u143	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u144	The river is far away. Article 4 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u145	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u146	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u147	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u148	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u149	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u150	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u151	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u152	The river is far away. Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u153	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u154	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u155	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u156	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u157	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u158	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u159	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u160	The river is far away. Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 7 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u161	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u162	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u163	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u164	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u165	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u166	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u167	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u168	The river is far away. Article 7 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Article 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u169	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u170	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u171	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u172	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u173	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u174	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u175	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u176	The river is far away. Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 9 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u177	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u178	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u179	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u180	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u181	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u182	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u183	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u184	The river is far away. Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u185	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u186	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u187	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u188	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u189	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u190	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u191	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u192	The river is far away. Article 10 was therefore unanimously accepted. Will Rule 11 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u193	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u194	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u195	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u196	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u197	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u198	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u199	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u200	The river is far away. Article 11 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 12 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u201	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u202	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u203	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u204	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u205	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u206	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u207	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u208	The river is far away. Article 12 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does the House agree to Rule 13, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u209	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u210	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u211	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u212	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u213	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u214	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u215	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u216	The river is far away. Article 13 was therefore approved, as amended by the Minister, acting unanimously. Does this House accept Rule 14 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u217	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u218	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u219	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u220	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u221	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u222	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u223	Oh, no. Mr President, we are voting 'No' on the point that we agree to make an adjustment, but only if the instalments - as we have said - were to be implemented for twelve months and not for six months, and the rest of the money.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u224	The river is far away. Article 14 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 15 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u225	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u226	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u227	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u228	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u229	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u230	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u231	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u232	The river is far away. Article 15 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by omission. Will Rule 16 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u233	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u234	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u235	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u236	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u237	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u238	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u239	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u240	The river is far away. Article 16 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 17 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u241	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u242	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u243	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u244	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u245	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u246	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u247	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u248	The river is far away. Article 17 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 18 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u249	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u250	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u251	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u252	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u253	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u254	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u255	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u256	The river is far away. Article 18 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 19 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u257	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u258	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u259	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u260	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u261	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u262	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u263	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u264	The river is far away. Article 19 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 20 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u265	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u266	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u267	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u268	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u269	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u270	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u271	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u272	The river is far away. Article 20 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 21 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u273	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u274	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u275	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u276	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u277	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u278	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u279	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u280	The river is far away. Article 21 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 22 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u281	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u282	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u283	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u284	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u285	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u286	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u287	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u288	The river is far away. Article 22 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 23 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u289	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u290	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u291	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u292	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u293	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u294	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u295	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u296	The river is far away. Article 23 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 24 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u297	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u298	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u299	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u300	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u301	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u302	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u303	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u304	The river is far away. Article 24 was therefore accepted as being majority. Is Article 25 accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u305	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u306	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u307	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u308	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u309	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u310	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u311	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u312	The river is far away. Article 25 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Is Article 26 acceptable, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u313	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u314	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u315	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u316	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u317	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u318	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u319	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u320	The river is far away. Article 26 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 27 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u321	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u322	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u323	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u324	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u325	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u326	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u327	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u328	The river is far away. Article 27 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 28 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u329	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u330	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u331	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u332	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u333	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u334	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u335	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u336	The river is far away. Article 28 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 29 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u337	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u338	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u339	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u340	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u341	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u342	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u343	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u344	The river is far away. Article 29 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 30 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u345	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u346	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u347	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u348	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u349	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u350	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u351	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u352	The river is far away. Article 30 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 31 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u353	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u354	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u355	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u356	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u357	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u358	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u359	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u360	The river is far away. Article 31 has therefore been accepted as it is unanimously. Does this House accept Rule 32 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u361	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u362	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u363	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u364	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u365	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u366	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u367	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u368	The river is far away. Article 32 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 33 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u369	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u370	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u371	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u372	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u373	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u374	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u375	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u376	The river is far away. Article 33 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 34 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u377	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u378	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u379	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u380	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u381	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u382	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u383	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u384	The river is far away. Article 34 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 35 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u385	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u386	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u387	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u388	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u389	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u390	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u391	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u392	The river is far away. Article 35 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 36 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u393	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u394	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u395	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u396	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u397	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u398	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u399	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u400	The river is far away. Article 36 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 37 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u401	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u402	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u403	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u404	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u405	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u406	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u407	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u408	The river is far away. Article 37 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 38 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u409	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u410	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u411	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u412	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u413	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u414	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u415	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u416	The river is far away. Article 38 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 39 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u417	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u418	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u419	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u420	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u421	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u422	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u423	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u424	The river is far away. Article 39 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 40 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u425	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u426	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u427	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u428	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u429	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u430	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u431	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u432	The river is far away. Article 40 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 41 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u433	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u434	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u435	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u436	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u437	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u438	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u439	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u440	The river is far away. Article 41 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 42 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u441	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u442	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u443	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u444	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u445	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u446	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u447	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u448	The river is far away. Article 42 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 43 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u449	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u450	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u451	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u452	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u453	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u454	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u455	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u456	The river is far away. Article 43 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 44 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u457	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u458	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u459	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u460	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u461	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u462	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u463	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u464	The river is far away. Article 44 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 45 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u465	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u466	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u467	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u468	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u469	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u470	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u471	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u472	The river is far away. Article 45 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 46 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u473	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u474	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u475	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u476	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u477	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u478	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u479	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u480	The river is far away. Article 46 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 47 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u481	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u482	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u483	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u484	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u485	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u486	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u487	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u488	The river is far away. Article 47 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 48 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u489	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u490	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u491	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u492	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u493	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u494	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u495	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u496	The river is far away. Article 48 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 49 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u497	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u498	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u499	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u500	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u501	The JRC is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u502	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u503	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u504	The river is far away. Article 49 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 50 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u505	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u506	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u507	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u508	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u509	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u510	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u511	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u512	The river is far away. Article 50 has therefore been accepted as a majority. Will Rule 51 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u513	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u514	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u515	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u516	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u517	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u518	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u519	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u520	The river is far away. Article 51 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 52 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u521	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u522	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u523	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u524	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u525	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u526	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u527	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u528	The river is far away. Article 52 has therefore been accepted as it has unanimously been. Will Rule 53 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u529	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u530	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u531	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u532	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u533	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u534	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u535	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u536	The river is far away. Article 53 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 54 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u537	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u538	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u539	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u540	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u541	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u542	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u543	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u544	The river is far away. Article 54 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 55 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u545	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u546	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u547	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u548	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u549	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u550	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u551	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u552	The river is far away. Article 55 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 56 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u553	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u554	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u555	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u556	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u557	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u558	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u559	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u560	The river is far away. Article 56 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 57 is deleted. Does the House accept Rule 57 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u561	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u562	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u563	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u564	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u565	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u566	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u567	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u568	The river is far away. Article 57 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept the new Article 58 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u569	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u570	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u571	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u572	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u573	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u574	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u575	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u576	The river is far away. Article 58 has therefore been accepted as majority. Can the House accept the new Article 59 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u577	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u578	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u579	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u580	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u581	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u582	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u583	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u584	The river is far away. Article 59 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 1153 and a special 184, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u585	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u586	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u587	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u588	Oh, no. Mr President, we would like to point out, however, that we would vote 'Yes' in the Security Councils on topical and urgent materials, but, as we said from the Stepma, Mr Toskas has put a provision on the special body for illegal immigrants, in which we say 'No'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u589	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u590	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u591	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u592	The river is far away. The amendment under general number 1153, and a special 184, as amended by the Minister, was therefore accepted by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 1154 and a special number 185 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u593	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u594	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u595	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u596	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u597	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u598	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u599	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u600	The river is far away. Therefore, the amendment under general number 1154 and a special 185 were accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment acceptable under a general number 1155 and a special number 186 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u601	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u602	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u603	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u604	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u605	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u606	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u607	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u608	The river is far away. The amendment under number 1155 and a special 186 were therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 1156 and a special number 187 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u609	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u610	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u611	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u612	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u613	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u614	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u615	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u616	The river is far away. Therefore, the amendment under general number 1156 and a special 187 were accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment under a general number 1157 and a specialist of 188 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u617	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u618	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u619	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u620	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u621	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u622	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u623	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u624	The river is far away. Therefore, the amendment under general number 1157 and a special 188 were accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 1158 and a special number 189 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u625	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u626	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u627	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u628	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u629	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u630	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u631	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u632	The river is far away. Therefore, the amendment under general number 1158 and a specialist of 189 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 1159 and a special number 190 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u633	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u634	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u635	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u636	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u637	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u638	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u639	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u640	The river is far away. Therefore, the amendment under a general number 1159 and a special 190 were accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same articles. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 1160 and a special number 191 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u641	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u642	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u643	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u644	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u645	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u646	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u647	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u648	The river is far away. Therefore, the amendment under a general number 1160 and a special 191 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 1161 and a special number 192 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u649	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u650	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u651	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u652	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u653	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u654	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u655	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u656	The river is far away. Therefore, the amendment under general number 1161 and a special 192 was accepted as it is unanimous and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 1163 and a special number 193 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u657	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u658	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u659	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u660	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u661	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u662	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u663	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u664	The river is far away. Therefore, the amendment under general number 1163 and a special 193 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 1164 and a special name 194 as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u665	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u666	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u667	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u668	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u669	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u670	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u671	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u672	The river is far away. The amendment under number 1164 and a special 194 were therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 1165 and a special number 195 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u673	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u674	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u675	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u676	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u677	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u678	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u679	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u680	The river is far away. Therefore, the amendment under general number 1165 and a special 195 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same articles. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 1168 and a special number 198?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u681	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u682	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u683	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u684	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u685	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u686	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u687	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u688	The river is far away. Therefore, the amendment under general number 1168 and a special 198 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment with a general number of 1171 and a special number of 201 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u689	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u690	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u691	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u692	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u693	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u694	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u695	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u696	The river is far away. Therefore, the amendment under a general number of 1171 and a special 201 was accepted as it is majority and is part of Article 34 of the draft law. Does this House accept the amendment with a general number of 1172 and a special number of 202 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u697	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u698	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u699	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u700	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u701	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u702	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u703	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u704	The river is far away. Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1172 and a special 202 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 1174 and a special number 203 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u705	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u706	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u707	Here you go. Mr President, I would like to make it clear that we are voting 'Greats' because we agree with the provision on credit institutions, we disagree with the provision on the surplus, we agree with the provision on the AIAD, and we have a reservation on cleaning costs.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u708	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u709	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u710	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u711	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u712	The river is far away. Therefore, the amendment under a general number 1174 and a special 203 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same articles. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number of Nos 1152, 183 and 183 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u713	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u714	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u715	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u716	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u717	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u718	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u719	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u720	The river is far away. Therefore, the amendment under general number 1152 and a special 183 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominated article of the bill. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u721	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u722	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u723	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u724	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u725	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u726	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u727	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u728	The river is far away. The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Adapting Greek legislation to the provisions of Directive (EU) 2016/881 and other provisions’ was accepted in principle and in the articles. We move on to vote on the bill and on the whole. Does this House accept the bill as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u729	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u730	The New Democracy is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u731	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u732	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u733	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u734	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u735	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u736	The river is far away. The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Adaptation of Greek legislation to the provisions of Directive (EU) 2016/881 and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u737	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u738	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-28-S1-commons.u739	With the consent of the House at 13.13 p.m. the sitting for the next Monday, 31 July, 2017, at 12.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: (a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate and (b) legislative work, in accordance with the agenda to be distributed.
