ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The first is the third with number 356/17-1-2017, a topical question from the Second Vice President of the Parliament and MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.George Born to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, about the rename of the Department of Management, Environment and Natural Resources of the University of Patras, based in Agrinio, in a Department of Environmental Engineering. The Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs will answer Mr. Konstantinos Gavroglou. Mr. Vice President, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u3	Minister, the contents of today's question touch an open wound. It is an issue that is related to the general existence and functioning of university departments across the territory, in the region, which I will analyse in my second language. I will now start with this specific issue. The Management of the Natural Resources Management Department since 2009 has taken a decision to rename the Department to a Department of Environmental Engineering. Since then, an uncertainty, an ambiguity, a plankton, no voice, no hearing! Over the years, students' families spend their time studying their children, and there is no decision on this matter that is directly related to their professional rights, because if it were typical, we would easily reach a solution. But it's not typical, it's essential and it's involved with professional rights. Students in this department are five years, not four years old. The teaching and research staff in 2015 numbered eighteen people. I can even tell you that from the point of view of publications from 2000 to 2009 there has been a significant, perhaps rapid rise. In 2000, it was 2.6, in 2014 it reached 3.52 articles per person. There's been an important research project. The question remains at the moment as the "short step of the stork" I saw before on the channel of the Parliament, a show that was referring to Marcello Mastruggianni, and said where the project was being filmed and spoke from the step of the House. Yeah, it's not even a step, a meteor question. Please answer me and I reserve my second language.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr. Varemene. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. It is an opportunity to say two words about the expression you have used, namely that it is an open wound. The open wound has to do with unbelievable truces of the past and sins about how to create the new divisions. As you well know, this section was established in 1998 as an annex to the University of Ioannina. The University of Western Greece was then founded. In 2013 with "Athena" the University of Western Greece was abolished and these departments went to the University of Patras. All this, as you can see, does not honor the history of universities in general. So here we are dealing with a section that has basically lost its direction of which institution it is to which it belongs and what it must do. That's the one. Secondly, his rename to a Department of Engineering, with everything that that means, has caused a reaction of the polytechnic school of the University of Patras, in which he wants to join the Senate. In other words, we do not have a clear decision saying 'we accept this'. The state must come into contact with the institutions, regardless of whether any Minister agrees or agrees. I mean, there's an academic criterion. So we remove the academic criterion, I don't think we're going to go away. Here, therefore, in terms of the criterion of academic competence, institutions themselves can have an opinion. The state may have an opinion on various other issues, but what is the curriculum, whether it will be five years or four years, if it is the same as other relevant sections in Greece, etc. They're decided by the universities. They may disagree, but that is the way things should be done. So here there is no clear decision, either from the Polytechnic University of Crete or from the Senate of the University of Patras in the direction that graduates and teachers would like today, etc. Therefore, it would be, we think, wrong for the state to say 'no, it must be done'. The state has been operating this way so far. We need to change that. I would therefore like to say to my fellow Members in this section that they can consult with their respective colleagues in the multi-technical school, which they are already in, but which do not have the title of engineer. To find a solution to so many schools that exist in one of our best universities that is the University of Patras to finish this case. I'm sorry I don't have to tell you any more. I'll listen to your dentistry, and I'll add if there's anything. However, in this respect, I think we should be stable on certain criteria and they have their own legality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Baroness, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u7	The Greek state is no longer united. Whatever you say about the past, you'll be right. Unbelievable things have happened in the past. But when this section was administratively integrated into the University of Patras in 2013, it was administratively integrated into the polytechnic school. What was that? A hint? At least it wasn't? Why did he join there? For local reasons? But beyond that, you referred to the adventure of the University of Western Greece at some point. Schools were founded in 1998 as part of the University of Ioannina. 2009 becomes an autonomous university. In 2013, the project "ATHENA" comes on a night slash and dark and says that the departments are being abolished and gone to Patras. They become "balls" from Yannina to Agrinio autonomous and then to Patras. Let me say that the state has a say. As he had reason to do so when he abolished them and when he created them, he abolished them and went back where he was going, so now the state has a reason. If we leave each university separately to decide where there are schools, it will become a raft worse than the one that has been done so far. Why don't we hide behind our finger. We know how they decide and on what quasi-corporate criteria. Let me tell you something about teaching staff. At the moment, the University Departments of Agrinio belong to Patras. Why are they not aided by analogy? Because teaching staff at the University of Patras is being awarded, and what goes on at the University of Agrinio does not go there. There's a way around, Minister. You must have a say on this. The prior leadership of the Ministry said that our policy is to have the departments and to develop in the region, to be a lever for regional development. I would say this, so that this laughter doesn't happen in the country. In fact, the adventure of the University Departments of Agrinio was a copy of the country's adventure towards bankruptcy. With this sloppyness, the country has arrived here. I say that, in any case, if it is to be done, it must be done with a consensus so that the others do not come tomorrow and tear down what was built today in education at least because education is something special. If there can be one there. At least the opposition parties will tell us what they believe in these parts. What do they think? Is it okay what happened with Mr. Arvanitopoulos? If it didn't work out, see how we can do it better. But, in any case, I repeat that the Ministry must have a position rather than impose it, but make it known its position, that this is the position of the Ministry, that is the state's position for regional university departments and that is what we want to play for the development of the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr. Bored. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. I hope I'm not mistaken. Apparently, the state must have a say on such matters. What I have tried to say is that if there is no elementary consensus on the part of the parties involved, whatever the state decides, it will be in the air again. The enthusiastic situation, which you rightly referred to, shows the dissatisfaction of the ATHENA project, emerged precisely because there was no understanding at all and there was a crazy shape, say, that went to be implemented and created problems for us even today. So what I'm trying to say is that we really need to do a lot of effort. I must personally undertake to sit at the same table as the Polytechnic, with the Dean, with the colleagues in this section, and to try to record the possible solutions so that there is a minimum of consensus for whatever solution. There is no consensus at the moment on this solution. It's not gonna work no matter what. But what I want to say is this. We have decided to abolish the institution councils that are at each university and to establish regional Higher Education Councils. These will have representatives of universities, representatives of TEIs in the region and, if there are any research centres, representatives of research centres. These councils will have as their sole concern locality with a peak of its development, based on the fact that they have specific institutions within this region. So we should give a development content to all these institutions. In this context, there are specific plans for Agrini. I do not want to tell you now - and I do not say it politically - but I promise you that, if you ask a question again, in about a month's time, we will have a concrete plan on the potential of other activities in Agrinio, so that we can go to normalisation with these departments and the University of Patras. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We continue with the seventh with number 360/17-1-2017, a topical question for the second question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning the coverage of the gaps of teachers at Moires High School of the Municipality of Faistos. Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we have already been in the fifth month since the beginning of the school year, and everyday life is an undisputed witness to the acute problems in schools, in education in general. More specifically, at Moires High School, the largest school unit in the region with four hundred students, the shortages in teachers create an incredible anti-educational ball. The school is down and it is not possible to have a stable programme for both pupils and teachers. This problem concerns both the formal departments and the school's integration departments. First of all, in relation to the needs of general education, your written answer to a question from our party on 7 December, tells us that you hired alternates for the needs of general education. We would say that it was bad for him not to have any teachers at all! The point is that, apart from having hired them in November, two months after the start of the school year, there are eight additional organic gaps, always having regard to both sick teachers and the fact that this is a school of four hundred pupils with fifteen sections. And it cannot be a cause for not covering the gaps the departure of an English teacher and the 3-11-2016 sickening of a teacher, as you mentioned in your answer. In our view, you are artificially hiding the problems by presenting conditions of regularity, which is not the case. There are still shortcomings in basic qualifications of teachers: philosopher, technician, English, sociologist, gymnast. In particular, the lesson of Social and Political Education in High School, which is ten hours, is not taught at all. There are also 14 hours of English, eighteen hours of technology, eighteen hours of physical treatment, seventeen hours of music, seventeen hours of art. It is also worth noting that in high school over the last three years music and visuals have not been taught, while physics is taught half the hours planned. The gaps are, of course, much more. In other words, imagine how many gaps would have been if laboratory operators and physical science and IT courses had not been abolished and if the working hours of high school courses had not been changed by cutting hours off teaching objects. To finish my question, why is this whole mess going on? For these teaching objects, of course, are seen as luxury for you and are contrary to your commitments to the memoranda and to the OECD toolbox, which contribute to further abandoning and condemning public and free education. We therefore call on you, Minister, to respond to what measures the government intends to take to ensure that the formal sections of the Moors High School and of the Integration Departments are immediately filled up - but I will say them in my second language because I do not have time - and the recruitment of permanent staff to cover the real educational needs of 20 students per department. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u12	The Minister has the floor, Mr Gavroglou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u13	Mr Synonymakis, if I were to defend the system of appointments perfectly and, above all, as a substitute, it would be a political attitude. And I'm sure you'd be the first one - and rightly so - to report it. Last year we managed to take a very important step, with huge problems. The Molecular High does have some of the problems you've said. It is not so dramatic, but even at one hour I will consider it unacceptable in education. I'm talking very honestly to you, and I'm talking to you as a teacher. There are, today, about twenty-five hours from what I've been informed, gaps. Half of them have been covered since you spotted - and I am right to say that you have located them - the problems. We're trying to solve them. You know - it's not a question, I'm sure you know very well - that a system as long as it's based on alternates is a system that is, in fact, uneducated. It is not these people's fault, but this is an unacceptable employment status. We are afflicting people, sending them from here and there, so the solution is obviously the permanent appointments. I think that we are in a quite good position in a short time - it is extremely complicated - to announce a convincing number, a number, that is, that is, that will indeed apply to permanent appointments. They won't solve the whole problem either. So as a response to your question - I really do not want to politicize and say that there is no problem - what I want to say is that someone has actually been filled - there are not so many gaps - and we will try to fill in the rest by honestly recognizing that by filling out these gaps, you have done half the job anyway. But I want you to know the mechanism for the placement of alternates, what a complex mechanism that is, beyond the general problems of serious underfunding that exist. I know that the answer is not satisfactory, but I think it is honest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Here you are, Mr Synthraki, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you have said the regularity of education and the government is celebrating. In our view, this normality is an unambiguous lie. In this unacceptable working regime, which you are saying and contradicts your policy, if we look at the data, the proportions of permanent training staff and staff who are substitutes or via the NRP are fifty - fifty. This ratio is gradually reversed and is the result of your commitments, because here we are not discussing your intention of personal or collective, etc., but the result of your policy. Holland gaps are equivalent to thousands of lost teaching hours. It's sixteen thousand substitutes this year, and last year it was twenty - three thousand. I think the numbers are indisputable. Schools that the government says for the first time opened with teachers and books opened up because education, the role of school, the teaching hours have been reduced and teachers teach lessons regardless of their subject matter. Like changes, for example, now qualifying for high school, with a pre-formal dialogue, they move on the same path, to the degradation of education, and also to the implementation of the post-training apprenticeship, which is piloted in Crete, does not respond to the modern real needs of young people. The real needs of young people say to eighteen years of integrated education, general children and permanent and permanent work with insurance pay rights. In our view, with your policy you do not cure the pathogens of the educational system, instead you permanently perpetuate these pathogens. For special treatment, we have further degradation. Children and parents are the victims of this policy, which of course have to do what they have always done, that is to put their hand in the pocket and this time even deeper. It appears from the very reality, not only from the "cutter" to the funds for the special treatment and treatment of people with disabilities through the underfunding of the EEAS and changes in the way private treatment is paid. For example, at Moires High it is a tragic situation and it is demonstrated by the number of gaps. Children in need of special educational assistance are helpless with the lack of corresponding skills and are not much treated as a proverb. The school's special educational needs are forty-four students at Moires High School. In November, only one teacher was placed for integrating classes for mathematics and physics courses. Under the racing pressure of students, parents and teachers and, on the basis of the relevant question we tabled as a JRC, you were forced to put at the end of January a philosopher and a mathematician in the accession section, as happened last year. Of course, the philosopher placed February. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing.]] Yes, but there are still twenty-eight philosophical hours missing, not twenty-five hours that you said, that is another full-time philosopher, and you are not talking about the need to teach English in the accession departments, ten hours, a lesson that was taught last year, without the rest of the lessons being calculated. This is the result of the maximum effort you simply invoke to hide the problem under the carpet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u16	Mr. Synthraki, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u17	I shall conclude, Mr President. Thank you. Under these conditions, eventually, in the accession departments, it will only work in the first and second grades, it will not work in the third grade. These are the results of the policy, which is downgrading the public school, the full harmonisation with the European Union and the tradition of the education process in private speculation. So I return to the question immediately - because we are now talking about a school of four hundred pupils - that is what measures are to be taken to ensure that the gaps in the operation and the formal sections and the sections of membership are covered in the Moors High School and, of course, the recruitment of permanent staff, which you have also referred to, but your policy is such that the problem is even more acute. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u18	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u19	Thank you. For the details I answered before, I will not repeat them. Of course, with regard to your obsession with Europe's complaint, I would like to say that in this case it would be better to be like Europe. I'm sure you agree, too, because the numbers would be better. European schools don't have that much gaps. So I do not understand exactly what the problem you have with Europe is. The second thing you have said is that I am inconsistent with what I have said about normality. Look, you said it yourself, we think it's the beginning of a normality. Don't tell me that the fact that after so many decades the schools first opened, as they opened, is not a positive step that we all have to charge. We all have to! So there is one topic in terms of various positive things that are being done. In high school we've gone to a six-month reduction, and you know how important this is for the learning process. It is also the subject of inclusion with children with disabilities. That is all of us, and I think that for society it is only positive. So do not cancel things that have been done. The number you said is not right. The rate of alternates is 15%. However, it is a large number and must be reduced. But it's not 50%. And can I tell you something? In all honesty, we say so with the trade unions when we discuss it. It is clear that we need rationalisation. Orthologism doesn't mean people leave their jobs, get fired, cut money, etc., but there's a question of rationalization as to the day-to-day operation of the school. I'm finishing up with something you mentioned, and I think it's not right. There is an expression that is used very often, that every dialogue that starts is a pre-formal dialogue. That's not how it works. There's a specific suggestion here. We'll discuss the report. There will be some changes and there will be an agreement on these issues. And can I tell you something? Our question is not the agreement on solutions. The question at this stage is to agree on the problems. I would also like your party to tell us: do we now agree that the last two classes of high school are cancelled? Cancellation is not due to teachers, it's not due to children. It's a pathogen of decades. We managed to cancel the last two grades of high school. Is there a school dismissal that plays a social role? On the air, the vending room. Pan-Hellenic exams, introductory examinations for Higher Education Institutions, is that something that makes us proud as a society? Is that the unbelievable suffering of children something that should continue? Is this the first year of the university, which has no flexibility, something educationally positive? Here, then, are four issues: the last two classes of high school, the issue of the certificate, the issue of introductory examinations, the issue of the first year. These are four problems that affect each other. If we accept that these are problems, I'm sure we'll find solutions. How? Through dialogue. Now, if every dialogue is to be seen as a pretext, I must say that I cannot say much about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We continue with the first with number 379/23-1-2017 a top-level question from the Member of the Attica of New Democracy Mr. Georgios Vlachos to the Minister of Finance on the revision of tax provisions relating to tax treatment of immovable property within areas that have been integrated into a town plan, but the implementation act has not been completed. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Catherine Papanatziou. Mr. Vlavo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u21	Thank you very much, Mr President. With the question which I have tabled and which we are discussing today, Mr President, Minister, I would like to raise a very serious issue raised by the Municipality of Pallini, which concerns the unfair way in which the plots in question are taxed but have not been ratified. In such cases in the past, the period between accession to the city plan and ratification of the implementing act runs from three to five years. In this period, and despite the fact that these properties will be reduced in terms of their area, due to the mandatory land contribution, due to the possible change in position, due to the creation of public and public utilities, and possibly the settlement of property, they are now no longer classified as parcels and treated taxly as plots. It is therefore understandable, Minister, that these owners are being hit twice as much as they are taxed on an area that they do not actually own in the event of both a transfer and a real estate. In fact, this suffering of the owners, I would say, is becoming even greater, as the change in the parcel must be declared within one month by an amending declaration from the E9, without many times - and we understand that in practice - that the owners should know about joining the project. In other words, they do not have the necessary information to move within a month. In closing my prototype, Minister, I believe that this raises a number of serious issues that require immediate resolution and concerns many of our fellow citizens. We cannot ask in advance and indiscriminately for money. A similar view of the tax framework is needed in the specific cases.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr. Vlavo. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Pursuant to Article 23 of Law No 3427/2005 any natural or legal person or any legal entity, irrespective of its nationality, residence or registered office, who on 1 January has the right of full ownership, fishing ownership, landlording, landlording and surface area on the property, as well as property or property right reserved for the exclusive use of a parking, auxiliary and swimming pool situated in a shared part of the property and which are a monitoring of the property rights referred to above, is required to submit a statement of property data. The same obligation is for the above persons when they are acquired without the consent of the general government. In addition, for the establishment, acquisition and any other change to the rights stated in the real estate statement, the taxpayer shall, as a rule, be obliged to submit a relevant statement within 30 days, as you said, from the day of the establishment, acquisition and any other change to such rights. However, continuous extensions were granted to the submission of original or amending declarations E9 for the years 2014 and 2015. In particular, for the rights acquired from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2014 and from 1 January 2015 to 4 August 2015, continuous extensions were granted, with the latter provided for in paragraph 3 of the fourth Article of the act of legislative substance, i.e. until 4 September 2015, without the imposition of fines. Subsequently, Article 51 of L.4389/2015 allowed initial and amending real estate data statements E9, 2010 and subsequent years submitted between 31 December 2014 and 29 July 2016, the autonomous fine referred to in Article 4 of Law 2523/1997 or the fine referred to in Article 54 of Law 4174/2013 as appropriate, to be reduced to half. This possibility was again extended by Article 88 of Law 4413/2016 until 30 November 2016. It is clear from the above that the debtors were given the opportunity to submit declarations E9 without imposing a fine or with a reduced fine of half. The declared real estate belongs to plots within the meaning of which all areas, which are within a city plan and within a settlement, are included. According to Article 118 of the Code of Basic Urban Law, the adoption of the urban study for integration into the town plan has the consequences of approving a town plan. In view of the above legal provisions, a circular has been given instructions with POL 1237/2014, according to which in the case of a territory classified in the plan in the above and until the ratification of the relevant implementing act, it is listed as a plot in Table 1 of the E9 real estate statement by supplementing also code 2, which is subject to forced expropriation in column 10 of the specific conditions of the relevant form, in order to calculate and any reduction in the applicable to the regulated, expropriated property according to the applicable legal regime for the ownership of immovable property per annum today, HPAI. I submit the relevant document of the Capital Taxation Application Directorate. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of State, Mrs Catherine Papanatsiou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As a result, all the time allowed, in order to be able to submit the declarations, the E9. In addition, we can also see with the document of the Ministry of Environment and Energy, with Law 4269/2014 and Law 4447/2016 that the two levels of design have been integrated, urban study and implementation, at a design level, that of the modular implementation plan or urban implementation plans.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u24	Madam Minister, I would ask you to shorten your prototype. Besides, you have a second language.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u25	I shall continue in my dentistry, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u26	Mr. Vlavo, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u27	Madam Minister, I listened with caution and you read to me in many respects what the law says. I told you about a problem and you answered me in general. So I come back by mentioning three key points. The first is for time, for the famous thirty days. I think that instead of giving extensions, which you mentioned to me, and reducing the fine, I would say that it would be more honorable than the state's side to give a one-year period to the areas that are part of a plan to submit the amendment, the E9, not a month or an extension. Many owners in the areas where I speak to you in Attica do not stay in these areas and are not informed in time. They're staying somewhere else, and often they're being retarded. Therefore, rather than prolonging, I would say that there will be a regulation for one year from the beginning. I come to the second, in the calculation of the transfer of the value of the property from the competent DUT. When a parcel is incorporated into a city plan, when a transfer or sale takes place, it will be assessed as if it were within a plan. Changes the calculation, changes the value, and in practice nothing has changed at all. Let me just say to you that it was a country, a field remains, much more when we ask that this owner be taxed, say, for a acre, when at the end of the ratification of the implementing act, what will come about will not be a acre, but it will be much less and likely not to be in the same place, somewhere else. Yes, but the contribution to earth reduces the size of this particular parcel. Our proposal is, therefore, property situated in areas that are part of the city plan, to continue to be treated as parcels until the implementation act has been ratified. It's so simple and I think it's understandable and fair. I'm on my way to third. You said something about taxation. That is where the existing legislation - I imagine it is the text you have tabled - demonstrates the Ministry's intention to exclude these properties. However, there are difficulties in interpreting, which lead to misinterpretations by competent ILO and ailing citizens. That is why, Minister, it should be made quite clear that the land in question is subject to compulsory expropriation from the publication of the Presidential Decree on accession to the city plan until the adoption of the implementing act. This must be clear, but it is not always kept and the world is afflicted. I have mentioned, for example, the proposal - a protest, if you like, the Municipality of Pallini where the population has doubled over the last decade. Such cities in Attica have many. All Attica, from Megarra to Lavrio, to Sounio and from Voula to Horopoea, are such cases. We have a population explosion. There is a delay in integration into the town plan. That's not a matter of your own Ministry. Today I raise the fair way in which transfers, the E9 amendments and the taxation of parcels which have not been exploited, and no one, Madam Minister, will object when a parcel is exploited, of course the owner will give what he has to say. But when, as I told you earlier, the field stays a field and you go and ask for money in these difficult times, uh, I think it's unfair. And of course, you know, I don't think you'll get anything at the end, because this injustice is a scream.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u28	Mr. Vlao, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u29	I shall conclude, Mr President. So it is not up to us to agree that there is injustice and that we must deal with it. You have a responsibility right now to do so. And I really think, after speaking to us, that you will proceed with a regulation on this matter. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr. Vlavo. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u31	As you have said, you are asking for the possibility of being treated as parcels until the ratification of the implementing act. As I said to you, the last two levels of planning, planning and implementation have been integrated, at a level of planning, which means that the implementation plan or implementation plans, which are approved by a decision of the Secretary-General of the region, have been adopted by the latter. Therefore, with the functioning and implementation of this institutional framework, we believe that the demand is being regulated, that is to say, there is no possibility of waiting. It all starts together. Nevertheless, we consider that it has a basis for your request and our Ministry's intention is to consider the request, so that in some longer period of time there can be a change in the use of the property, because there is no longer time for implementation from one provision to another, it is united with town planning. So we intend to consider longer time to be able to make the statement about the change of E9. It is about the other Ministry and it is not about the Ministry of Finance. With that logic, we can give more time. We'll consider it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u32	With regard to the economic treatment of a plot or plot?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u33	And that, as you have said, is the finalisation of the use. This is also the case.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u34	Mr President, I am not allowed to speak now. Right?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u35	Madam Minister, will you continue or have you finished?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u36	No, I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u37	You're done. Good. Thank you, Minister. We enter the fourth topical question under number 321/9-1-2017 second cycle of the New Democracy MP, Konstantinos Javara, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the suspension of the professional activity of the members of the Government. The Minister for Culture and Sport will answer Mr. Mr. Javarra, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u38	Thank you very much, Mr President. Indeed, for a man of culture it is a very interesting experience to happen to him in the course of his life as Minister of Culture, that is to say, to represent and govern all policies relating to culture on behalf of the State. But this interesting experience also involves some sacrifices. Consequently, the provision of Article 81(3) of the Constitution stipulates that any professional activity carried out by the member of the Government or the State Secretary and the President of the Parliament shall be suspended in the course of their duties. The provision of Article 43(2) of Presidential Decree 63, which is to codify the provisions applicable to the Government, is even more stringent and says that any professional activity of the Minister is immediately and automatically suspended. And in the event that this provision is violated, the provisions on criminal liability of ministers are enacted. I think, therefore, that according to an interview, Minister, in which you said that even though you became Minister, you will continue to perform your professional duties as an actor in certain specific activities, which you have identified, that you should probably have another attitude and you should change your mind. Otherwise there is a very big and serious problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr. Javarra. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u40	The Constitution prohibits any professional activity of the members of the Government in the performance of their duties. That's clear. But my participation in the performance, Mr. Javarra, was automatically, immediately, with the interruption of my contract. I participated in unpaid and willingly. Nothing made me. Art under the Constitution is freely exercised and the Constitution protects the exercise of art. My participation in this performance, which, after all, has already been interrupted, was for a limited number of performances and I continued it voluntarily, with nothing to force me to do. Moreover, when there had to be some performances, which coincided with my obligations at the Ministry, these performances did not take place. A second factor we have to consider is that along with me, apart from the people who prepared this job for a few months, professionals participated, who, if the theatre closed, would be left unworked. I couldn't let that happen, so I took part in the show, so that a remarkable production would not be stopped and that people and families would not be left without work and without what was necessary for their survival. I therefore consider that, for all these reasons, the practice of art under the terms mentioned above does not constitute an activity of general interest. It does not therefore fall under the article of the Constitution you mentioned. That's all for now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Minister. Mr. Javarra, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u42	Minister, no one in this country disputes that you are serving the art and you are serving it in a very special way. You are even viewed by the top in your kind of artists. But politics would not have much to lose - and I say this with great respect and appreciation - if, for the sake of art, which you prefer and do well, you refused to be Minister. Do you know why I'm telling you this? Because at the moment, the key, the political, democracy, and also those who serve the policy are very much on the verge of those who, by anti-democratic means, fight the status quo, the constitutional regime. You, then, offer a unique opportunity today, you confess to illegality, confess that you are committing a breach of duty, because someone allegedly told you that it is not a professional activity when your profession is doing so without payment. So listen, just a few words. Firstly, if this were to happen, that is, the point of remuneration was a part of the concept of profession, then the courts and the theory of Constitutional law would agree with you. But while you interviewed the newspaper "Kathemerini", on the very day after the Professor of Constitutional Law and Vice-President of the Council of State Mr. Pararas said in these words, which I had the honour here to address to the President and colleagues and to check with my timely question, he says that he has no value if your profession does so for free or on a fee. This is for a very simple reason and I will give you a parallel example: A lawyer who is Minister could, with the argument you are presenting today in this debate, go to court and say: "I do not receive a reward, I do not do so because I want to win, I do because I love the defendants or I want to give my offer to justice." You realize that things are getting complicated. I think there is a lot of things - and I wonder why your legal advisers have not informed you - of a series of decisions by the Supreme Special Court. This court of constitution has it as the supreme judge of what is in place in constitutional terms and what is not. It is my view, instead of other things, that I am presenting in the Minutes the decision of the Supreme Special Court, which has been held there, whether on a fee or not, in the event that its exercise is incompatible with the exercise of a public duty, that has no influence. I do not think the purpose of the legislator is very simple. He wants to avoid causing confusion between the public interest, which you serve as Minister, and the private interests in which you are involved in any way providing your professional services. So you have a big mistake. Because, of course, I think you are a decent and worthy citizen in this country, I think you should hurry. Of course, art is going to lose and I recognize it. But what you said, the state protects art, is a very great deal of truth, which is why the Ministry has exactly what you are serving, but it does not protect the people of art when they are illegal. Unless you think that we should finally live in such a state that any reference to the House should relate to the illegality of creation. I could agree with you, if that is your view, under certain conditions. Unfortunately, however, the Constitution has another view.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr. Javarra. The Minister for Culture and Sport has the floor, Mr. Lydia Conniordos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u44	Your Honor, you are a well-known lawman, but, as you know, the law can be read in various ways. The first paragraph of Article 16 of the Constitution stipulates that art and science, research and teaching are free. Their development and promotion is an obligation of the state. This, in terms of the first part you mentioned. With regard to the second, I, as you know, did not know before that I would take up this position and therefore had no moral obligation to close the theater and leave a number of specialties unemployed who live from this job. Therefore, in accordance with Article 16 of the Constitution, and in accordance with my moral obligation, I felt it necessary to continue my involvement with the performance, under the conditions I said, unpaid and willingly, so that these performances could be completed, sooner than planned, so that I can exercise my duties freely at the Ministry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Minister. We continue with the fifth under the number 347/16-1-2017 topical question of the second question of the Member of the Magnesia Parliament, Mr Christos Boukos, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the rationalisation of the railway routes Volos - Larissa and Larissa - Thessaloniki. Mr. Bukokouros' question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr. Nikolaos Mavraganis. Mr. Buquoir, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, when I tabled the timely question, your responsibilities had not been clarified. It is a good thing, therefore, that the content of the question coincides with the powers assigned to you. Let me say that today's topical question does not have a party target, even though we are in a political position. I would say that it is purely serviceable, but we all know that, even today, in 2017, in Greece, the services, to function, sometimes need from above-mentioned suggestions or even orders. I think the contents of the question are clear. This is a number of routes which are occasionally designated or changed, leading to the rail isolation of Volos, a city which has a long history of rail, as you will know. What I am referring to as evidence is a distillate of OSE officials and, of course, it is not my own. It seems clear here that, with some changes in a few minutes on the routes - which do not charge the line, because they do not cost and need no additional staff - passengers headed or leaving Volos with the Athens and Thessaloniki responses can be facilitated, of course, through Larissa. I am, of course, talking about the morning route, which departs from Volos at 5.30 p.m. and arrives at 6.18 ́ in Larissa, while the suburban for Thessaloniki departs at 6:00 p.m., a quarter earlier. I am talking about the lunch route, which departs from Larissa for Volos at 14:30', while Thessaloniki's suburbs have a time of arrival, just 14:33', and for the afternoon route, which, yes, prevents the response from Athens, but again a passenger, for less than ten minutes, does not get the response from Thessaloniki for Volos. I think that you need to take some initiative to rationalise these routes, which will serve the passenger public and will certainly add passengers to the OSE line before Ferrovie dello Stato Italiane takes over after privatisation, which we see is in some way under way, despite the problems. I think there is time, if there is a will, to improve these routes and to streamline them. I will say more in my denture about how we have come to the definition of such routes, which, as I said before, lead to the rail isolation of an entire region.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr. Bukkaro. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u48	Mr Colleagues, it is clear that this timely question relates, above all, to the service of society as a whole. We show a project and a sensitivity to it, and we will clearly be leaning on this topic. It makes sense what you are saying and, obviously, the shifts of the route, since they can cooperatively be included in the 'TRAINOSE' programme but do not cause problems in the synergy of the routes with other trains coming, passing through and responding to the previous and subsequent routes, it could be said that it would be easy to do so. It is not exactly clear whether expenditure is or does not arise and whether difficulties arise or arise. It is true that the information network of the TRAINOSE, which has been given specific technical details, has given us some questions of response. The first two routes you mention, namely the breakfast from Volos to Larissa and the meridian from Larissa to Volos, are easier to heal, despite the fact that, as you know, in the framework of Law 4408/2016 as well as the public service contract concluded between the Greek State as a supervising authority - since RAEM is still not fully registered - and on the other hand, "TRAINOSE" provides that different timetables are made every six months and since eight months ago, i.e. in June, the second Saturday, and in December, also the second Saturday night, applications have been made. But we're not gonna stand by the guy. I, at least, made my intervention to TRAINOSE and I think the first two, at least, which are a little easier, will be cured. As far as the third is concerned, there are a number of issues relating to 'ERGOSE', with some ongoing projects. Consider the people who are listening, but also you, that in some parts of the rail network, which we are making very great efforts to extend it and optimise it to the maximum, there is a problem. Because instead of coming trains, the same point of time, they are actually faced with traffic, and for that reason many times the tenth can still cause confusion. What you are saying, however, makes sense and we need to look at it, because it relates, if you like, to the commerciality of the route itself and it can even raise the revenue of the railway itself.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr Bukkokouros has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u50	Mr. Undersecretary, I'm glad our views coincide. After all, the aim of all of us on such issues is to serve the community as a whole. I regard it as a type of commitment that the first two routes, which are mentioned in my timely question, will be dealt with immediately. I think that the third route - if I understood it well from your position - will be examined, despite the fact that you see some technical problems. I do not think there will be any expenditure on these changes. In contrast, there will be revenues for the OSE, revenues for the ‘TRAINOSE’. Because today there are many passengers who lose the answers you and I have referred to. Since I was given the opportunity, I would tell you that I have asked you another simple question, not timely, about the revival of the historic route Kalambakas - Volos in the context of the Thessaloniki railway, which, unnecessarily, is going to be parked for many hours in Larissa, while with the same staff and without again charging the line, could, by bringing revenue to the OSE, make the old route, which was Kalambaka - Volos, without any time charge or any charge on the line. I would ask you to consider this question as well. He was filed a few days ago. Also, the trade union party's party - I mean SYRIZA - has made a proposal which is very interesting and I think is adopted by everyone. For the 884 and 885 routes, therefore, they could have a double engine to make a split at the Palaeofharsal station and the Intercity would continue from Athens to Kalambaka and the second followed the stratification for Volos, thus adding another route, with no expenses again. This would bring about a balance of the injustice suffered by a city with a long railway history. Thessaic railroad was built on Koumoundourou with de Kiriko, Minister, and there are some historical data showing that it was the heart of the railroad. After all, even today, the largest factory of the OSE on the Thessaloniki railway is based in Volos. It is - if you want - uneconomic to have a large factory and to have few routes on such a railway destination. So there is this proposal too. I'll testify to you to study it. I would say that, many times, there is no need for funds or additional staff to resolve a number of issues, which also refresh the railway, but also serve the whole of society. I would therefore like you to address these issues, in order to solve significant problems, without either changing travel habits or not burdening, in particular, the cost of the OSE. The sooner, the better, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr. Bukkaro. The Minister has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u52	It's obvious we're in the same direction. Especially for the first two routes, I think that the TRAINOSE will do what can be done in the shortest time, as is required within the grid of synergies with the OSE. On my third route, some technical hesitations were expressed. They want to see it again. With regard to what you said about the Kalambakas-Volos link, I would like to say on this occasion that the adaptability that we need to show on the routes also took place in Calabaka on the Kalambassa-Larisa route - I think in the past few months - precisely in the adaptation to the needs of the passenger population.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u53	It's still going on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u54	In this direction, then, we will also be moving on these routes. Let us also see the route which, as you say, is of historic importance from Kalambaka to Volos, since there is a special burden there. We have to look at it, study it and, of course, submit it to TRAINOSE. I think these requests would be good, and for the press too, to be submitted directly to TRAINOSE, so that there would be a cover for its admissibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u55	Questions have been tabled to TRAINOSE.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u56	Good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Five questions were raised during today's topical and urgent debate and the following six will not be discussed: The second question, under number 386/24-1-2017, is the first question of the MEP I of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Antonio Gregos to the Minister of Culture and Sport, concerning the "prison of the name "Macedonia" in sports organisations, will not be discussed, due to the absence of the State Secretary responsible abroad. Also, the first question under number 380/23-1-2017, the second question of the new Democracy MP, Mr. Savvas Anastasiades, to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, concerning the completion of the Greek school complex in Munich, will not be discussed due to lack of competence. As mentioned, the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs is responsible. The first question by MP Attica of the Democratic Integration PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Finance on excise duty on wine will not be discussed, in consultation with the State Secretary responsible. The sixth question under number 352/16-1-2017 of the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Michou to the Minister of the Interior, concerning the "exploitation of thorough research into the extensive fires in Chios, Evia and Thassos", will not be discussed, due to the impediment of the Minister responsible. The third question under number 389/24-1-2017, first question by the Member of Parliament, Aitolakarannia, of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister for Health, concerning the payment of workers clearers to the services of the General Hospital of Arta, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister responsible. Finally, the second question, under number 387/24-1-2017, of the second question of the Athens Parliamentary of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panagiotarous to the Minister of Finance, concerning "the legislation to extend approved expenses beyond hospitals", will not be discussed because of the impediment of the Minister of Finance. All questions which have not been discussed are confirmed - in the sense that they will not be discussed - by the Secretary-General of the Government, Mrs Kalogerou. This concludes the debate on the topical and urgent questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda for the INQUIRY The debate under number 6/6/5-1-2017 is scheduled for the New Democracy Members. Georgiou Georgioda, Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou, Mavroudi Voridis, Sophia Vultesis, Georgiou Karasmani, Dimitrios Kyriazides, Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos, Konstantinos Tsiara, Konstantinos Tsiaras, Panagiotis (Noti) Mitaraki, Christos Boukorou and Maximou Charakopoulos to the Minister of Administrative Reconstruction, on the topic: "With opacity and unaccuracy, the government continuously enlarges the public." We will begin with the first questionable Member of the New Democracy, George Georgios Georgios Georgios, MP of the Kilkis Law, for ten minutes. We will continue with the list of questionable Members of the New Democracy, seven of them. The intervention of the Minister, the protology and the interventions of the parliamentary representatives of the parties will be followed. Mr Georgios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the option of putting a timely question from the Members of the New Democracy about the situation in the public is not a simple, formal, parliamentary procedure. There was the result of a ripening in the thought of Members of the respective New Democracy area that we must somehow formulate to all those involved in what is now called 'public administration' that it is no longer going and call on them to assume their responsibilities. When I talk about responsibilities, I am not just talking about policies. This government started with its dear choice of having legislation with very nice terms and titles, which would, on the contrary, lead to the state being dismantled and to the modernisation of public administration. I will mention attributes the legislation of the previous Minister, in February 2016, for the Public Staff Register, which had to be operational as of 30 July 2016 and in any case since September 2016. Any posts which are vacant in the public, final, either in agencies or in general secretariats or in special secretariats, must be fulfilled by a specific procedure that you have chosen. We had some disagreements, but in any case you chose it, saying that it will lead to the state being dismantled. In two days' time, we enter February and this bill, your bill, with the nice title, with the nice explanatory statement that it leads to the state's colonisation, has not worked yet. And why hasn't it worked? Evidently, the tank of strains, of relatives or of party friends, which still have to be placed directly in agencies or in special and general secretariats has not yet been exhausted. This register, therefore, has actually been omitted, has been discredited in the consciousness of the civil servants, who from a number of tens of thousands who were the beneficiaries who could apply for, to date, have only nine hundred. The AACC has not been prepared on your own responsibility, so that it can function this register and, of course, no choice has been made through this procedure - and I would like an answer to that - one year later and when this particular piece of legislation has been advertised before the end of the two years. Among the issues you say you have achieved in public administration, you have also mentioned this bill. There has been a lot of talk, Minister, about the number of posters, about the extensions of contracts, about the parliamentary amendments, which, at a rate of stormy, are in the House and create conditions of undividedness and opacity in working relations in the public sector. But since all this has been heard many times, I, in my short time, although there are too many issues, will try to be really specific, and I will ask, Madam Minister, for specific answers, which the New Democracy does not just ask for, but I think that every reasonable citizen in this country, who, after seven years of crisis, does not want to hear 'what you and others have done before and we are entitled to do now and do it in any way'. The world, the Greek taxpayer who pays, wants to know that there is also a hierarchy of public priorities there is an assessment. A specific first point, and I would ask you to reply. In February 2016, an amendment to the House on "CITIZENS S.A.", accepted by the Minister, Mr. Vernardakis, and the Minister says that workers of this institution or, rather, the former bodies that were merged in the "CITIAN INFRASTRUCES" have been judged by final decisions to cover fixed and continuous needs. Objection by the speaker at that sitting: 'Why not wait for the Ice Bay decision?' I didn't get a reply from anyone. Why, of course, should I get an answer when this happened? A few months later the Ice Bay decision, which was actually pending, comes out. In this decision of the Ice Marios, which has been pending and which I will table in the Minutes together with another decision, Arios Ice comes in irreversibly and considers that these workers cannot be re-entered, as they do not cover fixed and permanent needs and conflict with 103 of the Constitution. In a favoured state, a Minister of Public Administration, which respects the law, his own Parliament and his judicial independent authority, would try to comply with this decision of the Supreme Courts. Here it happened: With a new amendment that came in December, which I will also table, accepted by Minister Spirtz, the Government comes and says 'within any general and specific provision and decision' - I, at least, have not seen this before in an amendment, apparently meaning the decision of the Ice Arena - 'we reinstate specific contractors by means of notices ten years ago'. He was referring to them, and indeed not to those who won the perfectional, who were seventy - three, but to all those who participated who are two hundred thirteen. How can a Greek citizen accept that you are coming without any legal basis, without any moral value, against a judgment of the Ice Bay, when you have said in your statements that we must respect the judgments of the courts - and we fully agree with this logic here and in the first place by the New Democracy - against this decision of the Ice Bay, which I make in the Minutes of the House and you think these workers are indefinite for the time being? After that, after that given, what trace of credibility can be left, so that we can talk to the Greek citizens and tell them about democracy in the public sector? [[At this point Mr Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I expect concrete answers, because the responsibilities here are no longer just political, Minister. It's not just politics! I come to a second point in relation to the number of posters. They heard stuff there, too. I'm going to say something specific today, so people can figure out what's going on with posthumous employees. Act of Minister of the Council of Ministers, 24-8-2016, on Deputy Minister of State, Mr Juliarakis. In order to cover exceptional service needs, we have an increase of the single positions of specialist consultants by three. On 6-9-2016, in order to cover exceptional service needs, we have an increase in the uniform positions of special advisors for the political office - and the previous one for the political office was - Mrs Koudoura by three. On 23-1-2017, an increase of the single positions of special advisors and special partners for Mr. Pappas' political office by five. And, of course, Mr Muzala's five-fifths and five-fifths of Mr Polakis. These all together are twenty one officials and their payroll - the budgetary burden - according to the FEK, which I have in front of me, and I will also present it in Parliament, is 939 000 per year. What was the extremely urgent need for existing ministers - the four of them were working, one being the Ministry the new one that happened - and we have increased the special positions of the political office partners, indeed. Nine hundred and thirty-nine thousand. That's all I could find in a little research I've done. I don't know what all the burdens you have on these options are. I think that in the consciousness of the world now, you are using the public as your own party feud, it has become quite clear that this is what you are actually trying to do. What I want you to understand today, however, is that, firstly, you have nothing to gain from it, because the large number of Greek citizens want after seven years of crisis to feel that the money paid by the Greek taxpayer from his lameness in these difficult circumstances is money that has been evaluated, which has been achieved on the basis of the procedures provided for by the ASEAN. There is a transparent process in managing all the funds, and the best can take any position, which is announced when it is announced. The Greek people can no longer tolerate political staff - I think - practices that go beyond any previous ones, because they are not just practices that are contrary to mere provisions of the law, which are in breach of the Constitution itself, with whatever moral rules and, as I said before, with the decisions of the Supreme Courts themselves. We have to decide here, Minister, what forms of work are with the public, how it is ensured that these working forms are of benefit to those who must benefit each time and also to everyone, that a people cannot be called upon to pay for this government's desire to control civil servants in every way. Civil servants are also aware of what all the people are now aware of: that only a government that will help to raise the economy is a government that will ensure both their wages and their positions, because with the cutter you have voted on, and the wages of civil servants are here. So it is understandable to everyone that only one government that can move forward with the Greek economy is the one that will ensure its own interests. Such a government is very clear that it can only be New Democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr. Georganta. The second question is raised by the New Democracy, Mr Mavroudis Vorides.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we can also agree with a relative comfort that public recruitment must be carried out in a rational way, and must be transparent and must be done in a way that meets real needs. If we agree on this, I think we can move on to the next one. The right procedure for these recruitments is to be done by an institution, an independent authority, which I think has gained the confidence of society as a whole and of the political forces. I imagine there is no disagreement on that too. I don't know, I'm not sure, but I'd like to hear about it, and we're talking about the SAAP. If we agree on these, then, Minister, you must begin to explain why you have legally done this: in the municipalities, as you know, there is indeed, for the purpose of covering seasonal needs, the possibility of recruiting with three months, five months, eight months, that is to say, fixed-term contracts, in order to meet specific needs and limitations, in fact, many restrictions on this procedure. You have already done the following things: Twice you have prolonged the conventions in these municipalities. These specific conventions. I have a simple question that I would like us to understand. Are there standing and constant needs in these municipalities? If these needs are stable and lasting, why did the eight months end up being two years and eight months, then why has a transparent recruitment process not been followed through AEP? There was time for that. Secondly, it did not even have to be a new recruitment procedure. Because there are already our competitions and fellow citizens waiting for the AACC to proceed with this process. Why do you prolong - twice have you done this - these recruitments? But I come to what begins and becomes extremely dangerous and evil. So you made legislation with which you extended the first time, ladies and gentlemen, these conventions. I'll read you something now. A municipality's payment warrant is unnoticed. It does not matter either this particular warrant or the particular municipality, but I tell you that this is a Court of Auditors, a commissioner's office. So the mayor asks the Commissioner to pay the sum of people who have been extended their contracts in this way and the Commissioner is coming, namely the Court of Auditors, and says: ‘It is not legitimate to conclude such contracts, because the needs retained and repeated for longer than eight months remove their character as periodicals, seasonal or entrants, are fixed and permanent needs and can only be covered under the conditions laid down in Article 103 of the Constitution by recruiting staff, either on a regular basis or under contracts of private law of indefinite duration’. It rejects, ladies and gentlemen, which means that the payment is not legal. Watch out now. When has this been published? This has already been in place since the end of December 2016. And you come as you know these, and you extend for 2017. Mayors come and say: "We under the law are obliged to prolong, because, if we do not prolong, we are in breach of duty." And the Commissioners come and say to them: 'You are prolonging, but the practice is non-legislative, because it is contrary to Article 103 of the Constitution'. Can you give us an explanation? Because I hear that something you are thinking of inconsistent legal errors, to tell you what a familiar legal error is, ladies and gentlemen. [[At this point, the end of the speech bell of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] Thirty seconds, Mr President. A well-known legal error, ladies and gentlemen, we have, when a person who is not legally aware of and does not know the interpretation and application of a provision went to his lawyer, got an opinion, went to the university professor, got an opinion, told him "so this provision is interpreted and this is to do." And it is in a conscientious legal error that someone who did all they could to understand the content of an incomprehensible legal provision and did not succeed. When you have the decisions of Commissioners, i.e. judges, that is to say the Court of Auditors, who tells you that this is not legal, what is the apologies for legal error? You are thinking of covering it, secondly, with legislation, which will also be unconstitutional, precisely because it is going to cure this basic unconstitutionality. That's a violation of the violation. Unconstitutionalism in unconstitutionality. My question is: why are you doing this? Why don't you just move on to normal recruitment? And above all, because you are insulting the rights of the Greek citizens who, at the end of the day, expect, if there are real needs, to be recruited through the AACC by means of a clear and transparent procedure. We've got it. You're on a run. Every bill must bring us a thousand, two thousand, to pretend we're making a betone audience. But you should know that at a huge political cost you take this type of routine practice.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr. Vorides. We continue with Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos, who is the third questioner. Mr. Panayotopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, you have come two years ago to make it all, and every day that passes, the belief in an increasing part of the Greek people that you are here to dismantle it all. The two years of your government are being treated by the Greek people not as a happy birthday, but as a sad memorial, a memorial of the economy that, at the end of 2014, distinguished some light in the dark, but now is now completely on track in the darkness of the capital controls, the broken banking system, the broken entrepreneurship of all of them, overtaxation, of course, but a sad memorial to the economy, the insurance system, education and public administration. You once spoke about the need for a profound change in the procedures of the public administration in order to support, he says, the competitiveness of the Greek economy. This is laughing! In practice, what you are doing is over-taxing the private sector to finance the growth of the public sector, because this is your basic ideological choice, and I do not need to say anything else about it, and let the Minister for Development say that the competitiveness of businesses has nothing to do with overtaxation. The other U.S. feeder! He let us down. The payroll costs of the central administration in the first nine months of 2016 increased, according to data from the General Accounting Office of the State, by 144 million and we expect to see at the end of the year how much the total amount will be. Next, and I'm sure the growth will be higher. The taxpayers will pay. You agreed with the lenders to dismantle the public administration. And here they laugh loudly! It was the period of delusion. The fraud was not revealed yet and the lenders had not understood it, except for the Greek people. But what are you talking about? You are trying unambiguously two things, which, of course, are interconnected: the growth of the public sector and the abundance of the public sector. You create an army of appointed party friends and send the account to the Greek taxpayer. You create new structures, prolong contract contracts, alternates, general secretaries, consultants, outdated, posted. As far as I know, the latest new structure, which you intend to create, before the adoption of the relevant law, which will explain all this, is the JEPs, says, for red loans. I suppose you will appoint some friends of yours to the Red Loan JEPs and because the Red Loan Act has not yet been passed, each borrower, who will go there asking for explanations, wonder what kind of answers he will get. Do you expect us to vote for the law? Maybe some people would introduce him and not pay, though these, these days and these behaviors went by. And you did all this using a lot of tricks and drunkenness, which not only destroys any concept of good administration, accountability and transparent procedure, but also violates the provisions of the Constitution directly, with which you sometimes give me the impression that you do not feel so well. Of course, I am referring to the question of converting fixed-term employment relationships and work of public workers into contracts of indefinite duration. This conversion is, as you know, contrary to Article 103(8) of the Constitution, but also to provisions of special law. The Minister responsible asks for a derogation - listen, listen! - every general and specific provision, in effect, making the urge to violate the Constitution and other relevant laws, government mandate - please! - by way of derogation from any special and general provision. Remove the rules. I'm here. In your artifacts, you're also involved in justice. You are intervening and making recommendations to the leadership of the Court of Auditors, as if it were this supreme court of the country, one of the three, some public office awaiting instructions from the relevant Minister, in order, of course, to approve funds for the payroll of contractors. You are building legal abominations, such as that of the well-known legal error, which the previous speaker spoke about and analysed it very well, but a well-known legal error, please, for the future, when we are supposed to have received explanations and understand what was our mistake, so that we can deceive ourselves. Wrong on the program again! You point to the Court of Auditors a specific legal status now in cases that will arise in the future. I mean, if that's possible. We'll forget what we know. You resort to other wicked things, since the end justifies the means. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A bit of your tolerance, Mr President. I'm not going to take a second. I'd better say everything now that I've got the sled of thought. In particular, on the question of the conversion of fixedterm contracts, again private law, in indefinite contractors, you have devised two new types of judicial decision: First, the irrevocablejudgment, in which, with an amendment by Members, 'with a derogation', the conventions were deemed to be indefinite, even though they had been equipped with first-time and only judgments. As you know, the law on the conversion of these contracts requires an irrevocable decision, but these are fine letters for the Ministry's leadership and, obviously, for the Ministry's lawmakers. The second new type of decision is the irrevocable decision, at the time of acceptance of the statutory measures envisaged and imposed by the State. Here, the relevant public body, on the mandate of the administration, is waived by the courts, the case is not brought to the supreme court, i.e. the supreme court, in order to judge definitively and irrevocably in a new trial, and the contract is finally being transformed indefinitely without being judged by the supreme or supreme court - very nice and very nice. These practices demonstrate, on the one hand, a cynical feasibility and, on the other, a deep contempt for every concept of transparent and sound administration. That's how they understood the exercise of power. And if, as I am learning, you managed to settle the account with the Local Government agencies, soon bringing an amendment to that effect to cover wage bills from contractors' simulations, because some municipalities are struggling, since they do not know how to cover and pay those who you intend to appoint, there is the other account called upon to pay the ordinary taxpayer. This will come either in the form of increased municipal fees, which inevitably some mayors will be forced to introduce, or in the form of other taxes, which the citizen is already required to pay or possibly to pay in the future. Because for you, administrative reform is nothing more than putting your friends in public and sending the account to the citizens. Ladies and gentlemen - I am closing - the New Democracy, in particular Mr Mitsotakis, personally, has worked hard on real reform, aiming at the proper functioning of the public administration. He made difficult decisions, took costs - without costing, knowing it, not meaning an attempt to reform public administration - passed sound laws on objective crisis and assessment systems. For example: Principles of open governance, verification of authenticity of documents used to recruit civil servants, a system of selection of head of government on the basis of essential qualifications, stricter disciplinary law of civil servants and others. You know, we have no intention of watching you party to the public administration, notwithstanding any general or special provision, while you have undertaken to collect it in writing. You are self-suffering, if you think the New Democracy will follow you in this work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u64	We continue with Mrs Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President. If you're kind enough, I'd like to take my dentistry too. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that they have properly developed the opaque and undemocratic recruitments you systematically make in the public sector, which - as I would say quite rightly - are touching, if you like, the limits of the challenge, and which also contribute to responsibilities, which I think are obvious in some cases, that they go beyond the narrow limits of the politician. I will therefore not give any specific examples, because I have been covered. I will examine your motives, that is, why you do this, because you are so rampant and so stubbornly swelling the public, putting your own people in. The answer could be quite simple. You are in favour of your own - I am not talking about it - children, nephews, cousins, partners, the government, in the narrow public sector, in the wider public sector. Imagine we could do this. Your only criterion is...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u66	You never did!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u67	Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u68	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u69	I see that my fellow Members will be much more disturbed, so if we start from now, we will never finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u70	Come on, Mrs. Asmakopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u71	The criterion is obviously not denomination, it is 'leftness' or something like that. That's what you're doing. Okay. Maybe it's your turn, so the state is a spoil. With this logic, you are building a party army to have people tomorrow to vote for you again. That may be the case, but I honestly think your motives are a little deeper. I really believe and see a project being developed before us, which I call a 'true plan'. You started singing. You have perpetuated principles, glossed values, glossed human consciences. You have stirred a course of exit from the crisis. And since you definitely wanted to come to power, you threw away the sacrifices of the Greek people in the trash. You weren't interested in anything. And with your populism and your unprecedented lies you smacked upon the desperation of the Greek people and guarded his vote. So you came to power. And now you're executing the plan of leashing the state. That's what we're talking about today. You put your people in the narrow public sector. You don't care how. You are head of the management authorities with the 'never more permanent of the temporary'. You don't care about the yearbook. You don't care about dignity. You are not interested in anything and you are moving not only in the narrow public sector and in the wider public sector, but also in the independent authorities. I would remind you here that you started with the Competition Committee, where you stopped a photographer because he was a New Democracy MP's wife. You continued to dismantle several pretext councils for not serving you. And of course we have reached the second part of the plan of perfume, of the media salting with the well-known PSE. The well-known and ambitious canalarch, Mr. Papapas, who decided by a law to cover what the Constitution said the PSE should do, decided that he should make the number of licences and was led to a volcanic politician, a political strife, which led to the removal from Maximos, of the Ministry of Digital Policy. Goddamn it, if he does anything about digital policy. And now the media project continues. After the competition has collapsed and Mr. Papas never responds, what this competition has cost, the money is returned to the canalarchs and we start again. And the media project continues with laws, which we will see and which will try to control internet information, will try to check how advertising is distributed. Of course, with Doll, we have put Mr Muulopoulos on political criteria. This is the second piece of blur, state blur and media blur. We control the state, we control communication. So we can say we want to. This unscrupulous and state-of-the-art way this plan is being carried out, it only has one goal, because only one motive is finally and the motive is to stay in your chairs. That's the motive. You don't care anything. You do not care if there are side-effects, if it is a side-effect of the private sector, of entrepreneurship, which is slowing down because of overtaxation, the weak social strata that pays it for over-taxation and horizontal taxes. You do not even care if there are any side losses, such as three dead - we had a third dead person - in the Moria camp, while Mr Muzalla has taken EUR 400,000 000 to take care of the refugees. None of this matters to you. But now, to keep your chairs, you have another hard thing to do. Now after the Eurogroup crash, we see the same project again. Where's Mr. Varoufakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u72	She's writing a book.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u73	Now we have Mr. Chakaloto. Same work! You have the wrong strategy and the wrong choices! It's "beetle milk" to us all. It's all wrong. And, of course, what comes as a result? The bill! I was listening to Mr. Drasakis on television yesterday, and I didn't believe him. Is that really what you're going to tell the world? He said: "We will not bring any new measures. There's the cutter. The cutter doesn't mind!' But the cutter will have a list of specific measures for what's going to be cut out, or pensions, etc. You're saying it's okay to get all this done, because it's gonna be okay. You say yes to everything about the chair! That's our target. And what I like most of all, is that after you screw up, since the third memorial plus comes, fourth memorial, institutions, the Troika, or whatever you say, you have the courage to ask us what we would do in your place! You've got a lot of nerve, too. One is your target. The chair. Nothing else. Don't look at us, though, because we put back on it once. It's not going to happen again. We, and we will strongly resist the plan for a unitation of the state, the media and ultimately a hunger of democracy, and will also serve our own goal. Your target is the chair. Our aim is to carry out the popular check, which is currently becoming more and more dynamic. One thing the world says and one thing we will serve. Get out of here!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mrs Asmakopoulou. Mr. Maximos Charakopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr President. I would also ask that I be given the opportunity to use the time of my dentistry. Ladies and gentlemen, the two years of the SYRIZA Government's demagogues' adventure - ANEL bring us back to the edge of the cliff. The disastrous work that they did not complete in 2015 is again standing before us. Fourth memorandum, Grexit, drachma, bankruptcy, reentry into our daily vocabulary. The theatre of lasting negotiation, the supposed heroic resistance to the pressures of lenders, has become a badly-famous joke. The second assessment is late for a whole year, the quantitative relaxation, the oxygen needed for the afflicted economy, is postponed, the latter are depleted, the businesses are suffocating, the citizens are struggling. But instead of being serious, they continue the same motto, with only one criterion of their choices. To feast on power as much as possible, even a few months, even on ruins. They are thinking and acting exclusively in terms of micro-party interest and customer-to-work conditions. They have devastated the exterior of any concept of merit, every evaluation process. They see the state as only a means of rescuing them, and they are no doubt champions in this area. I do not know if there is a member of your party who has no State-sponsored relationship. At the time they cut CSCE, they check the allowances in vulnerable categories of the population, they ruthlessly beat farmers, while taxing every man of the hard work, who exterminate every business activity, they load the public with friends and acquainted with doors, windows and moons, without any merits, without any hierarchy of needs. First of all, the transponder recruitment engine is working. They smuggle public administration with Karanikas, this symbol of your two-year government - already in October 2016, the posters had reached a record of two thousand ninety-nine - and the counter is constantly growing with new posts in ministers, undersecretaries, Secretary-General. But that's not all. They also create new structures, without responding to the needs of the administration, in order to increase their state-run army. At the same time, they have put before the Chamber of Parliament's amendments for legitimisation from the back door, by converting business relationships of a fixed term or work of public workers into contracts of indefinite duration and successive extensions of contracts for the employees of the municipalities. This means that every rule of merit and equal opportunities, but also the provisions of the Constitution, which stipulate that the recruitment of personnel under an indefinite contract of employment, is only via an APA. In particular, they arbitrarily impose excessive wage costs, which are often called upon by the public to cover through an increase in municipal fees. The result of all this is the launch of central administration wage costs in the first nine months of 2016, according to data from the State General Accounting Office of EUR 146 million. Ladies and gentlemen, no matter how much you want to hide, no numbers leave you, they speak for themselves. But you know that unemployment is not reduced by mass appointments to the public. This solution is a return to the 1980 paths, because these were a road to the cliff, the path of loss, destruction. The country needs real growth, incentives for the private economy, to increase productivity, to attract investment. Only in this way will new jobs be created, only in this way will the bleeding of the constant fleeing of young people be stopped abroad. It is precisely the opposite of what you are doing, the opposite of the recipe for failure, stagnation, destruction. Of course, in every admonition of logic you again begin the known "caramella" as allegedly threatening the redundancies of civil servants by Kyriakos Mitsotakis. You show a scarecrow to fear, to keep voters, but this story no longer walks. No civil servants are at risk of losing their jobs with a New Democracy government, and they know that themselves and they are already turning your back. What we have announced - and it will be done - is the implementation of the assessment, for which you have a chronic allergy, but also mobility based on the real needs and priorities of the public administration. The revelations from your works and your days in the public sector also constitute the final collapse of the supposed moral advantage of the Left. And you show, unfortunately, everywhere the same untrustworthy person, as in recent crises in the Firefighting and the Greek Police, where every reputable principle, all respect for the way in which the officials of the Security Councils were shown, was sacrificed to the altar of close party interests. By laughing at every process, you have come up with an unprecedented cradle, you have told me - loopholes, publicising the crises you have taken back and then regaining them. Pharsokomasia, which for the country is now a tragedy, as you retired worthy officers, who still had a lot to offer home, while the positionings have a heavy party footprint. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] All of this proves that all these years you've been yelling from the sidewalk, it was all hypocritical, false and misleading, because your entire state is misleading and even conscientious and deliberate and not selfish, to fool the world. But now you've been taken out and escaped there is no other way out of the election, no matter how much you waste them, you won't get away. You only have one last service to offer home, to call elections and leave at the same speed as you recovered at the top. The time has come, after this two-year bitter lesson we have all paid for, to turn to realism. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, the only good thing you'll leave behind is the dissolution of the convenient myths with which you've been squashing Greece for decades, because now no one can say that he didn't know. We all know what left means.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, twenty-nine members of the "Marios LISMANI" Philological Association. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u77	Madam President, does it make any sense for us to hear it? There's no Minister in the chairs!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u78	It was here, for a minute it came out. Mrs vulgaris, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u79	Madam President, I will also take my term of dentistry so that I do not come to Stepma. Ladies and gentlemen, there are, in fact, many lies, many illusions and many myths carefully built by this government. You'd say she's not interested in anything but building her communication profile. Following, of course, one of the basic principles of propaganda, the government always recognizes itself with good and demonizes and matches with evil anyone who disagrees with it. I can imagine what the Minister will say next. The SYRIZA - ANEL Government consists of people who are supposed to be defenders of merit, fighters of the fight against corruption, protectors of the poor and the weak, in favour of civil servants who fight for them, hard fighters of foreigners who undermine their spectacular work. The reality, of course, disproves the government, because it has proved that we are dealing with the supreme government of pluralism and xenophobia. Laugh out, why exactly have you been identified with the protection of the poor, but please tell me, from indirect taxes are the rich? So if the rich guy pays a little more than his coffee or his phone call, is anything gonna happen to him? So much for the blood that the Prime Minister says. The poor are affected by indirect taxes. So the rich are protected. Also, the superstate given to strangers, shows that you have fought for strangers and have done well, or has the foreign rulership prevailed because of you in the country? The other myth now is the protection of civil servants. How do you protect them? By appointing your chosen ones from the back door, and your customers, by dismantling the economy, industry, processing, retail trade, wholesale trade, exports, with capital controls, by reducing revenues on tourism? Do you think the civil servants don't know that, to be paid, the state must have revenue? They don't know that if the public is not connected to the private sector, is nothing going to happen? Where will the civil servants you're protecting from, when all the indicators are down? We've been listening to the hirings in the health sector for so long. They had been approved since 2014. In 2015 you had other priorities, we all remember them. You brought them into law by legislating. As far as the tenders are concerned, in 2015, if I remember correctly, you made two invitations to permanent posts in PPC, for a hundred ten and four hundred permanent posts and a contract notice for four hundred sixty-five tax posts for the General Secretariat of Public Revenues. Why were you unable in 2015 to issue a pre-emption notice for nursing staff? In 2016, your notices - I'm not only talking about the back door, I'm talking about the normal notices - were thirty-six seats in ELTA, thirty-five in the Bank of Greece, fifty-eight in four ministries, fifty-two in the General Secretariat of Public Property and the General Secretariat of Public Revenue of the Ministry of Finance, eighty-five positions in the Thessaloniki Water and sewerage Company. So these were your priorities? And now, during this holiday, the Christmas days you issued a health notice, only 7% are university education. Do we want these hires? We need to see that. So do we want more recruitment than secondary and compulsory education, or do we want people who are trained technologically or medically or nursingly? Look, the situation has now reached the unprecedented. So far, as far as I know, the only permanent positions in the field of health have been some people who have been permanently permanentd since a 1995 in the courts. There's nothing. They've been abolished from CEDEFOP. It's what's happened. Since 2014 when our government had approved them, we have arrived in 2017 and are looking for these permanent positions. However, we have two Ministers of State. What for? What do two Ministers of State need, for example? Each one of them has staff. For Mr. Flambury, I understand that because, obviously, they want to help him rub his eyes waiting for growth, as he told us the other day! Two Ministries of State where they need it? We had a Government Representative and a State Secretary to the Prime Minister, and eventually one man became three. You've separated the positions. There is another government representative, another Deputy Prime Minister here with the Prime Minister, and now we have the "digital", Mr. Pappas, who has other positions and his responsibility for the General Secretariat for Press and Information. So in your government they do - if they do - the work of one three, but they employ staff for three. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u80	Mr. Bukouros has the floor now. You've got three minutes, too, Mr. Buquoir. Will you also cover the time of your dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u81	With a slight tolerance, I will keep my dentistry, because only one colleague has kept it. It may be necessary. Thank you, Madam President. Indeed, Minister, you are showing a ruthless and admirable talent and an unprecedented ingenuity in the ways in which you fill the public. The evidence presented by Mr Georgantas and the previous colleagues were catalysts, and we are anxiously awaiting your response to the increase in wage spending and so much more. In my brief time, I would just say to you that if you showed the same ingenuity and the same talent for the great problems facing the country, it would also be different. It seems, however, that it is your only concern to plunder the state and to provide 'electees'. The SYRIZA colleagues disagree, but the numbers speak for themselves. Two three small examples, Minister. One characteristic is the company ‘Engnatia WEBSITE’. It has already been decided that it will be demilitarized. What'd you just do the last time? For a total of two hundred forty - three employees you have appointed a hundred thirteen positions of responsibility, namely, managers, assistant managers and divisions, naturally evacuating wage costs. You define generals and senior officers without soldiers. For a worker, a boss. It's amazing! That is all you could achieve! Secondly, you are hiring people for NGOs and refugee centres. By confessing your own officials 90% while they've been hired, they don't come to the centers where people die. Third victim a little baby. And the staff aren't there. Why is that? The answer was not given by the government. At the same time, they automatically come to work in public structures such as, for example, in various hospitals in the country, Mrs. Minister, volunteer natural persons, unknown under what procedures, unknown to what institutional framework. And I ask you: are you thinking of legislating to mobilise voluntary work, while some who have privileged information, will they have completed months of voluntary work? Do you know, Minister, that in hospitals in the country the Labour Inspectors' House has rushed and reported such cases, namely volunteers who are working impenetrablely in public structures? Who controls all this, Minister? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Last year the Minister for Rural Development asked for transfers of officials to serve the FIFG. And a number of adjoining officials - let me have the term - have applied for a transfer. A year has elapsed, the announcement from the FFET came out of the air on 30-3-2016, some have been transferred - unknown to what criteria - and other civil servants are still waiting without a reply. You nominate every bill a new agency. Those who are recruited do not come to work as is the case with NGOs. Volunteers seem to be rushing into public structures. Check the transfer even. And then you smile ironically when we tell you you're plundering the state. As soon as the forestists, Minister, complained to you the same way you were operating in the distribution of state funds. This is a multi-page complaint, which I make in the Minutes, and which the Minister for Rural Development is accused of choosing from a register of thirty companies seven and eight offices for forestry studies permanently selects four and gives the jobs. Studies with a discount of 0.3% that do not exist in Greece and the selected ones who have experience and will have a prerequisite for the large projects that come, such as forest maps, the settlement of the pastures, etc. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Boukoros, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Do all this make you proud, Minister? I told you about recruitment, about volunteers who work clearly in order to obtain a pre-service, and also about money. And with the eight months, what do you think you're finally doing? Will you create an army by renewing the eight-month contracts? You just deprive yourself of the right to a breath in thousands of long-term unemployed. Because the eight-month-olds have that meaning. If you constantly renew contracts to themselves and to themselves, when will long-term unemployed work for eight months? Are these objective, meritful and transparent choices? This is all a deep-seated state, Minister. And you know, we don't say that all of them were always holy in this place. But in recent years, at least, either with the AACC or with efforts to curb the public, we have agreed, I think, the whole political world in some things. You're coming now and you're fiercely closing the eye. But, Minister, it is quite a different thing to make the mistake in a time of peace and completely different to commit the same mistakes at wartime. Because the country is at war and the government majority is unable to understand it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u82	Mr. Bakhoro, you've exceeded your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u83	Read better.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u84	Now on behalf of the government, the Minister for Administrative Reconstruction, Mr Gerovali, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u85	Learn to read the names right you sit there.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u86	I didn't want to blame you, Mr. Bukkoro. Why should I blame you?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u87	Keep an eye on the names. It's a serious job you're doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u88	I know. It's all serious. We're not talking about it. Mrs. Gerovas, will you make use of the twenty minutes of your speech?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u89	You will allow me to ask you, Madam President, to be a little lenient.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u90	You have twenty minutes and then you have ten more.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u91	Perhaps in my first position I should also ask for some time from the second. Many issues have been raised from the general political scene and topical to issues of Ministry competence and not. For example, the ‘ENGINATION OF LEVEL’ is a public limited company. Its establishment plan is not submitted and is not approved by the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction. It is therefore not about the activities of the Ministry of Reconstruction. That was an example. More has been reported. You will allow me to begin with a small position, with regard to the timing, the timing, once again, that we are giving a multi-front fight to get the country out of the comitology, in which our works and days of predecessors were condemned, namely the New Democracy and the PASOK. We are going for a step - step by remaining committed to the goal we have set since September 2015, to get the country out of the crisis with society upright. One such step was the closure of the first evaluation. He's abducted the Opposition too! A second step was the activation of short-term debt measures. And that saddened the Opposition! Last week's Eurogroup illustrated once again the positive course of the Greek economy. And that's upset enough, we understand! From Portugal, the countries of the European South sent a message of solidarity to Greece. Against irrational requirements leading to the division of Europe, they called for the closure of the second assessment, within the framework of the European acquis, with respect for the rules and values resulting from the democratic principles and the Constitution of Greece. That is what the countries of the South did. And that saddened you, ladies and gentlemen! There's no reason for the risk around the evaluation. The European Commission has mentioned this today, which together with the European Central Bank, calls for the assessment to be completed as soon as possible. The vast majority of European partners have made it clear that they do not want an artificial revival of the crisis. And of course, I wouldn't say that the Opposition, particularly the Civic Opposition, would like the same. Whenever Mr. Shoeble asks for statements of submission from the Greek Government, you, fellow Members, are also asking for statements of submission from Greek society, calling on her to go back in full. Any delay in the closure of the assessment, of course, and it is not the responsibility of the Greek Government, as you are clearly trying to say, is a difference between the International Monetary Fund and the European institutions, as far as budgetary measures are concerned for which they are discussing after 2018. And of course while you have in the back of your mind dogmatic austerity, we say that the conditions for political agreement exist and we work intensively, together with the partners, in this direction, so that the quantitative relaxation programme and the plan that we have unfolded will follow. And, of course, for all this, we will be judged at the end of the four-year period. And of course in the middle, we will have put an end to all the practices of the past. As in the case of the various scenarios, a final scenario has been launched that we are looking for a hundred and eighty Members to vote on the measures. You know that the hundreds of fifty-three Members of the government will obviously not vote for preventive measures and fortunately the rest will not be sufficient to achieve this. The Greek people do not make sacrifices to see 'yes' in everything on the agenda.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u92	That was nice!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u93	It was nice, really! I'm going through this. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in this Chamber it is quite often a rhetoric that focuses mainly on the policy of impression and not on the policy of solutions, a rhetoric that focuses on the policy of diversification and conflict and of course not on finding a solution. Sometimes situations allow it or at least they can be tolerated. But there are other times, such as the time when we are living, when the continuation of such a practice offers very bad services. Reading the question put by the New Democracy colleagues, I first thought that my colleagues at last perceived the criticality of the situation, they want to check, to obtain explanations, answers, to be clearly informed, as is their right, of what is happening in the public sector and what changes are taking place. But while I heard all this, I found once again that they are going on the same pattern. So you come here today to talk about anxieties, opacity, party appointments from the government and, of course, throw away the wolves from above you - the Rusphetological treatment of the citizen - and you wear the question of innocent lambs. Except no one anymore believes you. You know, the Greek people have a memory. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall reply in detail, as I have to say, to everything that you have left us. I would, however, like to begin by pointing out to all those who gave you the idea of submitting such a question with such evidence, which, obviously, as you put it in your question, is not correct. As you know from history, they have formerly punished and fined those who reminded themselves of familiar evils, because the pharmacological nominations, the client state, opacity, anxieties, rumors are words and concepts that refer immediately to other times and to other governments, namely the New Democracy and the PASOK. Since post-population, for more than forty years, the governments in power have been incapable of organising a public administration that can respond to the demands of a modern state, a state with values of democracy, transparency and respect for the citizen, can respond to the values and needs of the modern economy and society. The materials you used for public administration were rousfetti, customer logic, phylocracy, anxiocracy and other related materials that you currently use in your vocabulary. Uber in the service, endless paper, supporting documents, suffering, indignation, almost mistreatment of the citizen. A state of counterproductive and dysproductive. However, after you drowned the country in the debt, in the last days of your Pompeii then, when the troika demanded reforms in public administration, what did the PASOK and the New Democracy coup d'état do? Without any overall planning, he interpreted in a logical faggot the demands for a reduction in the number of public sector staff, as if it had nothing to do with workers, as if they were not family workers, people who were trying to fight their daily lives. Cut 40% of the structures, cut teachers, teachers, school guards, cleaners, Municipal Police, shut down the ERT, get off the road to one night, thousands of workers and since, of course, you had slandered them "tubbles, spreading" and all that. Of course, you didn't stop there. When you realised that you were losing authority, Mr. Mitsotakis, as Minister at the time of the Administrative Reform, in a concept of "cutting and persecution", he allegedly attempted to build an evaluation system. In fact, and in the name of structural interventions, he organised a targeting and clearing system, a pogrom of redundancies and labour persecutions. These plans have been overturned by the Greek people, but today you bring them back to the memory of the world. Repeat the relevant evils. Why are you doing this? Because you are not looking to find a more decent political communication and you are carrying all this plaiting burden of the arrogant anti-government propaganda. So I do not think you will get any benefits and you can be sure that this will not happen, because the lie you now call the 'truth Agreement' - within introductory terms the word - has very short feet. Ladies and gentlemen, with our Qualified Opposition, we separate a fundamental difference in approach and, of course, a difference in ideology, because we are not a government of the least state. We are the government of the necessary state, the state that operates as a regulator of economic and social relations. Public administration is for us, firstly, a tool of democracy and secondly, a tool of development. I am explaining: a democratic tool, because it is the means through which the provisions of the Constitution and the laws and services of the citizens are channelled. Moreover, because in the context of governance it is becoming open and citizens are being involved in decision-making. A remarkable, transparent and participatory public administration, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, is the necessary component of a democratic state and makes citizens feel closer to the major critical issues. However, public administration is also a tool of development, of course, a tool that can stimulate entrepreneurship, stimulate new targeted investments, create innovative services, that is, support for the private sector, of course, defending the public interest. 2017 is a year of implementing such reforms. With firmly targeted steps, we change the image of the public. We are currently in the training phase of the Organisations of the Ministries and the supervised bodies, the work schedules of civil servants, so that we know where the administration is going, which is needed, and where there may be overcompensation for posts. Furthermore, in synergy with all operators, simplifications of procedures so that you do not need twenty documents and so many other signatures to deal with a simple case. In this context, the electronic handling of documents and digital signatures is also taking place, in order to limit bureaucracy and not to waste money, but also to endless hours of work. The aim was and is one: to stop the citizen from suffering and to be able to do his job with dignity. The opposition, of course, once again is confused. On the one hand we are bringing the bills, it does not vote, all the things we are discussing and on the other hand it blames us for delaying all this. I should also like to reply - since you were nervous, and you have not supported it - in the application of the Staff Regulations. The register, of course, contributes to the decommissioning of the public administration. They will not be placed in the choice and excellence of the respective government, but the most appropriate ones. And, of course, ladies and gentlemen, you have candy with excellence, we have not seen you voting in favour of it. As far as the new mobility system is concerned, the introduction of the mobility system, as it has been voted on, is undoubtedly an important innovation for public administration and that is why this system covers all the administrative positions in the public sector. Civil servants will have access for the first time to the vacant posts of the services which will be published three times a year and which will naturally be posted on the Ministry's site. This way of moving from one public service to another will take place in terms of sovereignty, transparency and on the basis of formal and substantive qualifications, that is, the end of the customer relations of the past. At the same time, the process of setting up the Special Selection Council for Heads has been completed. We shall shortly proceed with the necessary steps to ensure that the positions of responsibility are held. And of course you see that we did not follow the path that you have taken last time, i.e. within one night and while you knew that elections are coming and that you are losing them, you have been horizontally-general managers and you have placed yours. On what criteria? I ask you to answer me. So, are these the ones who then set general directors were the perfect or the good ones? Therefore, whether you like it or not, the public administration today is in the process of reform. And, of course, you have to understand it and leave criticism to the citizens. Another issue now, the attempted political deception. Invoke state enlargement and invoke evidence of this. In the first question contained in the question put, how did six hundred ninety thousand four hundred twenty-five employees in October 2015 amount to six hundred ninety-seven thousand twenty-six in 2016? Answer: You are not read. The number of ordinary civil servants, other than legal persons under private law, does not increase, but is reduced by two thousand percent by ninety-five employees. The total recruitment of regular staff from October 2015 to 2016 amounts to eight thousand two hundred and fifteen. Of these three hundred and three hundred four posts relate to recruitment in the implementation of irrevocable judicial decisions, five hundred one posts are recruitment to payroll services for the ATTs. According to the law, appointments to apply irrevocably judiciary decisions and to payroll services are not counted in rule one to five - one to four this year, one to three of the year - and as a result we violated the rule for one to five obviously false. On the other hand, the increase in total public temporary staff amounts to five thousand and ninety-five people. The increase in the state budget is two thousand and eleven people, of whom the thousand seven hundred eighty - eighty - one are located in bodies of the Ministry of Health. The remaining two thousand nine hundred and fifty-four relate to services carrying out co-financed programmes and not to the State budget. Let me ask myself, that is, the one thousand nine hundred, why is this the difference that eventually arises from health institutions, we have to fire them? Will you do it? We're going to another interest in what you've asked, and it's the famous topic of transfusals: By 31 October 2016, the number was two thousand ninety and concerns all posted civil servants of the State, not the Government. Of these, eighty-five are government and state bodies. The remaining two hundred and two hundred fourteen are posthumous in municipalities, regions and post-electees in MPs and Parliament's services. In November, because of the reshaping, the number fell, and in December, of course, because of the reshaping, the number increased, but not as you write in relation to the previous situation. Of course no one is entitled to speak of our children or the army of parties. Where do you support this? As when you're talking about increasing transfusions. I think you're just leaning on the terrain you knew and doing, because what did you do? You did the well-known trick, didn't record the number of retireds. You've actually recorded 1/3 of those who were actually in your governments. Until November 2015 in the Register of Recipients of the Greek State in the Work Relationship, only the mere posted officials were recorded and not all special advisers, i.e. special associates and scientific associates of Ministers, State Secretarys, General and Special Secretaries, all of them were not on the list of posters and do not appear to be paid by the State. In simple terms, you have constantly recorded a virtual reality that concealed the number of posters. I shall mention just one characteristic example. At the office of Minister of the previous government only to the Minister, not to the Deputy, State Secretary, Secretary-General, Secretary-General, etc., were serving fourteen special advisers, eight posters, four specialist scientific staff, two journalists, four four seconded, eleven staff at the CEDEFOP disposal, a total of fifty-three people. How much did they show up for? How much can we find on the list that says 'prudence'? Eight out of fifty three, the other ones hidden. So that is what we are doing today, the way we have dealt with them and put them all on a list, and today all fifty three would appear. We have consciously changed the methodology for absolute transparency. Why don't you do it? Question two. Asked how the increase in wage spending was explained in the first nine months of 2016 by EUR 146 million compared to 2015. They have, therefore, increased for two reasons: first, because of an increase in insurance contributions. Secondly, the application of a new accounting methodology according to the European accounting system by the General Accounting Office of the State. The effect is to classify, to record, that is, different costs of compensation within the "wages and wages". In any case, the increase resulting from the general government note for the nine months is 68 million and not 146, as you support the question. And your information, of course, is also wrong here and intentionally, probably, does not come from the updates. Question 3: Recruitment following irrevocable judicial decisions. Ladies and gentlemen, because when we sit at the negotiating table, we are really negotiating, we have managed to exclude one to five from the 'one to five' rule the recruitments resulting from irrevocable judicial decisions. It was your duty to have done so from the past, which you say you respect the judgments of justice. And of course, we don't hold people hostages to stack out of the office and beg. So because you failed there, you didn't even try to negotiate and now you're coming to blame us for it. Again the same propaganda. On the question of legal remedies, we have said nothing more than that the municipalities have the opportunity to choose what they will do. The same possibility for TAs in determining legal means for their contractors must also exist for industrial relations. What does that have to do with simulation? None. That's just science fiction. If Ottas accept a primary court ruling, why can't they adopt it? They're in their gratitude as parties. Are the primary courts not courts or have you no confidence in judgments?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u94	What do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u95	I'm talking about first-time decisions. Question four: Covering of cleanliness needs of the municipalities. It is worth making an endoscopy on the subject of prolongations. You have been very concerned over the years that you have given us a broken system of fixed-term employment relationships, contractors and many other patents, which only were aimed at one thing, the control of appointments and an excellent customer system. And to make it clear, we do not want to fragment labour relations. It is a serious dispute between us. It's one of the ideological ones. We don't want a job hostage. We want stable labour relations, not only in the public sector but also in general. We want transparency of recruitment and a rational system that you have not even thought of shaping. The government with absolute respect for the Constitution and related Union legislation is working on a solution to see the issue of the abuse of fixed-term contracts, those which all previous governments have created, for many years, by holding workers in sensitive areas of social services in hostage. Those who have created this huge problem, of course, cannot appear today as defenders of dignity and legitimacy, how much more of them become honourers of any attempt to manage in terms of protecting the rights of workers, but also of the public interest, and ultimately of the final solution to the issue. Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to refer here to another matter before I close my prototype. I would like to speak here, since we are in the Greek Parliament today and to refer to an issue that has been attempted to become a personal one. I am referring to a report by a Sunday newspaper, which I illegally served as a Member for three years now. The whole message - because it was a novel - argued that there was a non-conformity in the same person as a Member of Parliament - a doctor, a fellow member of the UN, a company committed to providing health services to the insured of the EEA. That was the charge. So this message was rushed to adopt by the opposition parties, the New Democracy, the Potami, after a little bit of the PASOK. I remind you that for days you have been assisting in the mud attack on my face. You tried through an attack on me personally to support the account of an unexistent moral advantage on the Left. And, of course, many fellow doctors, pharmacists from the opposition parties, who also have and have and have, and now have, corresponding conventions, did not stand up and, of course, did not speak when they had to. I shall therefore put forward three opinions on the Minutes today, three opinions. The one, which is very large, is of the Pan-Hellenic Medical Association on this matter. The second is from the constitutionalist, Mr. Akrita Kaitatzis, and the third is from the professor of the university, Mr. Spyridonas Flogiti. I put it in the Minutes to remove everything that has been said all this time. [[At this point, Minister Olga Gerovalis submits for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] All opinions state that there is no doctor inconsistent with the above activity, as annexed to the EEAS and MEP. So, ladies and gentlemen, of course, there is no question today because it was a matter of the past, but in the past I was legal and not illegal. But what did you do? Since you have not noticed - or consciously did not notice - what publications you have signed, I believe you have just done so because you have been struggling to poison the public once again with lies made by manufactured publications. And, of course, you did not offer service to either the House or your parties. The ones with the parentheses. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the claims made by the New Democracy about enlargement of the state are a well-known motto. The opposition, of course, did not want an effective state. Opposition just doesn't want a state. You have speeded up working with parties, such as the Action. You didn't tell us which programming agreement with them. I remind you of the positions of the Action for the economy. Action's declared political position: "The creation of a smaller, better and more flexible state, through the dramatic reduction of unnecessary public spending. And how is this reduction to be done?’. He continues: “With a substantial reduction in the number of civil servants, with the abolition of useless structures, wasteful bodies and the dismissal of their staff.” They say clearly what you are trying to hide in many ways. I would remind Mr Mitsotakis who was crying - after he fired - that he said that "I do not sleep at night because of redundancies, because I know people will lose their job. It's not easy from an emotional point of view. But if I have to sign, I will sign. The best thing I have to do is the best choice as to who should lose his job." This was in 2013. Later, he said the policy of redundancies was wrong and today in an interview "no redundancies will be made, but the ratio will be respected". Mr. Lazarides said other things. He said "we will not fire them, justice will fire them." When was it true? In the truth agreement, what is involved? So, ladies and gentlemen, let us be clear. Do we want public hospitals? Do we want public education? Do we need fire services? Do we want all the individuals to take it? To abolish the state. Because in all these recruitments you are referring to, you know that the majority of them are in this direction. We are therefore talking about a state that wants to redesign procedures, speed, transparency. We are talking about a state that, in the years of the crisis, instead of correcting it, decided to eliminate it. We are talking about a state with pathogens, but it changes because it is and will be its role, that is to always defend the public interest and give citizens the services they need to prosper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u96	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the above Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, twenty members of the Cultural Association of Selianites "The Sun". The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u97	We are now entering the circle of the parliamentary representatives. Mr Javarras, Member of the New Democracy Ilias, has the floor for twelve minutes. Mr. Javarra, would you like to take the time of your dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u98	We'll see, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u99	Starting and watching.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u100	You will simply treat us with a courtesy, Madam President. Thank you very much. I am sorry that, starting with my speech, I will express my deep regret, because the presence of the Minister at this step has disappointed us many times. As I will explain to you, Minister, in this high-value parliamentary procedure, a procedure for parliamentary scrutiny, you have been asked by the Qualified Opposition in order to enable you to answer and, indeed, answer not a question but a question. So the fact that you repeatedly and repeatedly answered a question, as you were saying, obviously means that you were not aware of the seriousness of this parliamentary instrument, with which we are invoking you. Just because there is a variance in the seriousness of Parliament's anti-Government parliamentary control, I would just like to point out to you - because I believe you are aware of this - that the parliamentary question to the Minister is a step ahead of reproach. But I saw that you, with great comfort, came to this Step and took advantage of the interview trial on hypothetical questions that some journalists had put to you either from headlines or from a alleged will of some journalistic opponents, to put you in a difficult position. We do not want to bring you into a difficult position today, but we have had the requirement from you, as respecting Parliament, and feeling the value and importance of the parliamentary control process, to bring us concrete answers to our question. It is not a question, it is a question, that is to say it is a question which also has a negative contribution. Unfortunately, however - I repeat - you have found the opportunity to speak to us, as you yourself have said, on issues of topicality and on matters relating to your personal affairs. Because you have forsaken the Civic Opposition for what a newspaper wrote to you, I will agree with you and obviously you are right and did not have to bring so many opinions to convince us about it. Indeed, the MP, after the abolition of the incompatibility, has the right to provide his services to any patient who happens to be insured with the EEAS. You don't offer services to EPPY. The services are provided by each Member of Parliament by a doctor to the patient. It's just that the patient, based on the insurance relationship that connects him to the EOPY, does not pay himself, but the EOPY pays. That's not a big deal. Another issue - for which I do not know if you have the relevant documents, which, if any, I would like you to submit - is if it is true - I do not know that you are causing me to go on with it - and if it has ever happened during your term of office, you have an exclusive service contract with a public legal person, i.e. a hospital, because it is changing the matter. The lawyers, whom you have consulted, should have told you that if a doctor, as a member of a fellow company, offers special benefits to a hospital such that the hospital is unable to offer them to the patients who come to it, because he has damaged a machine and this machine replaces it with a private service contract, then you have a problem. But I am neither a prosecutor for your business nor from this Step I would particularly like to address this issue. I would like you to believe that I recognise the right to represent the government, the government that has the confidence of the House and to have the privilege of responding to the National Representation at this time. Perhaps - I will also open up a parenthesis here - to have been lured from what a few days ago they have heard in this Chamber by the mouth of the President of this House himself. He told us that we don't have to overflow the deaf and look for what the Constitution says, but the one who finally legislates is the government. He who has the legislative initiative, so for the first and last reason, is the Minister. In fact, he said attributes: "They come to me in the President's office, various social groups, and they ask me to respond to their demands for a specific regulation, and all I can say is a good reason for the government. I disagree. With all due respect to the President of this House, I disagree with him. Why? I repeat this once again: in this Chamber, Madam President, people's sovereignty is exercised through the representatives of the Greek people. Legislative power is the only function which has democratic legitimacy. And if you at the moment have to feel the great obligation to answer specifically the questions contained in the question, you have this obligation, because you have been honoured with Parliament's confidence. Because in parliamentary democracy the government can only act when it has the confidence of the House. That is why, because I know that you are indeed an honest politician, I would certainly not like at least from this step, referring to and addressing you, to leave the slightest peak. But I am telling you with great respect and great respect that you have been miserable today. Why did you think that you were offered the opportunity to conquer your political opponents, while from you the House expected you to speak specifically about what the Qualified Opposition is testifying to the question, and I repeat, not on the question. Let's see what you didn't answer. Minister, the first point you had to deal with is cases that have been systematically, repeatedly and - I would say - in an obsessed manner, we have stigmatized the action of your Government and, above all, of your Ministry with certain methods of undeclared recruitment. Of course, you will tell me that it may have happened in the past and indeed, that you are not wrong. The question is - as the poet says - what you are saying here, from this particular position, about the particular behaviour of the government, about what it has the honour of enjoying Parliament's confidence. The previous governments have paid the price of what they did wrong. The point is to tell us whether you agree with the decisions of the Council of State and with all the arguments, arising from the scientific councils of this House, but also from this provision of Article 5 of the Constitution, which says that the government and you personally, as a competent Minister, should facilitate free and fair access to public positions and positions of citizens on the grounds of their personal value and competence. That is why you must apologise here, not what the previous governments have done. And I would like you to tell me about these amendments which have been unsuccessful, and which, at night and at the most, before the legislative work of this House is completed, you, as ministers and colleagues here in the Chamber, are also being systematically violated by the Constitution. And they violate the Constitution for the following reasons: first, they violate the provision of Rule 74, which says and imposes that every bill and a proposal for a law should be made to work for the committees first and then to vote in plenary. [[At this point, the end of the speech bell of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] Madam President, I would like some time, as you did at least with the previous speakers. So these specific amendments, in order to comply with the Constitution and with Articles 89 and 90 of the Rules of Procedure, should have been subjected to the double suffering of processing. But there are some wicked ones. They may have a virtuous intention, I don't exclude that. It may sometimes be that the intentions are good. But a democracy to operate, a parliamentary system to apply and, above all, to respond to these difficult times, which everyone has against politics and policies, should not only be, but also seem to be in agreement with all types of constitution. The Prime Minister said for you, on behalf of all colleagues, that it is every word from the Constitution of this state? And yet this Constitution is squeeze on it. There's no article you haven't trampled. Top case of the revision of the Constitution. Instead of starting this review through the House and from the House, in order to show your respect for popular sovereignty, you preferred to use the House as a decor of a prestige, which we still expect to see, at least if it had anything to do with the Prime Minister's serious intentions, to provide us with proposals to revise the Constitution. But there is another issue, which you will allow me, if I am still irresponsible, Madam President...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u101	Do you want the dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u102	Okay, I won't be upset. I'll have more tolerance to dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u103	Let's see how you complete it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u104	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u105	Madam President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u106	What it consists of.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u107	He recommends that Mr. Javaras asked if at that time there was a contract with a hospital, so it would not be lawful.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u108	There's no question of what I said. I don't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u109	I understand it, but I have to answer it. After you told us that the President of Parliament does not know who is legislating in this country, then you told us that I did not read that this was a question. I think that's just funny. As far as the staff are concerned, no hospital does contracts for when it spoils a machine and needs to carry a patient somewhere else. No one ever. If a machine fails and the hospital fails to provide the corresponding service at that time, after one of the opinions in writing says that it is not possible to do so today, because it ruined this and the patient is justified, then this is done by the hospital and it is in the choice of where to do it. As long as all of this is in place, then the expenditure is justified. If there's, like, proof that a machine is damaged, it'll move a patient. And the hospital is required to move to the nearest public, if there is - in the province, you know, it's not the nearest, at least not so easy - and to the respective private hospitals, usually do it alternately. Usually. It's not always possible. For other reasons. That answer was for this question. I, too, and the practice that I had at the time, never had a contract of this type with a public hospital.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u110	Sustained, accepted. It is simply because you raised this particular issue, which is why we have referred to it. We didn't have a problem. It's better that you've been given the chance now to make it clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u111	Okay, that's cleared up, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u112	Mr. Javarra, you have read well about the post. But you did not read the communication from the New Democracy. That's a problem, I think. That's how I find it. Because the New Democracy communication came out about an hour after the publication and adopted the post. You, Mr Javarra, have not read it or spoken to the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u113	All right, sometimes the parties are in a hurry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u114	New Democracy speaks inside me, so I'm not talking to New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u115	Ms Fotini Vakis, MP Corfu, as a parliamentary representative, has the floor for six minutes from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u116	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, let me not mention the truth of the figures today. The Minister responsible has responded with all the relevant information and with all due adequacy to the issues raised in the New Democracy topical question. In the short time that I have left, I would like to refer to the truth of the ideas, because today's debate, ladies and gentlemen, is not evaluably neutral. It is carried out on the slippery field on which two different ideological worlds collide. One of them is New Democracy and is extreme neoliberal. This world, therefore, wants to dismantle the social state, demolition of labour protection and is expressed through the systematic depreciation of the public sector and public service. The other ideological world is that of the Left, who believes in public goods, believes in social goods, public officials and wants access to public services of quality, transparency, accountability to the citizen, regardless of his purchasing power. In the neoliberal world of New Democracy, of course, the public is a brake. The European Union's role in this area is to ensure that the European Union is fully involved in the development of the internal market and in the development of economic and social cohesion. Because the aim of the New Democracy is clear, expressed as an auction and is not the merchandise of health, education and social protection. That is why, when you were government, you fired two and a half thousand teachers, made two thousand doctors available, fired eight hundred cleaners, a thousand five hundred school guards, while generalizing the scandalous contracts with cleaning, storage and other private providers in the public service. The redundancies, moreover, allow me, ladies and gentlemen, the expression, are the 'ideological fetish' of the New Democracy. Many of your colleagues, who are signing today's topical question, triumphed, for example, when their government then attempted to legislate on the punishing assessment of the public service by introducing the compulsory rate, a closed percentage, of a negative assessment of 15% of the officials of each public service. In fact, then, some of the current questioners were also pressing for direct, forced redundancies of this 15% of the rated civil servants for the renewal, as they said at the time, of the public labour force. For us, however, ladies and gentlemen, the public will never become the neoliberal "El Dorado", dream of some political forces. The Left believes in what you, in man, in human resources, in strong public service, in the social state. You again, above man, put the profit. This is the ideological current you represent and, of course, you match and you are completely in line with the International Monetary Fund and other ideological graves of neoliberalism. Of course, to promote your interests, you are not alone. You have allies of various canalarchs and publishers, who reproduce the well-known propaganda for the public and you expect a node for them to begin to repeat their misinterpretation. This fetish of redundancies in public unites you with these friends, canalarchs, publishers and all together, in chords, promote the well-known neoliberal agenda of the International Monetary Fund. With this world you are ideological and strategic. The Left is against them again. We are with the world of work, we are with the citizens who need the public hospital, with those who want to strengthen the public school, with those who support social goods. I would also like to make one final comment, however, because I have heard many colleagues from the New Democracy and other parties referring to rumbles and 'joints'. In fact, I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, who were those political forces that built the client state? Who are the parties that in Transmigration brought the rouspheti into science, with a recent sample of writing that shameful 4-2-1 in public? Who are those who sold out the public with party armies? Who appointed their villages, their personal customer register, as parliamentarians, to their best-beings in neurally sensitive public sectors? Was it SYRIZA or was it those who have been in power for for forty years? Let us not underestimate some in this Chamber the intelligence of the Greek people. Everyone knows which public you have created and everyone knows what public needs the country needs. Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue to protect public service and social goods. As much as the political forces of neoliberalism are pressing for redundancies, you will find yourself in front of you a wall. The Greek people know exactly what you want to do with the public. You did it a few years ago and would like, of course, to repeat it now. You want to make massive redundancies. Say it reluctantly and dare to deal with society. I would like to close with the following: I shall submit to the Minutes of the House the Leaf of the Official Journal of the Government of 11 May 2013, in which you chequed eighty thousand teachers, who planned mobilisations, for why? Against their dismissal. You remember that, I imagine. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Fotini Vakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] I would also like to deposit the FEK of July 26, 2013, with which you fired teachers with postgraduate and doctoral qualifications. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Fotini Vakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] Is this the excellence, ladies and gentlemen, that you keep beating excellence? But, obviously, this is where you are confusing. You've confused the good guys with the party adorables. Apparently, you'll remember that, too. Of course, it doesn't matter if you remember them. It is important that these policies are remembered by the Greek people and that is why it sent you to the place you are today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u117	Parliamentary spokesman for the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Panagiotis Eliopoulos, MP Magnesia for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u118	We have a number of issues here, which are running these days, and one of the main issues - perhaps the main one - is the war game that Turkey has set up in Imia, with a Greece simply bleaking a few words. In Imia, which the Greek Government and every Greek government should clearly take their place and say it is the Imia Greek and will remain Greek forever. But, of course, no one here, even on the false right, how much more than the so-called Left, would remember the Imia, would remember the Imian date, if the Turks did not remind you of them, who cruise these days around the Imian islands and took pictures and videos. When you were in your troubles and drinking your whiskeys, they were photographing the Imia background. This is the difference between the Greeks and the Turks today. You could, of course, go, even for the eyes of the world, to testify here, as proposed by our Chief, a wreath for the three heroes, to set up a monument for Panagiotis Vlahakos, for Christodoulloulos Karathanassis and Hector Yalossos - you have forgotten their names, because they have never even heard in this House, we had our Chief to remind them of them last year in a parliamentary group - to show that you remember the last heroes of Greece, those who fell because they were thrown by the Turks, when you said that the flag was carried away by the air. We didn't expect anything better than you. We had no such requirement. We're just saying it so the Greek people can hear it. Because the Greek people, you see, have no chance to hear the positions of the Golden Dawn. We did the day before yesterday a gathering of tens of thousands of Greeks, who bronze the word "Athens" for the Imian heroes and no channel showed anything. Only the ERT showed some footage on which thousands of Greeks seemed and the editor said they were only three hundred. In order for ERT to come to confirm its ideas today, as the new compass, imposed on us by SYRIZA, a singer who took him through the basements and smokes - Chakni, I mean - and made him a competitor at ERT, to immediately recommend - it says - a committee that will censor what will play and what will not be played by Golden Dawn, what will the Greek people hear from Nikolaos Michaeliakos, who represents more than half a million Greeks. Chucknis will tell us what he'll play from Michaloniaco and what he's not. There we have become with the government of these unprecedented, unofficial SYRIZA. Your friends - there's no one of you, of course - going into any building, I'll say it popular, they like it. Nowadays they also entered "AGEY", in your structure, which plays the pressing organization and runs the test on the media now. They also entered "AGEY" for the eyes of the world, while they had been invaded before the Ministry of Labour in the previous days, every day they go in and burning, they have devastated the universe and you have ordered the Greek Police not to touch them. This is where the Minister worked for us before. He went out, told us about the wind and water, told us that you would never hear "yes to everything". And we were told by those who have done 15 butts - lacking the Minister - and the particular government, representing a government that has made fifteen assumptuous, has brought the referendum backwards, has said 'yes' to everything, they are cooperatives with Shoeble, Merkel, the IMF, all those who have blamed for so many years. The Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy and the rapporteur of the New Democracy have come here to air because, of course, they have nothing to say. New Democracy has nothing to say, which in the past forty years has ruled four times and has exaggerated the public, along with its partners, the PASOK. They appointed whoever was speaking Greek and came to the office and said "I have thirty votes, I want you to appoint my daughter". That's not what the New Democracy knows. Soon the PASOK won't even know about it. And the PASOK will raise its hands up and say, yes, SYRIZA only enlarges the public, we're innocent. New Democracy says the same thing. Okay - he says - there have been some mistakes in the past, but what happens now. Of course, what now happens with the twenty-eight thousand SYRIZA recruitments. Of course, what now is happening with the shredders of SYRIZA, the Karanika type, which has filled us with all the Ministries and Secretariats. Of course, what happens with them, but we cannot forget and what has happened for so many years in PASOK and New Democracy. Do not come here and laugh at us and you work for reality and tell us that the Greek people must forget these appointments. You were anointing anyone who was passing outside your political office and giving you five more votes. We can't forget all this. Don't hide behind your finger. That's why you come here and you're on your way and Mr. Javarras tells us if it was a question or a question. Four minutes we were eaten by Mr Javarras - he came to the Chamber too - to tell us whether it is a question or a question. Because, of course, he had nothing to say to cover the disgrace that had been made in the New Democracy and PASOK over the last few years. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Madam President. I'll take the dentistry, too. SYRIZA, of course, continues, as continues its policy of the memorandum, the measures, the Siomple and all of them, as well as the political appointments. It does not give us any impression at all. They say the Golden Dawn has no seats. So we have positions for everything. We will say what has happened so far, when we are going to take over, because we are going to take over sometime. We'll see which organizations you've had and you've deceived them to sell. I'm talking about profitable agencies, like airports, OPAP, OSE, ports. You're reaping everything to sell. We'll find all this and bring it back to the public. Because no investor comes. Don't make fun of the world. There is no investor coming to buy fourteen airports that produce damage. Don't make fun of the Greek people. You're not that worthy to make fun of him. You just deceived them, you've reached a point where they couldn't go on and you bring someone who buys them over the years, supposedly to upgrade them and operate them and fruit the billions of money from what you've sold out. And a national government will come and find burnt land. That's what you want, but I hope you get ahead of things. To be clear - because we are not hiding - what Golden Dawn will do with the public, we are going to do an organogram. We'll see which positions are necessary. They do need to hire doctors. It is indeed necessary for teachers to be permanent and not to be this mess every year for who goes where. That's how our kids don't learn letters. However, there are public positions which have been created only to meet party needs. She's out of S.H.I.E.L.D. And these gentlemen, as paradoxically invaded the public, will do well to go home. The public will clean out of all these green, blue and - I don't know how to characterize you - pink girdles that you have put from your party offices and from your party environment and plunge the public forty years. So all these "Karanjkes" and all the others who voted for you to put them in public, will go home with the good.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u119	Mr. Heliopoulou, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u120	I'm done. The order and organization of the public can only be done with Golden Dawn. Let the Greek people understand this one hour ago, because in the end it will be irreversible if the'milk-green' policies that have destroyed Greece continue. It's only Golden Dawn that the place will fade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u121	I would like to inform you that the parliamentary representatives, other than that of the questioning party, do not have any dentistry. Time is six minutes. The speaker of the State of Democratic Incorporation, Mr Theocharopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u122	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, anyone who does not see the border to which the country has arrived today is closed in glass. The Greek economy loses its dynamism every day. Society lives in insecurity. With your policy, the vicious cycle of recession is growing and poverty is growing in large part of the population. The ruthless tax raid hurts everyone, it puts on entrepreneurship. There is no prospect of development. The young people and young people of the country are desperate, especially in these ages, unemployment is high. And in all of this, merit is sought. Because he has been mentioned, let us remembrance us that he really is two years ago, with his well-known style - he is not picking up a conversation - he said that it is every word of the Constitution. But when a law of his government was judged unconstitutional, your government attacked justice, because it decided on the basis of what the Constitution itself demands. What's going on in the end? Do you think we have an unwritten constitution? Did we become a country without a written constitution? And, of course, I referred to the then actions of the Ministry of State and something that has to do with the specific issue that we are discussing today, because we have seen that the last time Mr Pappas had not shown much. Today we see that it creates the Greek Space Service. So the Ministry of Digital Policy announces the creation of the Greek Space Service with the Minister of State Mr. Papa says attributes in his statements that "they do the self-evident thing, because it is simply unthinkable for our country not to have space service today". She's welcome. We will not tell you anything else and I will not do the plates that are currently being made everywhere for the establishment of this Greek Space Service. What can I say? You seem to have solved all the other problems, social policy services, and proceeded to the next stage. Now we understand why the Prime Minister said the country, the economy and growth are like the compressed spring, ready to launch. Instead of launching, there is, of course, the serious possibility of breaking the spring from the pressure exerted on it by the Greek Government, by the deadlocked policies that continue. So, SYRIZA's big words about transparency, evaluation, reform, conflicts with established attitudes, conflicts with client structures proved to be pre-electional fireworks that quickly erased, lies, called deceitful. Two years have been completed in governing the place by the SYRIZA - ANEL and we have not seen either a small touch of left-wing policy or a touch of social policy strengthening services to the citizen, a sign which shows that it claims to be a state with social cohesion, justice, solidarity, less bureaucratic, which will promote economic growth and meet the current needs of the citizen. No sign like that. Madam Minister, you were talking about ensuring stable, permanent jobs. Your Government has not made progress in any area of policy in structural reforms which could guarantee the development perspective. You have not even guaranteed jobs in negotiation. I'm talking about not lifting the restriction on team redundancies. I heard you say that you have ideological differences with New Democracy in work. I ask you: Where are ideological differences in practice? Because you are negotiating the lifting of the restriction of collective redundancies, limiting the group redundancies that had remained in the negotiations in previous years and had not been lifted and are now still on the table. You have not even succeeded in ensuring this point at the level of the negotiation. Are you going to tell me, of course, that only the government is to blame for this process? From the outset we have said that some partners have unacceptable demands. But this is being dealt with by a plan which should be presented to the partners by the government with effective alliances within the European Union to overturn these demands. In the last Eurogroup we saw Tsakalotos in Baroufakis' uniform living alone against all the countries of the European Union - this really happened - isolated, without creating any alliance for any matter. In the inability to negotiate effectively, therefore, the appointments of officials with party criteria, rushphetological provisions in bills and non-application of laws on recruitment in the public sector are to be added, and I mean not even your own laws. Do you really think these are steps towards democracy and transparency that you so often invoke? Or do you think that even so do you ensure proper and adequate staffed services that ensure the public interest and are based on an objective crisis system? And it is not too little for the bills in which they are created, without any overall plans and no matter what the cost, new structures whose role and responsibilities are impossible for anyone to understand. Instead of constantly establishing structures which in turn create dependent officials, why do you not strengthen institutions, such as the ADP, which is a pillar of sovereignty for the country, but do you also place existing ones on the contrary? And I ask you: Beyond the problems created by anxieties, to the citizens of this country, what motive will anyone come to invest their money in our country, when he sees what happens with customer relations in the state, but also in undermining any change, any reform at the moment? The government repeats and broadens mistakes that led the country to the crisis and the memos. The perception of power structures is predominant and not the creation of a worthwhile structure at all levels. This is a central problem, a central issue that you have to deal with. Concept that has nothing to do with the Left and which is not different from the logic prevailing in the period of governance of the New Democracy 2004-2009 and especially in the period 2007-2009, which increased the deficits and brought the crisis and the memoranda to the country. Even if you, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, have you tabled this question, which has some good information and actually asks questions, have you made some kind of self-criticistic about your period of governance? Even today, you refuse to assume your responsibilities for the destructive policies that have fuelled the public. On the one hand, you believe the market will solve everything itself and on the other, you are at the same time committed to the traditional logic of customer relations. This mixture won't get the country out of the crisis. On the contrary, it extends the deadlocks. You are also following today the stumbling of an opposition populism, as previously with the "Zapopea" of the New Democracy and as with the program of Thessaloniki of SYRIZA. Ladies and gentlemen, with indecisiveness, opacity and lack of assessment, a substantial and fair assessment, we will not be able to overcome the crisis. Is there a hope for this country? We say yes. But we need, here and now, a plan of progressive reforms, with solutions to bring society up, with harmonious coexistence, not with a public-private conflict, a conflict that, on the other hand, New Democracy and against the private sector, you in SYRIZA are trying to bring to the political scene of the country. The private economy also needs healthy entrepreneurship. Modern services are needed in the areas of social policy, not a dead-end policy for the recycling of poverty. Transparency and justice are needed, the functioning of adequacy structures and the establishment of a framework that ensures dignity and does not perpetuate the customer system.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u123	Finish, Mr. Theocharopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u124	I shall conclude, Madam President. Unfortunately, for the country, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, you do not have that idea. All you're interested in is that you control the state now. The system of customer relations and anxiecity, however, will only be stopped when brave reforms are agreed and sometimes politically costs too. Such reforms can only be achieved through political change, national understanding. The Democratic Reconciliation in this context is moving. We will not leave the citizens locked up in deadlocked policies. Greeks and Greeks don't deserve this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u125	I would ask all Members to keep each other annually. Mr Katsikis, Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, Member of Attica, has the floor for six minutes
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I was concerned when I learned that the Qualified Opposition has tabled a question on this subject, on which both the Minister and us today were invited to respond. Of course, I was concerned, when I attended the speakers, the rapporteur and the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, from this step forward to unleashing hybridist, slandering designations to the SYRIZA-ANEL Co-government. I was also given an answer why this timely question was tabled when I saw that those who had previously made redundancies of civil servants, trying to extinguish the bad image they had created, attacking the current government, accused her of recruiting illegally. In addition, the New Democracy colleagues were in need of deportation, after getting away from the context of the debate and the questions which compose the text of the timely question have been referred to hot spots, to the Pope and others, and also to such political acts that characterise the government as failure, frustration and unable to assume their own responsibilities. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, while I had prepared a written and oral reason, thinking that I should begin by differently, I was able to find it - with dignity, but - to counter the field of these slandering traits, saying that such timely questions I wonder why you do not post them in dictionaries next to the'memorality' article. Because that is what you are, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, merciless and fanatic, knowing you misled, fanatical, gobblers. While you know very well that ELSTAT measures employment rather than recruitment, you use its elements as you think they serve you. Besides, you do not know the difference between public recruitment and employment in general. However, because this is surely not the case, we have come to the conclusion that the use of the data adapted to the service of your own purposes is not appropriate. On this occasion, let me tell you that in addition to the reflection I felt in tabling your topical question, hearing you develop the concept of partyism, I was glad to see why we agreed on one thing. Regardless of whether SYRIZA and SYRIZA - ANEL have succeeded or failed in trying, we have to agree that it has been received partisanly from you. I think it is incomprehensible, therefore, to not know that the proportion of one to five relates to the recruitment of regular staff and not to the recruitment of regular staff, such as staff members and assistant teachers in schools, such as seasonal firefighters, such as temporary workers on hot spots, as they are employed in European public works programmes. But it was for you to consider it all permanent intakes in order to get the figures you made and the Minister disproved you. So I will not get tired of it by reference to numbers, as I said, in terms of honesty, Mrs Gerovacill. But your political persecution will not leave him in the unpredictable. How else is this attitude called, which, while you know has changed the methodology for the occurrence of transfusers, is now subject to any person occupying a position that is legally characterised as an abstract? For example, they are the Secretary-General, the Special Secretaries, the Scientific Associates, the Special Counsellors, which you insist is an increase in the recruitment of posted officials. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Madam President. It's not an increase, gentlemen, it's a recording of the reality and a revelation of your own falsified and virtual reality. But there must be an investigation into your obsession to demonize honesty. Is it possible to blame the SYRIZA Government - ANEL for an adequacy in assessing executives in positions of responsibility when your party strangled the provisions of Law 3839/2010, an attempt at even objective selection criteria by choosing to apply Law 4002/2011, which voted for the subsequent congress with you party and gave the Minister the absolute opportunity in his decision to appoint directors and divisions? Remember that! Is it possible to forget that night in December 2012, when Mr Samaras, the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. George Mavragans, coercived with the mandate of Mr. Samaras, then Minister of Finance, attempted to squash a hundred and sixty-six directors and tax department, placing your own children without any criteria at all within the Ministry of Finance's audit mechanism? Then you got the pan-Hellenic. How selective amnesia can you have, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy? Not that they got away with it, of course. You slowly mocked them and sprinkled all the responsibility positions. Our reaction to your authoritarianism and our effort to restore our sense of trust and rightly to the officials by establishing objective criteria for their assessment of positions of responsibility, you also charge it as a customer-state fabric. Have you ever heard of the expression'major judicial decision' before or not? When a judgment becomes irreversible, is it subject to any means of appeal?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u127	Mr. Katsiki, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u128	I shall conclude, Madam President. I'd like your patience and your kindness. Is the administration's obligation or not to execute it? Basic knowledge of jurisprudence freshmen is these. Mercy, gentlemen! You won't be riding anyone's logic. We'll resist and overthrow the dictatorship of moderates that you imposed on the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u129	Mr Marios Georgiadis, MP for Athens, has the floor from the Association of Centres. Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u130	Take advantage of me, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u131	He doesn't have any dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u132	No, we don't have any dentistry. Just your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u133	There's no tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is of course a guaranteed right from the Rules of Procedure for each party to exercise parliamentary control in any way they judge its members. But the New Democracy's tabling this specific question goes beyond any logic for any Greek who lives in this country and does not wear party bumpers, of course. In all the text of the question, yes, the logic is correct and the facts it describes exist, but it is obvious that the anguish you are displaying about the government's conduct of SYRIZA - ANEL overgrowth of the public sector with opacity and opacity. But you did not show the same anxiety and zeal when your own Members appointed thousands to the right and to the left according to your own governments. So, can a good-faithed person ask you the following question: In the 1970s, between 1974 and 1981, tens of thousands of recruits and the poster from your own party were becoming remarkable? Unfortunately, the only word that suits both the SYRIZA - ANEL Government and your own government and earlier in PASOK and so on is the Turkish word Rusphetti. Do you even know of an appointment of that time that has not been made with the so-called poolie by a Member or stateman? And if this seems far away, let's go to your most modern government, from 2004 to 2009, with the dozens of appointments to the public and the poster. How do you characterize that? The recruiting fabulous via stage. How do you characterize that? Between 2005 and 2009, New Democracy increased government spending from 44.6% to 53.9% of GDP, while the debt increased from 184 to 300 billion euros. It's called numbers. In fact, Greece's budgetary deficit reached 15.4% of GDP. I am tabling a relevant article and I shall table the Maastricht Treaty, where it says that the budget deficit must not exceed 3% if no one has read it. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And now we hear the same anxiety from the spokesman - who? - the creator of the modern client state, the teacher of populism, the yesterday's PASOK, who has been renamed a Democratic Compact to sound perhaps a little more pleasant and some not to remember what he has done to the public. How can we describe in the 1980s the hiring of tens of thousands of greens from the branches and all kinds of assignments? What can PASOK colleagues also tell us about the realization of the public sector or about the famous Enterprise Reconstruction Agency? Let me remind you that twenty-one public enterprises were made public at night with hundreds of thousands of civil servants, where all the PASOK trade unions were placed in administrative and administrative positions - cement industries, shipyards and so on. I am putting forward an article on this subject. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Let me remind you of the 'Shoveballs', where 29% of GDP of government expenditure reached 49% and on average the budget deficit was 10%? Let's go in October 2010. It was published by the Secretariat-General of Information Systems by the TECs' payroll data and in general by the public bodies. The Greek State then had eight hundred unsubstantiated entities in total of nine hundred and fifty-three. In other words, for about 50% we did not know how many employees they had, so how many people charged the state budget. Now we're going to nice numbers, to annual wages. It was about 100,000 euros a year for a DEPA employee. In Greek Petroleum was about 72,000 euros, in the DESFA it was about 60,000 and in many others it was over 40,000 euros a year. Not to mention the laughter, the OTE's maximum gross salary, which exceeds EUR 1,000,000! I submit a table in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Who is to blame for the current situation and the memos? Rather these bodies here and the smuggling of public money into public affairs and supplies from the so-called major parties and not the global economic crisis or the European Union. So leave all of you tears and anxiety about the state of government. You're all responsible. As the apologised Minos Koutsogiorgis said: "You are not entitled to speak." And these beautiful New Democracy and PASOK - so that you don't think from SYRIZA you'll get away with it - you've copied it and obtained a master's degree! In fact, when you refer to appointments, one is not enough, you appoint the whole family - to remind the staff of SYRIZA youth, who put his whole family out of the window and even had the courage to say that we are entitled to appoint her because my grandfather was a dissident and my grandmother EPPONITIS. For a reminder, I submit an article on this. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And how can he not do it, anyway? He took an example from the Prime Minister, where at the strategic planning office of the Prime Minister's General Secretariat in a very important position he appointed a man with his only qualification to be the refusal to join and serve the country. I am also making a relevant article. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] They are amazingly the criteria for appointments by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. You've become worthy followers of the past and certainly, if we sit here by night, we'll have to say a lot of things. The representative of the New Democracy also mentioned what is happening in hot spots, about the thousands of officials who do not even step on their feet and see many casualties. This is the opacity mechanism of SYRIZA right now, of anxiety and pheasyness. It wants to control more than public and channels and newspapers and banks, and I do not know what can be done in the future. And all right, SYRIZA doesn't do anything about the public, wants and remains the same and ignores it and he might want to swell it. You, as a New Democracy, say that you will come to power and will not make any redundancies, how will you bring economy, through evaluation? So, you're gonna track down the slow payroll and let them be in the public service? Is that the policy you will do or will you save from supplies with better negotiations than cards? The final conclusion to the action of all three of you - because I am referring to both PASOK and, more generally, to all the parties that have ruled the country from 1974 to today - is that above all the same unacceptable things you do and continue to do and have led us to this catastrophic course. We, as the Central Association, do not belong in Greece to the growth of the public sector. As the Association of Centres, we belong and defend production, labour, proud Greece, as are, for example, the officials who are now in Parliament, who are close to 21.00 hours an hour. They have families, too, to read their children, but they are here to help us in the parliamentary work. Meanwhile, you can go on if you want to make your show and the theatre by intercepting for each other's rosés. After all, when it reveals each other's rosés, both - or better, both - are right. Apart from that, however, what the political life of this place really needs is to be enriched by new procedures, by consensus procedures and to be revived with the culture of cooperation in governance. In other words, we must all take the big decision to create a universal government with greater participation in order to stop the gangran from depreciating the public sector, so that we can finally build a modern state and move forward with this place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u135	Mr George Mavrotas from Potami, Member of the Attica, has recently closed the circle of parliamentary representatives. Mr. Mavrot, I know you'll be consistent in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u136	I'll be more consistent. Thank you, Madam President. In our political system dominates the slightly altered Cartesian opinion: "I do, do I exist" or "I exist, to appoint"? One of the most important diseases of our political system is its clientele. And all the loan's going to give us if this pathogen is not corrected, we're going back to ourselves. Why? Because client system and merit are two concepts that are incompatible. We need the second one, but we are applying the first one. In modern states, the public plays the role of the ruler and the key service provider. If it's not properly staffed, he can't play that role. So when the positions in the public are taken as a result of acquaintance and not because of value, the state is looting in the hands of the rulers. In PASOK and New Democracy, the client state was indeed gigantic. That is why I say that the question of the New Democracy is missing the element of self-criticism. SYRIZA, however, came to power by beating the sword with which he would kill the dragon of the client system. But instead of killing him he became his best friend, feeding him inexorably. In their popular book "Why the nations fail" Angeloglou and Robinson say that the nations fail not so much because they do not have natural resources or human resources, but because they have closed and not open economic and political institutions. Enclosed institutions mean clearly a customer state, caught chairs, heterocracy, not equal opportunities, not open procedures, not transparency, not merit. That's the deepest cause of our bankruptcy. This has built PASOK and New Democracy for forty years - with some bright exceptions, but they have also been undermined from within - and now SYRIZA puts his own decor. But the citizen also has his responsibilities. He wants the politician who'll suit him, not who'll open his way to run, create, produce. To go to the famous Brain Drain, the reasons that our educated young people are not only economic, are mainly lack of merit. They are not all prepared to kiss party aprons, to find a place in a program, at a university or at a counselor's seat. So let us not pour crocodile tears when the procedures we have are customer-friendly, family-run, party-centric and not arrogant. The problem of unemployment is not solved by hiring people to the public. The public does need to serve the citizen properly, but the recruitment, transfers, secondments are made on the basis of the needs of the politicians rather than the needs of the public. Do we want scavengers? We hire road cleaners and then they become administrative. Do we want teachers and teachers? We hire and then they are seconded to universities, parties and ministries. By the way, we have asked since September how many teachers are seconded to ministries, parties and Members and we have not received a reply from the Ministry of Education. That's why the river says: no intakes without a contour location. The positions of the public shall be described, declared and seconded under the auspices of the AACC. Regarding posted officials, remember what Mr. Tsipras said when he took office as Prime Minister in his programming statements in 2015: "We directly disprove public administration from the armies of advisers and posted officials of ministers". But of the miracle, with successive decisions by the Ministerial Council, we have increased the number of specialist consultants and retired persons. The most recent were in the political office of the Minister of Culture, where three special advisers were recruited a month ago. Just a week ago, in Mr Papapa's political office, we have ten more, five advisers and five post-administrators. I do not believe that there will be astronauts, based on today's communication on the Greek space service. Anyway, "Let it be the power with us", which says in the "War of Stars"! In the central government, therefore, there are about seven hundred fifty posters, a moveable public within the public sector. Why? Don't we trust the civil servant, the public administration? And if it is a matter of trust, as many say, then ten to twenty per Ministry are several, not fifty or seventy, creating another delivery structure, short-lived public administration. Of course, posters and advisors are not paid according to their formal qualifications and pre-service, but are subsidized by 10 wage scales, for which a civil servant takes twenty years. And here we are talking about the obvious consultants, because there are also the secret contractors of the direct assignments. It is noteworthy and indicative that, as was reflected in the 2017 budget, only for five political offices, those of the Vice-President of the Government and of the four Ministers of State, we give EUR 1.8 million when for two research centres, the ERKE and the observatory, we give only EUR 1.5 million operating expenses. Potami, with a strong reaction to this regime, had tabled an amendment to the House to abolish the article of the "Law of Chochazopoulou", under which the political offices of the members of the government are public services. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like one more minute, Madam President. Also, there are procedures where recruitment rules are never clear, so that there is room for hostage for the parties concerned, appointments depend, not on their value but on their acquaintance, for example successive contracts, OAED, ESDP programmes, etc. Thus, in gray zones, the power of ministerial and parliamentary offices, state officials, trade unions, partyists and other players is pumped into power. That is why we insist that the role of ASAP should be upgraded to the processes and not be decorative. Potami submitted a full list of the hundred and twenty new bodies that the government created only in 2016, indicating that by giggling the client state at the same time it creates the conditions for new deficits. [[This is where the President-in-Office is occupying Mr Anastassios Kourakis.]] Also, in the last bill of 2016, a bill of seventeen articles, nineteen ministerial and twenty-six parliamentary amendments were added, most of which were aimed at the maintenance of the client state and the legalisation of the rosphet. Potami left this courting process, instead of virtually protesting on the one hand but voting reverently on the other, as some did. I only close two words about the current situation. Uncertainty is the ganger of the economy. As long as the evaluation is not closed, this gangrene is evolving and in the end we will have irreversible consequences and amputations, as happens when the gangrene goes ahead. The Europeans will not expect us to leave the government libo, which we have intercepted. If the government can't get the chestnuts out of the fire, say it. But now, because tomorrow will be too late. There's only been a few weeks in the keyboard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u137	Thank you Mr. George Mavrotas, Parliamentary Representative from the River. The circle of parliamentary representatives has been completed. We shall now proceed to the second language of Members of Parliament. Mr. Georgantas has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, starting with my prototype, I have pointed out something that I do not think has been understood. I told you that the New Democracy decided, after giving you the opportunity to highlight aspects of your legislative initiatives, but also other practices that violate the Constitution, the laws and all ethics, since, therefore, it gives you the right and the opportunity to answer specifically, to restore things. Your question has been known for twenty days. Questions are specific. Today, in my prototype, I asked for answers. I didn't get them. And it's not just that I didn't get some - it's your right not to give some - answers, but not all of the questions. Many questions require an answer. You did not answer how you explained the increase in the number of civil servants by eight thousand, and there is rule 5/1. You simply said: 'The permanent staff, other than legal persons under private law...'. In my question, I also refer to the staff of legal persons, all of whom are legal persons. Everyone is paid by the Greek taxpayer. Why these differentiations and these escapades? The number of civil servants, together with the staff of legal persons under private law, has therefore increased by eight thousand. You did not mention it in your reply. I told you about the increase in budgetary costs by 146 million, and you confessed by 68 million to wage costs and when there is 5/1 - five are leaving a hired person - you think you have no other answer. In other words, the public figure is normally limited daily on the basis of this restriction, wage costs are increased by 68 million, according to your version in the first nine months of 2016 - by 146 million, according to our version and the figures in the State General Accounting Office - and you cannot give an answer. With regard to the extensions of the contracts to the municipalities, did you give an answer? You gave an answer to the statements made by the Ministers that they would intervene with the Court of Auditors to overcome the problems in the payment of the contractors? Who gave you this right? Have you forgotten what Article 103 of the Constitution says? Have you forgotten what Article 95(5) of the Constitution says? You have not just forgotten the words of the Constitution here, but the whole articles! You said something about the posters. This new methodology and new application have been mentioned for a long time and you and Mr Vernardakis have been here. According to what you said, since October 2015 there is now a new application. I'll take it. So you know that since October 2015, with this new application for the first time, you are putting everyone in the number of retired people and those who are in the municipalities and serving anywhere else and not just in the central administration? According to Mr Vernardakis' answer, who also invoked this methodology - and I give his reply of February 2016 to the Minutes - the number of public, posted officials was in October 2015, a thousand five hundred seventy eighteen. Then there was a thousand eight hundred fourteen, a thousand nine hundred one, a thousand nine hundred forty-two, and now you said it was two thousand ninety-nine. By the same methodology, with the same application, in the same way as the thousand five hundred seventy-eight in one year became two thousand ninety-nine. I want an answer! [[At this point Mr Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But where I really want a substantial answer - because you have absolutely avoided mention - it is on the subject of parliamentary amendments, especially on the subject of building infrastructures. The Opposition denounces you, denounces twelve MPs in writing for twenty days that, contrary to decisions by the Ice Bay, your Government is coming, and accepts amendments that, without any legal basis, you are taking people into the public - contrary to specific decisions by the Ice Bay! - and you're avoiding answering? Answer me now! Judicial decisions which are irrevocable - and irrevocable are those to which they have been exhausted and three degrees of jurisdiction, such as the one I am referring to - have consequences for the administration and for the negative and positive consequences of compliance. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Minister, I gave you a chance, I give it to you for the second and last time. The new Republic is now determined not to allow an outright violation of the Constitution - I am ending, Mr President - of the relevant laws, but also of the judgments of the supreme courts. If you do not make your compliance directly as a minister of this government responsible for this matter, I think that we should now go to the judiciary to check their legitimacy and there to see whether an article of the Constitution, a law or a judicial decision has actually been violated. That's where I think you're forcing us to go, so everything can be judged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Mr. Georganta. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, twenty-eight students and students and two educational attendants from Dramas High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We're on our way to Mr. Make Voridis' dentology for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have to admit that there have been the government's reflexes very quickly because, in view of the issues raised in this question, there has been an immediate answer. The answer, ladies and gentlemen, was that a new public limited liability company is being set up, and indeed a very important item. It is the "Greek Space Service S.A.". So because we were discussing public enlargement today was an opportunity for us to build a space service! We made it and move on! Madam Minister, you have devoted your speech...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u141	It's an unsub.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u142	Yeah, yeah. It's an AE. It's enlargement because we don't have services. We cannot give this matter to the public. Let us build an S.A. there, which will of course be state and will, of course, go outside the rules in order to get recruitment! That's all. They are self-evident and are very useful. The fact, Minister, that you have decided to refer to various other issues in the major part of your speech - thirteen minutes you dealt with other issues - is to a certain extent understandable. And it is understandable why it has to do with the difficult position of the government. And indeed, when one hears the Prime Minister's commitments in this Chamber - it is the Prime Minister's - you just repeat them here, I suppose - who said that 'we will not vote for any other preventive measures, new preventive measures', a Prime Minister who has said everything he has said and done what he has done, I think that on grounds of urgency - one can be angry, but I am not angry - only with a smile can deal with them. When you hear that you won't vote for new preventive measures, slowly prepare yourself! This is coming! In any case, however, we must also be informed. The rhetoric of who are willing, who are not willing, who vote, who do not vote, what is that, what, 180 and all that is not our concern. In this you are absolutely on your own. You've made the negotiation. You are responsible for the product of the negotiation, and that, of course, means that you are taking the political consequences. You also had no kindness to tell us about all the issues that I have raised to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u143	I'll talk...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u144	"You've got" I said. Of what I've heard. Madam Minister, what I've heard. You spoke twenty-three minutes. Tell us something about this terrible practice of prolonging fixed-term contracts, which calls for unconstitutional and leads to mayor's violations of office and a failure to pay orders. You haven't had the kindness to tell us anything so far. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Thirty seconds, Mr. President. You know, I hope you're not addressing naives here. We are asking for appeals to be brought to the prima facie judgments. Because everyone who deals with these issues has a slight idea, I have to ask you a simple question: in the first judgment, the municipality is opposed to the workers and is defeated, the municipality is being lost universally. Do you know a party who, when defeated at first instance, does not appeal? Do you know anyone? Who's that?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u145	Does he have the discretion to do it or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u146	So I am directly answering. I'll tell you what's being driven, because here...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u147	He might want...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u148	Mr President, I am not tempted by slight interference, as long as we keep the time. So I am simply saying this, which is about self-evident. If the main party was to agree to the lawsuit against him, he didn't have to go to court. Let him have a deal in the first place. Apparently, to dispute, he disagrees with something. Do you know - and I ask you again - a disputed party is defeated to the first degree and indeed does not go to the second one? Answer: because this is not the case, Mr President, because this is not the case, what is happening is something that we all know. There is a structured approach, which goes to simulations, which is why the legislator had, before your own regulation, imposed the obligation for OTAs to bring an appeal to a higher judgement in order to have an appeal. So now you do not pretend here that you do not know what we are talking about. Also, do not act - with all due respect to the courts - that of course the first degree, especially in regional courts, especially in small courts, has an increased degree of pressure. Therefore, it would be very important to go to the appeal court that is removed from...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u149	Complete your thoughts, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u150	In fact, Mr President, in order not to be fooled, we have here, both in the first and second instances, and in what has been developed in detail by my colleagues - simulations, new clienteles, in violation of - I stress this because this is the important and specific constitutional forecasts. The Minister and the Government of Mr. Tsipras are accountable for this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u151	Mr. Bukouros has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, it has also been demonstrated in today's debate that the government is actually living on another planet. I hope that the space service, which you are setting up today, will land you soon in reality and I do not say it ironically. Here, you have tried to convince the Chamber that a first-class judicial decision must be dealt with as a final and final decision of a second or third-degree. You and the Parliamentary representative have tried to convince us that it is important in Greece today, if those who are employed in the public sector - whether general secretaries, special secretaries, or postgraduate officials, who you are recruiting a massive number, whether they are contractors whose contracts are renewed, or whatever form - it is something else, other than the economic situation, from the living reality of the whole of Greece, do not bear the burden on the Greek taxpayer. Madam Minister, I am sorry to see that you have come here and tried to answer a part of the timely question, but you have not answered any of what was heard in the Chamber by colleagues. You were out of the question the most time of your prototype. You'll allow me to justify myself, to say two words out of the question. You have claimed that the government has the support of the governments of the South, and this comes from the Lisbon Summit. Do you really support this argument? If that is the case, Minister, why are these same countries, Portugal, Spain, Italy, in the European institutions that participate, in the European Parliament, in the Commission, in the Eurogroup? Between you and me? We didn't see it reflected in any of it, but no decision at all. I would therefore say that you do not take into account the current circumstances in the country. There has been a popular reading of the scenario of bankruptcy and Grexit, Minister. And here we say we can do some recruitments that aren't permanent. Are you really saying this when only in 2016 were ten thousand more small and medium-sized enterprises, when you have literally kneeled the private sector, the trader, the craftsman, the farmer, the free professional scientist? Are we talking here about whether the poster from a thousand six hundred has reached two thousand and you justify it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u153	Please finish, Mr. Buquoir.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u154	You are honestly accountable, not to us or to your voters. You are accountable at this time to history - not you personally, your Government, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, too. On behalf of the government, the Minister for Administrative Reconstruction Mr. Gerovas. Ten minutes to you, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u156	Maybe less. A number of issues have indeed been raised which I did not answer before. I think it's two of them. In the rest, you know, Mr Georgioda, it is not planned to reread the numbers I read in my first speech. There are in the Minutes, however, for the repetition of whoever did not understand it. I would therefore like to respond to what Mr Vorides has said, but also to what you said, Mr Georgioda, in the case of building infrastructure. First of all, as far as the intervention, which is mentioned here, is concerned, the Court of Auditors, does not have these things. There is no intervention from the Court of Auditors. I am referring to the question of extensions of contracts and the question you have raised. Prolongations of contracts shall not be permanentisations. They're extensions of contracts. And we're confusing that. For the extensions of contracts, therefore, by very few Commissioners from all over Greece, there was a problem and they did not pay, perhaps with an opinion like the one you have read. However, most Commissioners in Greece paid. So there was a dimension between the Commissioners and that was obviously created because, I imagine, an interpretation. I am not a legal person, and I have no doubts about you that you know the legally very well, of course. There was a dimension. Most of the scholars paid. That is where various mayors also found themselves on the occasion of saying that they did not prolong contracts. A regulation has been tabled in the House, which resolves the question of the payment of extensions. No simulations. It's different things. And of course you said, Mr. Voridis, that the judges who are in the first instance are affected by the environment and do not make the right decisions. You said that just before. I think that wasn't the best you had to say about the first-time decisions. Otherwise, in all legal systems you obviously understand that you may know them better than I do. But I didn't expect you to say that. And I've explained that it's the mayor's right to move forward or not to move forward. No one is asking him whether or not he is going to move on to a second degree. As far as building infrastructure is concerned, I would remind you that there were two hundred and thirty-six posts in 2007 and 2008 from the former IPANOM twenty-four in 2002 and 2003. These, as you know, have merged into building infrastructure. In all, that is, two hundred fifty fixed-term positions. In particular, as regards the provision of Law No.4369/2016, the sixty-nine employees who joined were entitled to judicial decisions. The amendment of article 30 of Law 4439/2016 was tabled by the Communist Party of Greece, was voted by SYRIZA - ANEL, Communist Party of Greece, PASOK and Centroon Union and based on the above...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u157	What Minister accepted her?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u158	After SYRIZA voted for it, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u159	What Minister accepted her? The Minister accepts it, and then we vote on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u160	We agreed. Obviously, we agreed. I'm telling you about your memory the rest. Obviously, we agreed. That is how it was accepted and we voted for it. That's obvious.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u161	Is it your right to appoint whoever you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u162	Mr. Georgade!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u163	Contrast to the decision of the Ice Arrow? The Areos Ice said 'no'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u164	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u165	Mr. Georgioda, please! Let the Minister go on a little bit. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u166	Also, on the basis of this provision, the forty-four employees joined the Building Infrastructure and contrary to what you say in the question, the majority of seventy-six employees, are made up of RU and TE staff with highly qualified qualifications - engineers, mathematicians, economists, engineers - and IF employees.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u167	In what way, Minister? I'm really asking to know.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u168	What are you talking about? Did I open the post? I can explain that the positions of 2003 and 2006 have been declared and have been vindicated.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u169	It wasn't them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u170	All right now, Mr. Georgioda, please. Don't be so desperate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u171	Since 2002 it has been them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u172	Don't have a dialogue with this guy, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u173	The desperate and the indignant, let it go! Don't be indignant. In this respect, I didn't answer another question...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u174	Do you know how many undergraduate unemployed are waiting? Do you know what happened?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u175	Mr. Georgiod, it's not right what you're doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u176	Mr Georgioda, obviously my answers did not like you, and you obviously saw that this question did not come to your attention. Skeletons came out here from your wardrobes. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u177	I point out your responsibilities! Your responsibilities!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u178	Please, restrain yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u179	I'm the one who's here! Do you spit out the decisions of the Ice Arena and let me restrain myself?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u180	Throughout the debate on all the appointments that have been discussed here, what are out of the AACC and out of court proceedings and out of court decisions are only the posters. Looks like when you're sending me for posters to your offices or your parties, do I have to declare these posts? Well, let me know.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u181	Why? Do you publish them in your own offices?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u182	So we don't want to. We want to take our partners to the offices to work together. As you know - and you know - the partner and poster will obviously be the same political perception and will obviously be trust. It won't be from S.H.I.E.L.D. So for the only ones who...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u183	The increase, Minister? It's a thousand six hundred and two thousand.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u184	I would refer you to the minutes of the previous speech on the increase, to see that it is not, because you are using October figures and compare them to the next year, which in October had no government, because elections had been held. You're using lies in your numbers - I told you - you're using the wrong month, you're using in October. We had elections at the end of September, the ministers and the Members of Parliament did not have time. to get partners. Then they hired. Therefore, the only ones who were outside the AACC and outside the judiciary are the partners of civil servants or MPs and government, who will be so. That's the number I've answered. Reference has been made to the question of exemptions for mobility. Some exceptions have been made from the mobility system for very specific reasons. Attributes are management audit bodies, the Secretariat-General for Combating Corruption and in the same rationale as the Special Secretariat for Private Debt Management, so that the service, for the service, does not function unnecessarily, not for the centres to be established, for the units to be set up for the service and information of the citizens. Where it is envisaged directly to operate thirty such information centres for borrowers, something that Greek citizens expect to help them with the problem of overcompensation - and they are also a government commitment - these will be served with posted civil servants. Exceptions are made as to how the principle works. That is what I have to say, I think, to what you have asked. But I also wanted to say something else that has been heard here, because it has been done with an extensive ironic attitude in many respects with regard to the bill, tabled by the Minister of State, Mr Papapas. I would remind you, because it will come to Parliament at some point, that it is an incorporation of a European directive and you said that you are not so much with Europe perhaps. Can I take this?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u185	It's useful, Minister, it'll bring you back to reality!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u186	You also know our obligation to incorporate a directive. Therefore, ironies should be gone. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] In any case - I do not want any more time, Mr President - after all this and after all that has not proved to be the case on the questioners' side, Mr Javarra, I would like to close with this. Now a new project is being played: the incompetent and the skilled, who are unable to rule and who are capable. New Democracy and PASOK: Their inability, if not something else, brought us to the memorials and threw the country on the rocks. How did you become capable? What day? What time did you guys become capable of? I'm asking to know. Here to us, it will prove to be if we take the country out of the deadlocks at the end of the four-year period. Otherwise, you are not entitled to selfishness, you have destroyed the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u187	Mr. Javarra, do you want to say something?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u188	He's exhausted his dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u189	No, he's got the right to re-evaluate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u190	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Madam Minister, I am indeed overwhelmed to hear, especially from you, that the people who destroyed the country are the New Democracy and the PASOK, especially when it is tangible, grasping the reality, the rule of the country from your own party and ANELs with resentful data, and especially when you yourself have set the goal for the coming years to bring the country back where you received it at the end of 2014. So if this is not a question of competence or incompetence, tell me where it is being put. In particular, I would like to know whether you are proud of the six months of governance and the six months of negotiation by Mr Varoufakis. In particular, I would like to know whether you are proud of the fact that you are talking about New Democracy for the first time today, which I have heard you say that they are incapable of those who have ruled the place - when you have received - take note - on 20 February of a contract that you have made with the lenders and there is a statement registered at the highest level of the European Union that the Minister, Mr Varoufakis, recognizes then, but also the Prime Minister himself, made a very great, positive and effective effort to adapt. Do you want me to tell you something else? Also, when, before you signed the third memorandum, they led you to make a declaration of repentance - when the Prime Minister said that with the back on the wall he was trying to balance things out of the European Union. It would have been your job too, if it had been done. Of course, it has not been done because we have supported the so-called incompetent ones for you today. Then you also signed a declaration in which you acknowledged that there was a government in that country, the Government of New Democracy and PASOK, which had made very great efforts and had, indeed, succeeded in getting the country out of the big deficits and from the recession and handing it over to you with a slim, even growth. So don't raise that at the moment. Of course, I think you are doing so because, as many colleagues here say, you want to throw the matter away on another track. I wonder what's going on. Do you think that, with this type and this type of amendment coming to the House at night, what you achieve is to ensure guarantees of dignity? Is it worthy of driving illegal and unconstitutional people who have entered into a fixed-term contract and have done so precisely why are they not allowed to draw up contracts of indefinite duration? Firstly, why does the Constitution not allow Article 103 to do so? Secondly, it is precisely because these positions are those which are subsidised, which are financed with funds, which are intended to be used by the government to combat or reduce unemployment and combat poverty. Uh, should we be making permanent benefiting from these practices and leaving all those who need to work? And above all, Minister, they need people, who are of popular backgrounds, just as the Prime Minister said here a few days ago, they are people's children and they have doctoral qualifications, they actually have brilliant training evidence, and yet they are forced to go abroad. The day before yesterday there was a measurement, a survey and you saw that by a vast majority those who were questioned, what they prefer more than employment is democracy. That is why we have asked this very specific question, because there are unprecedented cases, not just of a customer nature, but, above all, a certain conscious effort by the government to lead this country to a state which is constantly increasing and increasing because the conditions are being unfairly and illegally created to perpetuate its presence in it, workers who are not entitled to that privilege. I shall conclude, Mr President. The amendments are something that should not normally be - if this spirit of the left were to exist - that this kind of legislation should be done with the amendments, because they grant privileges to certain categories. And I am not telling you that they are your clients party, but that is precisely the regulation, recognition and legalisation of privileged treatment in certain categories of persons, what distorts is the equal access of all those who have the value and the ability to hold public positions. But that's why you didn't tell us anything. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I too would like to hear from you, because you were indeed a professional, and in society you were active, on the market, and you know what it means to be involved in these kinds of productive processes, so what are these children who are waiting for? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Unfortunately, you have not responded to this until now. You have been counted - I will sign it and I will say it - and you have been poor and incompetent. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u191	Thank you, Mr. Javarra.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u192	Mr President, I would like to speak on a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u193	You can't.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u194	Mr. Vaki, you can't. Under the Rules of Procedure, the Minister has a trilogy and we are closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u195	Mr President, I would like to say a few words.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u196	Can it trilogize?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u197	He can answer if the Minister wants. He has the right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u198	Mr. Javarra, he has the right. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u199	I'll say a few things and I'll close. I think this has been covered. However, I would like to say here, Mr Javarra, that you spoke of extensions of contracts and not only what was not a new SAPA competition. I would remind you that the extensions of contracts are for the cleanliness to the municipalities, there is no other way to do something. We're talking about it and you're confronting me with the two masters and qualifications. Excuse me, are you meant for their cleanliness? Well, let me know.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u200	No, S.H.I.E.L.D.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u201	Apart from APAs, that is, only the cleanliness contracts of the municipalities are extended and not permanentisation. That's all. And you're confronting me with the two degrees, the three postgraduate degrees. Excuse me, in other competitions, the ones we're going to make on the basis of rules, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u202	You didn't realize. I was clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u203	Well, in any case, you have charged us with many amendments. We were here, before the 2015 elections, a hundred amendments on a bill night.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u204	You make thirty amendments every day.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u205	I remind you, because you were closing the chapters then everything would be an election and you'd be lost. Leave that to me. I do not want to say any more, I would just like to conclude by saying that all you said about the negotiation, and so on, that the agreement that our own government signed with the lenders is far from the longer-term surpluses that you agreed to and which would have put more than 20 billion to Greek citizens in three years' time. The 13 of them would be in taxation if we were to follow your programme that you agreed to. From this we Greek citizens have been relieved of 20 billion weights, because you have never really negotiated. You said "yes" to everything and you're ready to say it whenever you need to. So in our proposal, which we are fighting for the primary surpluses, you are announcing the proposal for 2% surpluses. So come here, ally in our negotiating effort, 3.5% to become like the Greek Government's proposal, i.e. 2.5% and 1% to return to taxation. Strengthen the voice of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u206	Thank you to the Minister for Administrative Reconstruction Mr Olga Gerovalis. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent question has been concluded....
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u207	I have a tritology, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u208	Minister Javara has been blocked in a trilogy, and the Minister is used to close. The debate on No 6/6/5-1-2017 is closed on the subject: "In a transparent and indecisive manner, the government is constantly growing the public." Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-30-S1-commons.u209	With the consent of the House at 21.32 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday, January 31, 2017, at 18.00 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
