ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House the topical and urgent question issue of Friday 8 September 2017. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP I Thessaloniki by the Radical Left Coalition Alexandros Triantafylides to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: ‘Court of red loans from borrower I Residence - Preferential status’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 1442/5-9-2017 of the New Democracy MP, Jasona Fotella, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on “Will a solution be finally given to the issue of AMIADIT?” 3. The question by No 1253/18-7-2017 of the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Kasidiaris to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Research and drilling for hydrocarbon deposits in the area south of Crete and in the Greek Exclusive Economic Zone."
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The Secretary-General of the Government, Mr Kalogerou, informs Parliament that the following topical questions will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the relevant Ministers: The first, with number 1386/4-9-2017, top-stage question from the MP Carditsa coalition of the Radical Left Mr. Chrysula Katsavras - Siropoulou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, concerning the promotion and support of collective production schemes, will not be discussed, due to the impediment of the Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr. Apostle. Because the government mission ahead of the IGC. The first time under number 1441/5-9-2017, a topical question from the New Democracy MP, Photinis Arabatzis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Our country from claiming Community support for producers", will also not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr Apostle. Because the government mission ahead of the IGC. Furthermore, the second question will not be discussed under number 1440/5-9-2017, the first question of the new Republic MP Kilkis Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios, on the planning of recruitment of all specializations in municipalities and the delays in updating the census due to the impediment of the Minister for Administrative Reconstruction Mr.Gerovasilis. Because the French president's visit - government mission. The second, with number 1357/29-8-2017, topical question for the second cycle of the MP Heraklion of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMARKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMK It's because of the workload. The third, with number 1329/28-8-2017, topical question from the Plenipotentiary of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr. Andreas Michaelides to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Completion of work for the formation and fence of an expropriated area at Chios airport and the construction of an extension of the Christos road", will also not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the Minister of Transport and Infrastructure, Mr. Spirtzi. It's because of the workload. The fourth under number 1114/29-6-2017 topical question by the Deputy of Serres of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMARMAR Mr.Michael Jeleli to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The creation of three new toll stations on the Promahona - Serres - Port of Thessaloniki is disastrous for the Prefecture of Serres", will not be discussed due to an impediment of the Minister of Transport and Infrastructure Mr. Spirtzi. It's because of the workload. And finally, the fifth under No 1248/18-7-2017 topical question by the Member of the Lesvos Parliamentary of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Stavros Tassos to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "To take immediate measures to compensate seismics and to restore the damage to Lesvos", will also not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Transport and Infrastructure Mr. Spirtzi. It's because of the workload.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity: 'Retirement regulations and other insurance provisions, strengthening the protection of workers, the rights of persons with disabilities and other provisions'. They have left to speak thirty-six Members. As you can see, we have to finish in a reasonable time. Yesterday it was agreed to close the sitting at 13.00 p.m. You realise that it is a little difficult to speak thirty-six Members in normal time. The proposal is to limit the speaking time to five minutes and the parliamentary representatives to ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u5	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u6	If the House accepts it, it is well. If you do not accept it, we shall proceed properly.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Mada, do you want to move on properly?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u8	What can I say, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u9	Keep the seven minute, Mr President, and we see.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u10	We will have a problem with the last speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u11	Mr. Teddy, what do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u12	Mr President, if you have the kindness, keep the seven minutes and around 11 a.m. to 11.30 a.m. we do a reposition, seeing how the debate is progressing, with the request of colleagues not to exceed seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u13	Okay. As we agreed, we'll re-install according to evolution. Mr Saridis, Member of the Centroon Association, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u14	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I have asked to speak in order to present these arguments, which have persuaded me to sign and table the amendment with a general number of 1234 and a special 84, which provides for the reimbursement of the sums paid to those who have been long-term volunteers who have paid unjustly double insurance contributions. Some of our fellow citizens have, therefore, paid for the same period of dual insurance contributions. No one disputes that, as no one realizes it is fair to repay their money. The story of their fair request proves that it is not enough to be right and to recognize it. You need to find your point in this Chamber. For the sake of briefness, I will begin the story from the point where the Greek Government recognized its mistake and stated its intention to correct it by law. In November 2014, then, the confrontation of the New Democracy - PASOK announced that it would bring this particular issue to parliament, in order to restore this injustice. In fact, on Friday, November 14, 2014, the then Deputy Finance Mr Stavuras announces with a press release a draft law entitled ‘Regulating pensions of the State and other provisions’. I shall read to you what was written in this press release: "The draft law includes pension provisions relating to members of the Armed Forces and the Security Bodies, according to which, among other things, the amount of insurance contributions paid by them for an ancillary pension to the EIF is at last assigned to the armed forces and to the shareholders concerned." I'm presenting it for the Minutes of the House. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Saridis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] These then heard, in November 2014, the long-term volunteers, who had paid unjustly double insurance contributions. The inability to elect the President of the Republic, however, followed the dissolution of Parliament, due to the opening of the early elections in January 2015, and thus lost their chance. That's how they lost their right. They have endured and their persistence has forced the new first SYRIZA conflict - ANLE to accept this law of their request as well and to commit to resolving it by legislating. In the following year, therefore, in the hot summer of 2015, the respected Mr Mardas as Deputy Minister of Finance then submitted a bill containing a corresponding provision according to which the double contributions to the beneficiaries would be reimbursed. In fact, on page 5 of the Effect Assessment Report, it is stated that in Article 2(4) of Mr Marda's draft law, it is laid down that the shareholders are obliged to reimburse to the beneficiaries themselves the sums paid, for cases where, during their term of office in the Armed Forces, despite the fact that they were insured in the IKA - EDF and the EIB, they also paid the corresponding insurance contributions to the funds. They had paid double contributions, that is. The amendment I ask you to support with your vote contains this provision by Mr Mardas. I present in the minutes the Report of the State General Accountant, the Relief Assessment Report, I present the Court of Auditors’ Special Report and the explanatory statement, submitted on 16 June 2015 and bearing the signatures of Mr Marda and Mr Skourletis. Elections were announced, again premature, and injustice remained. Since then these people have been struggling to hear, with no effect. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Saridis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] On the contrary, one of the many excuses they heard was that of lack of authority. After collecting dozens of response letters, which stated all sorts of incompetence, they finally got one that said that the Ministry, which is responsible for solving their problems, is the Ministry of Labour. This is the answer given to them in January 2017, to a question addressed in November 2016. I therefore reply in the minutes to the answer from the head of the office of the current Deputy Minister of Finance, which states: ‘As you know, until the vote of Mr.4387/2016, it was not possible to vote on the provision promoted by the Ministry of Finance to deal with the question of the reimbursement of the contributions to the remuneration of long-term volunteers paid twice to subsidiary insurance funds. Following the adoption of the above law, the initiative to promote legislation to deal with this matter is the responsibility of the Ministry of Labour and Social Solidarity....’. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Saridis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Therefore - to recapitalise - some of our fellow citizens have once paid us, without being liable, double insurance contributions to both the IKA and the equity funds. So they have been asking for this injustice to be restored for years and for their money to return. As I hope I have proved to you, there is a cross-party agreement on the law of their request. This money must be returned to them. No one disputes that. Unfortunately, however, while this injustice, this mistake - as you say it - is recognised and promised that they will solve it when it comes to doing things, they hide, they disappear. All of the Deputy Finance Ministers, from 2014 to January that passed, assured us of their intention to resolve the matter. Today, then, we will receive the answer of the Government and the Minister responsible for this matter. Mr Petropoulos should accept Amendment No 1234 and Amendment No 84, or explain why he does not accept it. Inside this Chamber, there are many who have promised that when they are given the opportunity, they will support the fair request of long-term volunteers... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] One more minute, Mr President, because this is a very important matter. ...to be reimbursed by the double contributions they have wrongly paid. And they will do that by voting. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, today you have the opportunity to restore a time-consuming injustice. If you do this, if you start correcting your injustices and honouring your promises, especially when you are presented with the opportunity in such a obvious and obvious way, as this amendment under number 1234, then perhaps citizens may begin to think that it is inappropriate to try, that it is not useless to claim their fairness, that it is not meaningless to hope. We are voting today on a bill that any of its charitable provisions, which we consider to be positive, require courage from the workers, courage to claim and fight, so that the worker does not leave night, as the poet says. The courage, therefore, which workers demand that the law being passed, will be easier to find if they know that the country's political leadership has the same courage to recognise when and to correct mistakes, to restore injustices. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. What we ask of the citizens, Minister, Mr Petropoulou, must be supported by actions. So I expect you to show us that you have the courage and the political will to go ahead accepting your obligation to correct the mistake, to restore injustice to the detriment of long-term volunteers. Minister, I ask you to accept the amendment to show that words have not lost their meaning. I ask you to accept the amendment to show that the government is not blackmailing. I ask you to accept the amendment to show that we have not lost our national sovereignty. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to vote in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, but my request is that the seven minutes of speaking time should really be seven minutes, because if we speak eight, nine or ten minutes, you realize that the latter will not speak. Mr Hatzidakis, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have lived since yesterday's government celebrations. This isn't the first time. It's a very common phenomenon. If you take them in cash, I have the impression that our homeland would not have passed over the last two and a half years just the economic crisis, but it would have turned into an economic superpower. That is what they want us to believe by SYRIZA and ANEL colleagues. So let's see why they celebrate yesterday and today. This bill is coming, it is supposed, among others, to correct errors of the SYRIZA Government itself - ANEL with the Katrugalos bill. Actually, that doesn't work either. Let us, for example, see supplementary pensions. There is no solution to the question of the mathematical formula, which is calculated, and so, close to the 40% reductions in supplementary pensions, from your own government, we also have a hundred and twenty-nine thousand pensioners, for whom you are supposed to care, who are waiting on the bench, on the line, in order to deal with the question of their supplementary pension. At the same time, this bill does not correct, to a very large extent, the injustices which you yourself have created. On the contrary, it creates new ones. He's taking steps backwards. For example, the increase in contributions to the Equity Fund is from 4% to 4.5% - in Article 21 - which leads to a simultaneous reduction in the remuneration of all these people. And of course, don't tell me that it's not a step backwards what the Minister is doing with EFCA. It was supposed to be a single insurance body, which would start from the beginning, a major reform, and there is no organisational plan here. There's nothing! With a global originality, the majority Members will, I suppose, give the Minister's authority today to correct the establishment plan in his place, to make continuous changes on her own, to sign them on her own, and to proceed on her own. This, in your view, is a modern concept of administration. Maybe it's us not to get it. Of course, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, Mr Chakalotos did not deny it at all - that the troika objects to some articles in this bill. I hope you do not bring in a few days later some of the provisions that will defy today's provisions. On the other hand, I think that you and you have this broken down. You will be clearing up these provisions again, celebrating again having taken on a fascinating victory. It's a tradition that we've been living in the last two and a half years. Ladies and gentlemen, since yesterday, you have always reiterated that you are the defenders of the poor. You, who rip your shirts every day for them who care about this category of our fellow citizens. Well, what do you want to make the poor, especially, Greeks forget? You want to make them forget that you promised a third pension and with the fourth memorandum you cut the twelfth. You want to make all workers forget that you were talking about a generation of 700 euros in complaints and reached the generation of 360 euros. You want to make them forget that you promised to increase wages well and finally the Minister celebrates that you have reduced them but a little. You want to make them forget that you had a red line at EUR 9 000 for the tax reduction, with Mr Tsakalotou, and you finally agreed on a sum of less than EUR 6 000 for the employees. You want to make them forget that you would stop leaving young people abroad, which has tripled. So I think you're investing in an overall and group Alchaheimer's to forget everything in order to regain the election. I'm cutting you off for a little bit of an advantage. As much as you ask. I see in the last few days that the Prime Minister has been trying to convince his Government - perhaps, himself above all - that he is making a turn on investment, but at the same time it is clear that the recesses are not enough. Greece must take a step towards entrepreneurship, private investment, private initiative. This jump cannot be done by you, because at the same time as the Prime Minister makes visits and various such communications movements, the investment in the Greek, for which you celebrated the Step one year ago, is frozen. At the same time, in Skouria you have blocked yourself the largest international investment that has been made in recent years in the country. At the same time, the Prime Minister, on his visit to a Greek company this week, talked contemptuously about the profit, so you would expect that the private economy can move without the incentive of profit. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that this government has been measured, weighed and found incomplete. You cannot do the main thing the place needs today to relaunch the economy and it has to do with private investment. Greece in 2007, which was not all magically, had investments as a percentage of gross national product, close to 27%. In 2016, with you triumphers, it had a percentage of private investment, as a percentage of GDP, at 11%. That is, dramatically reduced, low 20 years. It is not possible with these perceptions that the economy machine is going ahead, that new jobs are created, that a piece of money is put into the house, that the insurance problem can be tackled on a firm basis. The only thing you do with your stay in power, you who came as Robin of the poor, is to make the poor, the poorer. That's what you're doing. I don't even care about your intentions. What I see is the result and the result is completely negative, especially for the poorest Greeks. So the sooner you leave, the better it will be for the place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Theodores Fortsakis, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to start with something positive, so that we are not always grumpy. I should like to say that yesterday the European Public Law Agency celebrated its ten years and that two Presidents of the Republic - the Portuguese President and the Italian President - and our own President of the Republic and three professors of public law had come. In fact, the two Presidents came specifically for this ceremony and honoured with their presence and our organization and country. This is an organisation created on a Greek initiative at the initiative of the professor of Mr Flogaite. The organisation of this institution really honors Greece and always attracts the highest-level journalists in our country, in which it creates a dialogue step, which brings it to the forefront of the update of public law throughout Europe. I think it is worth saying a great deal of good to this body and to the initiatives it takes. Visits by the Presidents of the two republics are not the only ones. We know that today the President of the French Republic, Mr McCrone, who even brings with him a large financial staff, more than forty investors, as I read, the fifteen of whom are headed by very large French companies and, indeed, an opportunity is being created to get the country back on track. However, at the same time as we have such an opportunity and many can hope that something will happen, at the same time in our own country we have an extremely contradictory situation, where, on the one hand, we see we welcome the French President and his investors, but on the other hand, we are creating a climate that is extremely negative, which creates a huge concern for our ability to welcome such investments. The previous speaker said that. This perspective is included in a context which is extremely worrying because the government has not lost any chance to show that, not only does it support investment, but does what it can do to prevent it. It is imperative that this culture be changed immediately, otherwise anything positive could arise from visits, like the French President's today, at risk of evaporating and not even creating any results. Before entering the comment on today's bill, I would remind you that this extremely negative investment perception that exists in our country is now included in a very negative data-base, which on the one hand refers to government deficits and, on the other hand, to the implementation of the budget. The monthly bulletin of the general government of July 2017 was recently published and we see a significant increase in the government’s dues to private individuals. In other words, we really have the continuation of an internal attitude of payments. The dues for July alone increased by 340 million, with a total of more than 5.4 billion. In other words, we have a significant increase in relation to the previous months. I note that a number of important outstanding commitments are not included. And all of this while we had a disbursement of 7.7 billion from the known dose, of which 800 million had to go for payment in due time. I would remind you that it is a prerequisite to disburse another 800 million of this missing dose in order to move forward with the regulation that has been reached with public and creditors. Instead of paying back, however, we are constantly creating new debts, and this is money that is available from the European Support Facility and is not paid because we do not do the self-evident thing. For the implementation of the budget, I would remind you that the net revenue from January to July was 27.3 billion compared with 27.9 billion of the target. In other words, we have a quite significant delay and the biggest hole - and that is the worrying one - is focused on income tax, where we have 400 million less than we had to do. It is characteristic that all this year's revenue is lower than last year's revenue. Citizens can't afford any more taxes. One out of three didn't pay and he wouldn't be able to pay in the future. We are talking about sixty-seven thousand taxpayers and four million taxpayers who owe the tax of 5.5 billion. Let us not forget that there are another nine hundred and fifty thousand citizens and businesses who are constantly confiscating. These negative prospects are borne by the prospect of paying two more instalments of income tax, five instalments of HISPIA, traffic charges, VAT, etc. Citizens can't afford any more taxes. Today's bill is signed seventeenth on an endless series of arrangements within nineteen months, but unfortunately it remains a bill regulating second-hand issues. Of its importance were already stressed: firstly, it contains a provision confirming the introduction of a 0,45 repayment coefficient for each year of the AS’s insurance against new pensions, leading to reductions in ancillarys from 21% to 40%, while at the same time not giving any solution to the lack of objective of calculating supplementary pensions as from 1 January 2015, pending the issue of the relevant mathematical formula of the pension section after 1 January 2015. I note - it has already been said enough - that hundreds of twenty-nine thousand supplementary pensions of EUR 650 million are plundered by January 2015 for that very reason, but no one is moved. The contributions of the shareholders of the Equity Fund to civil servants are increased by another arrangement, with a corresponding reduction in their remuneration. There's two, three more settings. I shall tell you, Mr President, in less than a minute. Reduction of pension for military, police, port universities, doctors of the ESS paid by Law 4472/2017. Removal of the three-year limitation on pension claims against the State, while the five-year restriction on the exercise of rights to successive pensions is not abolished. Eurasian authorisation to the Minister of Labour for the merger and reconstruction of the ECA, with the result that we have a problem of constitutionality. Arrangement of a refund procedure for unpaid contributions and unequal treatment between individuals and public authorities, because the conditions for payment and reimbursement are different. The possibility of transferring officials between different bodies, with the ability of the Minister to regulate these issues, with a new issue of constitutionality. Finally, we are dealing with the working arrangements - and I am closing down with this - that the bill is heading completely wrong, because instead of providing positive stimulus to work, which we so much need, it follows a reasonable punishment, with severe penalties and a squeeze on businesses. It is really regrettable that at such a difficult time the government is not moved by the major problems and insists on a policy which has proved deadlocked and which is at risk of harming us even more in the days ahead. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, too. Mr Kedicoglou, Member of the New Democracy. Please respect the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, fine words, beautiful promises we have heard again from government lips at this meeting. In George Orwell's '1984' prophetic book, I recalled that there is a characteristic reference to the new language imposed by the regime, which alters the concept of words to serve the needs of the regime. For the last two and a half years we have been trying to translate the new language of SYRIZA - ANEL. And now we can. In everything the rulers have said, it's the exact opposite. So they gleaned power, declaring the sketching of the memorandum, to finally sign more and worse and so go on to their destructive government. The examples are many. The commitment to the EUR 9 000 tax, which ultimately dropped to EUR 6,000, the basic salary of EUR 750, which also fell to half, and indeed, in the form of elastic or even worse, the introductory tests that would be abolished and finally doubled. In total, there was no government commitment, either pre-election or post-election, which was not in practice disproved. The last proof is this bill, with which the promise of the thirteenth wage is made: a cut in the twelfth and twelfth, as is the case with pensions. So, after the EUR 360 generation, we also get to the pensioners of EUR 185. The Minister for Labour, of course, used the new language of the Government to tell us that 'This bill heals the wounds of the insurance system'. What is happening, of course, is that not only are they opening deeper wounds, but they are also affecting the prospects for recovery of the economy and for combating unemployment. It is not just the direct consequences of the bill, which are serious. Reductions in supplementary pensions can reach up to 40%, leading to thousands of pensioners desperately being retired. It's not just the puppy of freezing a hundred and twenty thousand pensions so that the results don't directly appear. You see, the new language of the government manages with words, but it has a problem with numbers. The biggest problem, however, is that the bill is in the wrong direction. The government does not just do the opposite of what it said. What he does is the opposite of what the economy needs, of what it needs, in the end, the place. The growth is not coming with tax and contribution increases. Ask President McCron, who comes today, how he plans to bring about a recovery in the French economy. Unemployment is not being combated by additional wage cuts, with part-time work, which has, on your day, exceeded normal work, with an artificial reduction in the number of people employed or with the departure of young people abroad, which has, on your day, tripled from 11% in 2015 to 33% in 2017. It is not against undeclared work solely by extermination and punishment. We have, for example, made the proposal for encouraging measures, with the creation of the White Paper of enterprises with exemplary work performance and will be rewarded by a reduction in contributions. The bill, despite the few minor exceptions we have no objections to vote on, is in the wrong direction, because the government fails to understand how a free economy works. And it is only natural that this is because entrepreneurship, the private sector, are foreign to the DNA of government officials. Here you do not understand that the repayment of debts to private individuals benefits the public. For every single euro that gives the public, they eventually return to the funds of 1,2 euros, and it is necessary for lenders to press you to return the sums due to private individuals. A characteristic example and explanation of the constant increases in taxes and contributions is how the government has designed budgetary equilibrium. Only 10% reductions in expenditure and 90% increases in taxes and contributions. Here I would remind you that, in the Samara government, balance has been made with 25% increases in taxes and contributions and 75% reductions in expenditure. And how not to happen, when you've broken every record of "days" contractors, brothers, cousins, grooms and other partners. It reminds me of a little quote from another book by George Orwell, the "Vegetable Farm", which says that "all animals are equal, but pigs are more equal than other animals". He's prophetic, we said, Orwell. You're talking about investments. Now it's your last discovery. You say that you have now understood their need, but you are doing anything to prevent them. The examples are many - previous speakers mentioned - Kassiopi, the Greek, the "Greek Chrysos". And we also have the Minister of State saying that he cannot absorb from the Yunger Fund because business plan is required - these are difficult things! - and he wants the revenues, the bills plus. I never understood where this "couple" fits. I would like Mr Flamouraris to explain this once. If the Minister thinks that these things are difficult, let them be left to those who know and can do so. And if you're still not ready to let the sweet chair, at least let the private sector do what it can. I have an example from my special homeland. Open a shipyard in Mandudi. They found tens of people in employment. You know, you need to see how a man's eyes are shining, who's been busy after years of unemployment. And now, a bureaucrat comes from the decentralised administration and despite the interventions and decentralised administration and the ministers of your government, the shipyard is closing. Dozens of people fly on the street. Who's doing it? A bureaucrat, who knows nothing about the operation, knows nothing about the area. How is that possible? In conclusion, don't you know, don't you? Well, surely you can't. And the sooner you leave, the better for the place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u21	Thank you for your respect for time, Mr Kedicoglou. Mr. Athanasios has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will confine myself to two, three comments on specific provisions of the bill. However, I should like to point out, first of all, that the draft law, as a legal text, is of little use to workers and pensioners, since its communication character in the light of the Thessaloniki International Exhibition, undoes any attempt to solve the problems that the government itself, with its current legislation, has created for workers and pensioners. The majority rapporteur did not respond, but the relevant ministers did not answer. What about thirty-five thousand overdue principal pensions that touch the sum of 1.4 billion euros? What about twenty-five thousand overdue supplementary pensions of 650,000 euros, while their unpaid retrospectives touch the 25 million euros? What about the time-limits of sixty-three thousand are the beneficiaries - where the debts are about 900,000,000? In other words, about three hundred thousand pensioners expect debts of EUR 3 billion. There are other issues which Mr Brutsis and Mr Denkias have raised with clarity and completeness, but also our other Members. Now I will say about the individual provisions, which I particularly wish to concentrate on. Take note, ladies and gentlemen, where these issues will be dealt with and what is actually being defrauded to workers? So you're talking about Article 49. ‘The discussion of litigation and regular appeals on disputes relating to void dismissal, late payment and late pay, shall be determined within sixty days of their deposit. If this debate is postponed, it shall be compulsory within 30 days.' This is the provision, as it is introduced. This provision, however, is designed to speed up the procedure of workers' actions within sixty days and thirty days, if deferred, is the definition of a word. A provision of this kind does not increase the resources available or reduces the material in which the courts are asked to respond. In the most likely case, the provision will remain inapplicable, otherwise other citizens will be wronged, as the courts will be forced to direct their resources towards labour disputes. So the judges of all other cases will go long. Why? Why don't you, Minister, take no steps towards genuine acceleration of the courts, even though the Code of Civil Procedure brought him to the vote a few months ago. In fact, a provision which is introduced after the recent amendment of the Code, which is not, because of objective weakness, especially in the big courts in the country, but which you are bringing it to a vote because you think that is how you are doing well for the workers, while in fact you are deceiving them. Why are you cheating on them? Firstly, you know that there is an objective failure to implement this provision. The Court's bottles with their existing potential cannot be imposed, especially in the large courts of the country. Secondly, if we assume that this provision is not applicable - which will not apply - it has no sanction either for the judge who determines the case or for the validity of the decision, which will be adopted after that period. What's the impact? No impact. But it's so good that you can look good. Furthermore, it is laid down that the decision must be published within 30 days of the debate. In particular, it refers to the provision that cases must be published within 30 days of the debate. But what if we don't? So, if it is not published, because of the burden of the judge in the case, the judgment will not be in existence or valid if it is later adopted? And in any case, the number of cases in the Chambers is an exclusive right, according to the Statute of Courts, which is a special provision, is lex specialis, under the jurisdiction of the Court of Justice. The Court of Justice cannot be required, if it has an objective weakness, because of its potential, to identify cases beyond its own possibilities. Therefore, the decision will, of course, be valid, but will not meet the requirements of the law, as you have put it, that it will be adopted soon, in order to satisfy the workers. That's why I said you're actually cheating on them. The same applies to the time limits laid down in Article 50(3), which relate to opportunities, I shall return to the next article. In Article 50 he wants great attention, and I wonder if the Minister for Justice had also been informed, that is, if he saw this provision. When we amend something, we should also have a legal oversight by amending a provision. We should know and what consequences does it have for provisions which apply and which are not abolished? What do you say in Article 50? 'In accordance with the provisions of Articles 623 and 636, a payment order may therefore be applied for...' - be aware - 'in the event that the contract of subordination is concluded and the amount of the salary is established by a public or private document or by a decision of interim measures'. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, but it is very serious and if the Minister for Justice can see them, so that they can be corrected. So let's see what Article 623 of the Rules of Procedure says to us. It states: 'In the specific procedure referred to in Articles...' may be requested to issue a payment order for financial claims or for the provision of manuscripts, provided that the claim and the amount due is shown by document'. This is the provision that applies. These are the prerequisites. However, under the imported Article 50, which I read, the conditions for issuing a payment order are limited to proof of the contract only and to the amount of the salary. But it is the agreed wage, which, of course, can arise from either the written contract of work or from evidence provided, etc. Others, therefore, are the agreed wages and other the wages due. In other words, it must be demonstrated that it is due to wages and the total amount due. It is not enough to pay the agreed wage because it may have been paid and therefore there is a need for proof. Because otherwise that makes all your thoughts even more unaware of you going to cover him, Minister. He says: ‘The work corresponding to the salary for which payment order is requested shall be presumed to have been provided’. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] But, you mean, we're introducing a fightable presumption? The other man will come to return to the court that no work has been provided. But what does that mean? It sounds pleasant to the worker's ears, but it's actually deception. Because, since it's a fighting presumption, it's going to create a number of arrests against the order of payment. Because the employer will come and he will say 'but no work has been given to me'. So here's an arrest against execution. The other opposition will be for the amount of the salary due, that is, for the wage paid, the employee.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u23	Finish, Mr. Athanasios, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u24	But when you say that about the agreed wage, you realise that it sounds good for the worker, but in fact, there is a deception, which must be understood by the workers. All this, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, these provisions are being made in the light of the Thessaloniki International Fair, but they are, in fact, nothing but a deception of the workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, too. Mr Kegeroglu, Member of the PASOK-DMAR Democratic Association, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u26	Thank you very much, Mr President. I am starting with a comment on the speech made yesterday by Minister Tsakalotou, who, instead of apologising and explaining for the policies he is following, takes the measures that cause enormous problems for each family, for the citizens, for small businesses, which make the lives of Greeks and Greeks even more difficult, came here to develop theories about Marx and other people. It was also mentioned in his ears, his ears, that they did not grow up, and indeed, because they have already gained such flexibility that they return after the many pulls they make him. But he did not say anything about either the nose, which is raised by lies, or about the tongue that has become too great. I come to the subject of the third evaluation, and it is just a few days before the debate we are having here in Parliament. It concerns workers, it concerns a number of issues, which are related to the social partners and the government, rather than looking after the restoration of social dialogue and consultation with the social partners, workers, employers, all the issues involved, it takes unilateral action. We call for the immediate restoration of the social dialogue, to which workers are also involved, who have been systematically excluded in recent years. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, amendments have been tabled on the part of the Government, tabled by Members, and by us, drafted provisions concerning the lifting of injustices caused by either the Katrugalo Law or other legislation from 2015 onwards. We are in favour of specific provisions, such as the amendment by Mr Vernardakis, concerning disabled people, concerning the points of reference in regions, municipalities, the monitoring of the contract, and we are in favour of the inclusion of the ESDP in the framework of promotion and, of course, of the Observatory of SME. It is positive that the provision that speaks about the equation of the sign language with the Greek language is positive. It's overthrowing, though. The same provision, as amended, reverses the parity of the signatories with the Greek. Two unscientific, in essence, terms. Political terms may be, technical terms may be, but they are unscientific in this particular case. Refers to pro-language users and post-language users. These should be deleted, ‘pre-linguistic’ deaf and ‘translinguistic’ deaf, and replaced by ‘for deaf and heavy occupants of signifying’. Just Greek, legally correct, and not by the use of those technical conditions to reverse the introductory provision, which recognizes the equivalence of meaning and of Greek. The Deaf Federation has sent us two days in information now, it has sent us to the Ministry, it is aware and has to accept this provision as political, legally and scientifically correct. Otherwise, we are legislating here with one provision, and we are dealing with another. We have the amendment, which relates to the OGA, in which we have been positive, provided that all the issues relating to the welfare policy of the Ministry are concentrated in the organization, otherwise it would not make any sense to establish it. Of course, provided the part concerning the social security of farmers is not weakened or strengthened by other human resources, because we have the phenomenon of the pensions of July, which should have been issued, Mr Petropoulos should not be bound even in December. This is a violation of law, because at the same time it does not give a temporary pension. It is possible, because of administrative delays or others, to apologise and say that pension performance is going deferred, but at the same time it is obliged to give even temporary. And he doesn't. We are in favour of these amendments, and we are clearly saying our opinion, as well as the amendment tabled by Mr Bardakis, concerning the LEADER of Heraklion, but obviously also other JHA of the country. We are positive and are asking the Minister to accept. It is Mr Bardakis' parliamentary amendment with a general number of 1243 and a special 95. We want the government to be placed on our own amendment with the same purity. Our amendment has six articles. Remove pension injustices, orphans, widows or widows. It is not possible to continue this repetitive attitude on the part of the Ministry. It needs to be changed immediately, injustice has to be lifted, justice has to be restored. There is no reason for the government not to take a stand. The second issue. Edition of pensions for AIFs, EAFRD and OGA, for people with outstanding debts. We ask for an increase of 15,000-20,000 in OAU and ETA to 35,000 in both OGA from 4,000 to 12,000. In any event, if an amount cannot be adjusted or cannot be paid, it may, on application for a provisional period, exempt from the calculation of the pension and, as soon as it is paid or adjusted, recalculated the pension. It is not possible for fifty thousand pensions to be pending only by this reason, for outstanding debts, which may be paid or may not be paid, but which have been paid for insurance, there are fifteen years, twenty-years, twenty-five years and because there is a problem for the rest of the ten years, they also lose twenty-five years of insurance contributions they have deposited. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] Mr President, I will move on faster. The third issue concerns the employment of pensioners, any pensioners, young pensioners, small farms or the phenomenon where we have to deal with one, two hours a week in KEK, IEK and the lifelong learning system due to the experience and knowledge of people, accumulated knowledge, which have been working in public or in other bodies. I think the Ministry should accept the amendment. We ask for it to be accepted, so that it does not have a pension cut if it does two hours a month a lesson in IEK, KEK or anything else. We've got the other issue, which has to do with the counts retrospectively. In recent times there has been excessive zeal to charge retroactive contributions, surcharges, fines, in cases where people had been exempted, that they are not required to be insured with the OGA, because they are insured in the OGA or another fund, and now retroactively they come to charge additional resources to them. Oh, no! [[At this point, the time bell is ringing again and again.]] We should see where the insured were well treated, i.e. where they had actually received this certificate, that there are no such counts.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u27	Mr. Kegerolwa, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u28	Mr President, I shall end with another point in our amendment, which concerns pensions for the period - I want to be precise - from 1 July 2015 to 12 May 2016, because of a rough system that was legislated by Parliament for the calculation of pensions, pensions of EUR 120 and EUR 150 are issued. This is very important and should be reviewed. And I conclude by saying again to the Government that it must be put in a responsible position in the amendments that we are tabling in all the provisions which are reasoned, which are scientifically substantiated, legally sound and which can really help at this juncture. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, too. For seven minutes, the New Democracy MP, Emmanuel Konsolas, speaks.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, many colleagues have stressed the fact that the bill is a communiqué of the Prime Minister, now that this great prestige in Thessaloniki is evolving. And it would be really extremely comfortable for him and for the fiesta, but also for the bill if at the outset no one found that provisions such as the trade union law on the proclamation of strikes with '50+1' and other provisions were included. Our rapporteur, Mr Brutsis, has analysed all aspects of the bill and we heard Mr Hatzidakis earlier asking the government - and I would also like to ask the Minister - whether this is a framework of a law which has been agreed on the third assessment. Allow me, Minister, from the outset to put two main questions concerning the bill. The first is: When do you intend to bring the arrangements for work that are prerequisites for the third assessment? Will you bring a bill back to the referee with the urgency procedure to be voted on at one night and to withdraw provisions that will be voted on today? When do you plan to close the third evaluation? The delay in closing the second assessment, you know very well that it has been linked to measures of 5.4 billion. This time, what will be the account you will send to the citizens from the new delay in closing the third evaluation? The second question you will allow me to put before you is whether the contents of the bill you are bringing today are a product of agreement and consultation with the institutions. Can you assure us that? But, above all, can you assure the House that you will not be forced to bring any more provisions that will dismantle the provisions that we are voting on today and amend them? They are two clear questions that we know about - because we have neither deceitful nor illusions - that we will not receive clean answers. We're sure of that. It is a pretext for the New Democracy by its rapporteur, but also by other colleagues, to put forward a creative criticism of the opposition and our attitude as well as Mr Brutsis and other colleagues. In the regulations that are in the right direction, the New Democracy will move in a positive and constructive way. However, as a whole, this bill contains fragmentary provisions and de minimis arrangements. The bill that, according to the government majority, has definite features, as Members of the majority have said, avoids confrontation with problems that the government itself creates for workers. On the other hand, the reduction of supplementary pensions from 21% to 40% is confirmed. You abolished the zero deficit clause that provided for reductions of only 7% to cut them to 40%. For thirty-three months now, you've been governmental. No supplementary pension has been approved. One hundred and twenty thousand beneficiaries expect supplementary pensions and their number increases with geometric progress. Isn't that what he's telling you? There are also new income cuts in the bill. Who are these? Isn't the increase in withholding on the Equity Fund from 4% to 4.5% cut? Who's gonna pay this raise? Aren't the workers going to pay for her with a withdrew, so with a pay cut? Another issue, ladies and gentlemen, is the functioning of the ECA, which should have had an operating organisation and a specific establishment plan for a year and a half. Why didn't the government do it? Quite simply, to bring in the specific provision that gives the Ministry's leadership the right to decide on the organizational chart, on the heads, on the managers, by abolishing all service, but also on the merits. I would like to make a reference to the fight against undeclared work, the objective of which can be a common area of cooperation and cooperation even now. The prerequisite, of course, is that you would build on what was good that the previous government gave you. Let me remind you that the previous government had received the undeclared work at 40.5% and handed it over after systematic checks and the proper functioning of the Labour Inspectors' College at 13.8%. I must also remind you that the 'ERGAN' was an essential tool, while the high fines of EUR 10 500 also worked. Incentives also need to be made, along with incentives for enterprises that comply with the law and employ legal workers. What would that be? The only reduction in contributions is an important incentive. Will you do it, Minister? Minister, there are failures in the bill, which you have also been told by bodies that you have worked with. They pointed them out to you both during the committee and at the meeting with them here in the House. For example, let me refer to Rule 38. This provides for the obligation to register overtime and overwork electronically in the information system ‘ERGANI’. To date, they have been declared in a manuscript whose compliance was compulsory for all enterprises and in which the worker's signature has always been binding. At the same time, however, there was on the employer's side and the obligation to register in the "ERGANE" system within the first fortnight of next month. Evidently, those who drafted this provision may not be aware of the peculiarities and malfunctions of businesses operating in the tourism sector, that is, where the needs are unpredictable and overtime are imposed by uncertain factors at any time. If there is, for example, a delay in a charter flight from abroad and overtime workers working in tourist businesses, as well as uncertain factors that occurred in the Kos earthquake, what does that mean? Does it mean that they will rush to declare overtime in the "ERGAN" system immediately the employer and the entrepreneur? And if they don't, will they be treated as offenders and the employer and the businessman? This means that small family businesses, Minister, should have on a 24-hour basis an accountant who spends at the same time with the reception employee in hotels or in small tourist businesses, working on a 24-hour basis to regulate these diseases. I believe that the earlier provision, which provided for the keeping of a book, which the worker signed, was rational. Madam Minister, this provision is inappropriate especially for businesses active in the tourism sector, and I would ask you to see it again even now. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Allow me, Mr President, for one more minute. I would like to refer to the article relating to the change in the process of electronic communication of voluntary retirement, with the aim of including the signature of the worker in Article 40. However, if the worker does not sign the contract, which is common, the employer must serve an out-of-court to the worker within two days of his departure and announce the departure the next day to the "ERGAN" system. What does that mean? We'll have lawyers, outlaws, lawyers, etc. And that's a pathogen. Ladies and gentlemen, no matter what efforts the government is making and with this bill, it will not delight in the affinity it creates and the reality that the Greek citizen lives in. It cannot hide new pensions of EUR 185 for a long time, the reduction of supplementary pensions, the salaries of EUR 360 that creates the EUR 360 generation. It's your creation, ladies and gentlemen of the government. Three years ago, Mr. Tsipras in Thessaloniki had supported and promised an increase in the basic salary, tax, pensions. It all turned out to be a lie. But lies end. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, even now I would like to ask you to incorporate at least the points made by Mr Brutsis and the other colleagues that we have tabled here. And you know, no one anymore believes that the government is a majority government. It is a minority government, which is kept in power purely from a state-of-the-art and mentality. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u31	Thank you. Mrs Urania Antonopoulou, Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. We are here to discuss the law that the Ministry of Labour has put forward, a law which is excellent in its attitude and suggests solutions to problems which concern workers. What is impressive is the obsession shown by the Qualifying Opposition in using inaccurate elements, inaccurate figures and distorting reality on a permanent basis. But it is not just the Civic Opposition. I have heard the very same repetition by other opposition parties. Our Minister said yesterday that you consider unemployment and employment to be a privileged area and you are constantly tabling figures which are disorientating the world and which ultimately do not apply. So let us repeat some of these figures clearly. Unemployed: The number of unemployed at the end of 2014, early 2015, was one million two hundred and thirty - one thousand. Is the unemployment problem now solved? Of course not. How many unemployed are today? There's a million thirty-five thousand. Does the Civic Opposition consider it improvement or deterioration on SYRIZA - ANEL? Unemployment rates: in May 2014 on the Minister of Mr. Brutsi and the New Democracy, because yesterday there was a controversy on this,...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u33	May what is it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u34	Excuse me, shall I finish?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u35	In January 2015 you must say.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u36	We will also come to January 2015. Firstly, you said yesterday, since you want to go to January 2015, that unemployment was at 25.4%. ELSTAT says 25.8%. Second, why are we going to May? Because the latest data from ELSTAT for 2017 is in May. And as Mr Brutsis knows, what we must always do is compare things. That is, in May 2014, May 2015, May 2017. The unemployment rate was 27.1% in May 2014 and 21.7% in May 2017 - so people know what we are talking about. If you want us to use the 2014 average, it was 26.5%. In the last year of our own government is 23.5%. Isn't it a fall in unemployment? But it is not enough to reduce unemployment, because the unemployed may stop looking for jobs. We must look at employment, how many jobs have been created. So let's go to relative numbers. In January 2014 there were three and a half million employees. In January 2015 there were three million thirty-five five, Mr. Brutsi. In other words, in a year, thirty-five thousand jobs were created in 2014. In 2014, the year of the success story, thirty-five thousand jobs. So let's go down. In January 2015, we have three million five hundred and thirty-five employees and we come today to three million seven hundred forty-five. I have nothing more to say. I need two more minutes, please, Mr President. You are talking about the part-time and the destruction that our own government has brought. I shall refer to data from 2013 and 2014 - to repeat them once again. In the new Republic - PASOK, parttime work is increased by 10.6 points. Do we still have a problem in 2015? Sure. It shall be increased by 2,8, 2016 by 2,3 and the first seven months of 2017 by 0,16. What do we say and repeat? We put a brake on the disaster you brought in. I deliver the relevant documents for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister, Mr Urania Antonopoulou, submits for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Thirdly, we are talking about wages and how much has been increased or reduced. Take a look at what ELSTAT tells us. ELSTAT every year looks at ten key sectors of the economy and records an increase or decrease in wages in these ten key sectors of our economy. Sector one: mining and quarrying. In 2014, with regard to wages, it was -2%. 2017 is +23.1%. Processing: Your time was -3.9%. Our time is +3.7%. Read your numbers and draw your conclusions. Finally, because many have referred to what is happening with the NRP, what it is absorbed and that we are not using the funds, I will tell you what is true of the Ministry of Labour. For the Ministry of Labour, as far as available resources are concerned, we are currently implementing programmes and we support unemployed people, having already absorbed and included 70% of the funds. As far as repayments are concerned, as Minister Haritsis says, Greece is the first in absorption. If you look inside Greece, which is the first in absorption at European level, the Ministry of Labour is located in 23.2% of the payments already made. I imagine these numbers tell you something, Mr. Brutsi. I would like to close by saying that opposition has still not understood and has not decided that there are some issues we cannot play with. We cannot play these micropolitical games on the back of the unemployed and on the back of society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Antonopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u38	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u39	Here, Mr. Dendia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since yesterday we have seen a parade of ministers here, in the hopeless effort of the government to create a climate. Let's sort things out, because they're flying numbers right and left, which have nothing to do with it. The government in 2012 with Minister Brutsis received unemployment at 27,91%. When you dropped the government, unemployment was at 25.4%. In the first half of disastrous governance - I would remind you of the times of Varoufakis - nonetheless, because of the previous measures, the declining unemployment by another 4% continued. So the shape to go from 10% to 14%, please, leave it. Secondly and above all, ladies and gentlemen, we have a government which has falsified the whole economy, which does not pay pensions, owes billions of money to private individuals, foreigners come and are forced to pay private individuals, and we can hear a picture of what is supposedly a government which has a record of absorption, efficiency, etc. Why don't we just leave the joke, ladies and gentlemen? We understand Thessaloniki. We cannot, however, create a dream world and believe it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u41	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u42	Mr President, I would just like to speak for a minute, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u43	Not now. It's not the process now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u44	Now it makes sense to answer it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u45	Mrs Antonopoulou, I would ask you not to hold a dialogue, because Mr Dendias will ask for the floor again. Here, Minister, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u46	Because you mentioned, Mr Dendia, that we are using 2010 numbers, I would simply remind you that today we are dealing with all the figures we have submitted for 2012, namely in June 2012. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u47	Mr Psychogios, Member of the SYRIZA, has the floor. Please respect the time, Mr. Psychoyer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u48	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin my intervention, seeking to respect both the time and be consistent, saying that for us in the left-wing world such bills are very important. You will allow me before I enter the contents of the bill to make two comments. The first is that this is the first bill on work which, after many years, contains purely protective provisions for workers. He doesn't find America or it's revolutionary. They are acquired rights which, in this way, stabilises and improves the position of the worker in the labour market. The second is about the Civic Antipolitics which, as in previous bills with the Local Health Units or others, operates deceptively against the bill. Of course, such rights of health, work and so on cause almost allergies in Civic Opposition. The Ministry of Labour, however, has shown that it is trying to defend labour rights, firstly, by reducing contributions to the weakest with EKKA, despite the limitations that existed from the memorandum, through the tough negotiation of labour over the previous period, by succeeding in gaining back the principle of expansion, but also the more favourable regulation for collective labour contracts since September 2018, as well as in this draft law introducing a series of positive provisions for the world of work. These provisions have also arisen from a wide consultation procedure with workers, trade unions and institutions. So, in the first chapter, in insurance, that is to say, farmers are benefiting because they can now buy off fictitious years at a low price. It is a constant request and problem of the rural world which is being solved. Similarly, it is very important to regulate EAFRD members with the decoupling of the insurance from status. This means that lawyers and engineers will now pay insurance contributions from the start of their business and for as long as it lasts and not from the fact that they have been registered with legal associations or TEs. In this context, we must also take account of the unemployment benefit that free professionals who are made redundant will now receive. Finally, sufferers benefit from mental illness, since they will be able to work without having a pension cut. The second chapter of the bill introduces protective labour regulations. It strengthens control mechanisms and strengthens the existing institutional framework in order to address the phenomenon of undeclared, declarant, uninsured and unpaid work. First of all, undeclared and undeclared work is the following: Temporary or definitive closure of the company in specific cases of breach of labour law, which will be imposed in an automated manner now. Obligation of the employer to register overtime before starting, electronically or through sms in the ‘ERGAN’ system. This modernises the current manuscript system that left room for violations. It is also provided for the obligation for an employer who performs a building or technical work to pre-indicate his workers on a daily basis. Something very important, which has to be mentioned, is that business's compliance with labour legislation is now conditional on their access to public money. State funding excludes companies which, over two years, have been subject to two or three serious infringements, which, of course, shows the direction in which we wish to give the assessment of operations. As far as unpaid work is concerned, the unemployed now who have considered a unilateral change in their terms of employment as redundancy will be able to receive an unemployment benefit immediately, and a short deadline is introduced for disputes on wages due and cancellation of redundancies, which we are all aware of what the problem has been with the workers. As far as other rights are concerned, the extension of special leave to parents with severe mental deprivation, Down Syndrome and autism is concerned. It extends protection against dismissal granted on grounds of maternity to natural mothers and to mothers who adopt or become adolescents, a phenomenon that was and usually blind. Finally, it is also important to change the institutional framework by protecting people with disabilities with respect to the UN International Convention on the Rights of SMUs. Apart from the protectionist provisions of the bill, however, I would like to refer to two amendments that we have tabled together with other SYRIZA colleagues. In its first amendment, the general number 1232 and special 84, it is now explicitly laid down that the exercise of the right to affiliate for the worker in the event of a late payment of accrued earnings cannot be considered by the employer as a voluntary withdrawal of the worker or as an implied termination of the contract of employment with him. In the second amendment, the general number 1231 and special 83, there is provision for the possibility of workers presenting a political appeal for paid pay and redundancies, a provision which is very important because it strengthens the position of workers during the criminal proceedings. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to conclude by saying that at the time we are fighting to rebuild the protection framework and reconstitute basic labour rights that have been circumvented or abolished, counter-population sees these essential provisions as a bill that is 'flying', 'low flight', which relates to'secondary topics','unilateral actions', as we had once said about the humanitarian crisis. And, of course, while we further enhance the role and move on to increasing positions in the Labour Inspectorate, the former Minister for Labour had forgotten that two hundred nine seats have been abolished in this House, including the Legal Support Department. I do not think it is accidental or negligible to abolish the Legal Department of such a neural corps for undeclared work. Obviously, we are across the street, because you choose and collide with the interests of the strong, the large companies, the highly profitable employers without rules. You obviously see and implement the complete deregulation of the labour market as an incentive for investments, which will not be disturbed by the fundamental provisions on social rights and the rule of law. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. In contrast, we are determined to restore dignity and rights to the workplace, but this requires awareness and organisation from the workers and society as a whole. Clearly we still have a long way to go. But society knows - and it is well aware of this, believe me, whatever you say, Mr President-in-Office - that in suffocating conditions we defend labour and the social state and you methodically and cynically deceived it all over the past few years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, too. We shall proceed with the next speaker, Mrs Karamanlis, Member of the New Democracy. Mrs Karamanlis, you have the floor, however, with the request to keep time in seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the bill under discussion has come with drum impacts and has been widely advertised as the bill protecting work and comes to close and heal the open wounds caused by the policies of the current SYRIZA - ANEL government. In practice, however, it proves to be a legislative initiative aimed at purely communication. It is obvious that it is part of the preparation of the Prime Minister's visit to the PMC or his return to the crime scene. You have now brought it, ladies and gentlemen of the government, to "gold the pill" to insured and retired people, whom you have crushed, so that the Prime Minister does not go to Thessaloniki with empty hands and empty arguments, but of course also to applaud your left audience that is constantly shrinking. You're in vain. The citizens have been burned again and again by your promises and by the measures that have been signed. They remember, among other things, pension reductions: those that have been made and those that you have voted for 2019. They remember the great insurance contributions. They remember team redundancies. So they are not moved by such purposes. The same scene of impressions, after all, you have attempted to stand in the field of education and said "As soon as we cannot tear down the memorials, let us abolish the pan-Hellenic exams". Without having any planning, without having done any work, you finally ended up in double elections and stayed re-tested. The same is the case with investments, where you are trying to convince us of your good intentions, in complete contradiction with what you are doing. And we are, of course, watching the Prime Minister in a daily show, discovering entrepreneurial and with a little delay, I would say, entrepreneurship. Since you have already expressed your admiration for investments, can you tell us how many jobs have been created by the famous Junker package, where our country's absorbance is in Nadir? Or better, how many jobs are lacking in the Greek economy because you are saying that you are helpless, through the oral Flambury, to make use of European resources? We also heard the Minister, who said nothing at all. He was messing with the numbers. It is an honorable attempt to promote a virtual reality for what is happening in the country, but what you are not saying is the continuation of the work, that is, what you are going to bring in the face of the third assessment and work. By passing now to the contents of the bill, beyond some trivial provisions you are trying to view, there are articles with a strong negative sign for insured and retired persons. One hundred and twenty thousand supplementary pension beneficiaries are expected in line with 1 January 2015 that no supplementary pension has been issued. One hundred and twenty thousand people remain locked, with their applications remaining in the drawer, waiting for the calculation method and the mathematical formula. Today, not only do you not unblock the process by bringing the formulae, but you are also moving towards a covert reduction in supplementary pensions. Reduced by 20% -40% will be supplementary pensions for those who have applied for retirement from 1 January 2015. There is another provision in the bill, which brings indirect reductions in pensions, and opens the way for wage reductions. It is about decoupling the personal difference that special wages receive from pension pay. Once this money ceases to be embedded in the remuneration accounted for as pensioners, fatality will lead to reductions in pensions for thousands of active teachers, military, police and doctors. Moreover, since personal differences have been substantially converted into an allowance, it becomes easier to abolish it. At the same time, of course, you are giving a gift to a portion of civil servants who are responsible for your days. Included is the pension liability allowance, even if they have not completed two years in a position of responsibility, even if they carry out assignments. So, not to forget our election clientele! Finally, a reduction in remuneration also entails an increase in contributions to the Equity Fund, with contributions increasing from 4% to 4.5%. So in a bill that you want to be your charity window, they have infiltrated measures that bring new reductions. You will allow me to refer to undeclared work, and I would like to believe that the will of the entire political system is shared to combat it. After two and a half years of governance you are swallowing the problem of undeclared work, without giving persuasive answers to the problems. It is worth recalling the interventions of the New Democracy Government that have drastically reduced undeclared work, first of all the creation of 'ERGANIS', a tool that strengthens transparency, justice and defence of workers and healthy businesses, and also the imposition of a strict fine of EUR 10,500 and a 6% reduction in contributions. These are measures that deviated the infrastability of the labour market, measures to which SYRIZA stood opposite and has been hard to criticise. All this, of course, before he wears his memorial suit. To sum up, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the bill brought by the Ministry of Labour cannot heal the injuries caused by this government to the pensioners and the insured. Any insignificant provisions contained in it shall be a drop in the ocean. When you have imposed exterminating contributions that have been embedded by freelance professionals, self-employed and farmers, when you have cut pensions and have condemned future pensioners, when you have caused strong injustices by abolishing widow’s pensions, when part-time work is the norm and you have created the generation of 360 euro workers, when you have created this unbearable reality for most Greeks, you cannot triumph and you cannot ignore it, nor can you hide it with cheap tricks. You do not give a solution to the deadlocks that you have created in society and the stealing of your government is emptied at a rapid rate and this course towards the exit is not interrupted either by fibers or disguises in Andreas Papandreou. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, too. Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor. Please keep the seven-minute time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u52	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, before I go to general terms, I will say that a parliamentary debate makes sense if there is any idea of asking questions and getting answers from the government. If they become parallel monologues, it is not very important. The rapporteur of the New Democracy came in yesterday and tabled an element that we received as the Samara government the undeclared work at 40% and delivered it to you at 13% and now it has returned to 40%. You have the following two possibilities, tell us if that's true or if it's a lie.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u53	That's not what he said. The last one didn't say.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u54	If it's true, tell us how much undeclared work today, Mr. Mada...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u55	I'll tell you what, okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u56	...to compare it to 2013 and see what you've done, because from words you're first, but from results you're a mess, so the Minister hasn't answered since yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u57	You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u58	Let's go now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u59	In 2014, you were a government, weren't you?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u60	In 2014 we handed you the undeclared work to 13%, we said and there was a whole electronic system for recording undeclared work, "ARTEMIS", one of the many things that you abolished and in which you do not post anything, so that the Greek people do not see your mess after you interrupt me. So, Minister, please note: How much is undeclared work today and why do you not post the "ARTEMIS" the facts or anywhere else you want? Why should the Greek people give faith in your fine words and not see it recorded, 'we did this', 'The Left Government fights undeclared work and others'? Secondly, I would like you to give me specific answers if you can: 'They will get the unemployment benefit for five months from these workers who remain unpaid by their companies'. Madam Minister, please, can you note what I'm asking you? Can you explain to me a little bit to understand which conditions, under which conditions and under which criteria this is given, so that I can see if there is to be circumvention and mismanagement of resources? I bring a very simple example: a business that is hard to deal with or is not hard to find, consults ten employees, says that they are unpaid, get the grand for five months and get some black under the table and they are all happy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u61	That's what you do, Mr. Georgiades! In the hole of your word...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u62	But there wasn't that! There was no possibility, Mr Colleague, that is what I am telling you. Madam Minister, can you tell us exactly how it is ensured that this measure that you are voting on is not circumvented? Can you give us an indicative figure on exactly how much it costs in the budget? How much money is that? How much will it cost? How much do you budget for? You're supposed to put the country's finances in order. You must tell us 'this article will cost so millions'. Do you have any such evidence to give us? If you don't have one, how do you vote? Thirdly, to come to the more specific, you have said - and I admit that when I read it at first in the articles, I said that it is probably a big change - that workers can, thanks to your bill for the first time, claim their jobs that are not paid by bad employers and by claiming personal property. On the other hand, while you are supposed to be making such a colossal change that did not exist, in the field of youth work there exists. Nobody's dealing with your article, nobody's upset, no one's bothered, so we're going to look into it, because I'm saying it's because these bad employers aren't worried about this colossal reform of the left government! I note, ladies and gentlemen, that once again you are mocking workers and the Greek people with beads and you think everyone is indigenous. Why? Of course, he could before this bill, to date normally claim his personal property by the CEO of the public limited company, the peer partner, and everything else. Of course he could! The only change you are making today - to agree - is that you are abolishing a stage of procedure. Until now to do so, he had to produce the certificate that they owe him these jobs. Now you tell him to do it automatically. Yes, sir! What will happen in practice to be recorded in the Minutes? The lawyers will love you! As soon as the worker does so under the law without paper, a good lawyer of his employer will seek opposition, because the debt has not been proven. He'll get the arrest and be added for the lawyer's legal matter - obviously for that you've done - and, secondly, an extra hardship to the worker. Congratulations! That's a great reform! And now we're going to politics. Madam Minister, I am trying to understand this: I am not going to stand in the yesterday's statement by Mr Tsakalotos that the troika has some objections - I am always traditional to them, namely institutions, etc. it's nonsense to make fun of the world, it was troika, it's troika, you fooled the world and they became institutions - and you said it didn't. You will find these among you when the third assessment comes. We'll see. But I'm actually going to do it, because we have to get to know each other. He says Mr Tsakalotos in an interview a few days ago: The aim is to finish the third assessment as quickly as possible. In the third assessment there is the change in the trade union law, ‘50+1’. The New Democracy, by its rapporteur, told you that it would vote. You completely took off the evaluation and the Ministry of Labour bill comes in. Why didn't you bring the trade union law change? Could you not spoil Mr. Tsipras's fieste at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition? Or you want to close the evaluation, so, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, you will also drink this bitter glass - you have it, you have proven - Mr. Theonas, a unionist from his youth, will vote for Greece without 50+1. Very good. After you vote for it to keep your chairs, Mr. Theonas, why didn't you vote for it a month earlier to send a signal to the markets that Greece is running, falling interest rates a little, enjoying the economy and saying that Tsipras is serious? Why don't you do it? I claim you're playing catacomb again. Don't laugh, Mr. Mada! Together we will vote when you bring it, with the difference that I was saying the same from my youth, while you, Mr Manda, said the same thing backwards. But it's a nice chair, so let's make it backwards, and you and Mr. Theonas laughing from behind. To reach agreement: we are not the same. We will vote for them because we believe them. You will vote for them to keep the parliamentary chair. That's our difference. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm closing, Mr. President. But the question is: If you intend, as you say, to close the evaluation, why don't you do it an hour ago to send a good signal to the markets? What is it that keeps you? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u64	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u65	Do you want a regular speech or an intervention?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u66	I want to answer some things because of your institutional position, Mr Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u67	Is that enough for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u68	Yes, Mr. President. For undeclared work the figures are: In the summer of 2012 undeclared work was 36%, in the summer of 2013 undeclared work was 40%. Evidently, "he caught a ceiling", after the entire protection framework was dissolved. When we received, undeclared work was close to 20%. The latest data available show 13% and the next report will also come out. The "ARTEMIS" works properly. You're not well informed. For the unemployment benefit, you are also not well informed, but I don't mind. Let's explain it. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr. Georgiades, if you ask me, it's good to hear me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u69	He's making his next answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u70	Accepted, accepted! At the moment, therefore, a worker who is made redundant or considers that he has given up a complaint of the contract of employment, that there is his dismissal, that is, that he is unemployed and that in order to obtain the unemployment benefit from the OAED, he should present to the OAED a primary judicial decision which justifies him and then receives the unemployment benefit retrospectively.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u71	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u72	If it is right, then what happens with this provision is a transfer of risk. It does not bring any financial impact, because the unemployed will receive the unemployment benefit from the first moment he will produce the statement and if the judicial decision does not justify it, he will be obliged to return it retroactively. So on the basis of the...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u73	But that's been happening in Greece for all these years.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u74	Mr Georgiadis, the report of the General Accounting Office of the State and the financial reports are based on the laws, as you well know. So, at the moment, what are the arrangements doing? And I think they're right about it. They are transferring the risk from the unemployed to the OAU, but they are changing nothing about the financial impact, because the unemployed person will get the allowance exactly when he needs it more, that is, when he leaves the company that does not pay him and will not get it retroactively afterwards. As far as its financial impact is concerned, however, it is exactly the same. That is why, Mr Brutsi, the State General Accounting Office, which has a full report on the bill - and it is not what you have been saying for days, and you see that I do not answer it, but you say it and you say it again - says that this provision does not give rise to a financial impact. Throughout the bill, when the General Accounting Office takes out its financial report, it comments on the provisions that cause a financial impact. Those who do not cause a financial impact do not comment on them. This does not, therefore, cause a financial impact. To finish with something else with the payment order, at the moment workers very rarely can make an execution order against the property of an employer of a natural or legal person, and that is what all lawyers who know about labour law know about it are aware of. They cannot make a payment order, an enforceable title against the employer's property for their jobs, because there are issues within the Code of Civil Procedure that are unsolved. We in the regulations we are dealing with these issues so that the worker can make a payment order from the next day to the detriment of the employer's or legal person's property. Evidently legal proceedings also have the opposition to the payment order, as in the other cases of payment orders, as is the case when you have a home that you rent and there is a pay order. The exact same thing will exist here. It's solid procedures. But where you see legal material, there we see workers who must finally have a weapon in their hands, because there are infinite cases of businesses and employers who do not pay while they have property and the legal person has property and he should pay them. These are for clarifications.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u75	Mr President, the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u76	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u77	Mr. Teddy, would you like an intervention for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u78	Yes, Mr. President. Madam Minister, the rest will be answered by my colleague. You will simply allow me, because it falls within my professional activity, even if I am not a worker, to Article 50 of the draft law, what you say to us is not the case. I do not know your CV, but I tell you directly, to write in the Minutes, that what you say does not apply. All you change here is the employee's ability to issue a payment order without proving the amount due and his non-payment. Mr Athanasios analysed them - it is not in the Chamber - previously. This will lead to mathematics in opposition and doubling the costs of the worker to collect his money. The employer's personal property is a feather, commonly, to say modern Greek, they are words of air, they have no difference and they could have no difference. Also, this regulation, whoever wrote it, is a regulation of the knee, is a change in the Code of Civil Procedure and should have serious legal systems that it does not have. It is unsatisfactory - I use market expressions to write in the Minutes - it is a barbaric deception of workers and in any case we will not forget in this Chamber all the five letters we know.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u79	Mr President, on personal grounds!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u80	Again?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u81	He referred to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u82	Mr. Brutsi, please. Tell us what the staff are.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u83	Mr President, in this critical bill on the subject of impressions - because of impressions - the Minister on undeclared work, which is the core of the bill, was personally mentioned to me in my previous capacity as Minister and undeclared work and its percentages. So I have to reply, because the Minister has given inaccurate evidence to the House, and I am obliged to defend myself and to restore the truth to both the eyes of Greek society and Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u84	Is that a minute enough?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u85	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u86	In your speech, Mr. Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u87	The SYRIZA MPs don't want me to talk. They're afraid of the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u88	You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u89	You'll talk on time!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u90	So I answer. Tie the time. I got the floor from the president. When you destroy democracy, then only you will stop me from speaking.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u91	You're stealing our time!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u92	To tell him in his speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u93	You're welcome, Mrs. Jufi.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u94	This is a parliament. I got the floor from the president.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u95	Talk on time and testify. You want a monologue. You say the same thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u96	Okay, let him talk for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u97	Mr President, take the time, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u98	All right, you got a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u99	Mr President, I have a diagram which the Minister has deplored and which I tabled to the House yesterday. Unemployment is 40.4%. The undeclared fell to 13.2%. Questions to the Minister are as follows: First, does he question this? Secondly, three years that it is government to tell me what it has done and what measure SYRIZA took for undeclared work. Thirdly, why hasn't it been publicized for three years?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u100	Please, what's the staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u101	And fourth question: What is the level of undeclared work today? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u102	Put it in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u103	You're stealing time!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u104	Please! Mr. Lazarides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u105	Mr President, the Minister has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u106	She'll answer her speech, Mr. Mada. A dialogue will begin that will not end. He'll answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u107	Don't get upset. Democracy is the opposite. What can we do? You don't like the adversary.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u108	You're making a mistake! You want a monologue!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u109	Please, Mr. Lazarides, start with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr President. Once again and what we did not hear in this Chamber! We heard about entrepreneurship, we heard about public - private sector and business by whom? Of those who destroyed the country and society. Those who overcrowded the country, took it to 120% and then took it to 180%, judge the effectiveness of this government. This government manages and tries to heal the injuries and raise the country on its feet by the actions of the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK. I have heard before that I do not remember any representative of the Officerial Response, who was talking about entrepreneurship and said that this government does not know about business, it is about private sector, etc. I am speaking to you, the Member of the Independent Greeks, who we, the Independent Greeks, are scientists freelance professionals and do not have a civil servant in our ranks, without this being reproaching public officials. In fact, some of us have been active in business and in the entrepreneurship that we practiced, as they did to all Greeks, the policies of these two parties have destroyed it. Of course, two hundred and fifty-two thousand businesses are closed down. Are we gonna forget about this? We can't forget it. The half-parliamentary group of Officers are civil servants. Why are they acting hypocritically against public officials? There are also electoral districts in Greece where all seats are occupied by MPs from the public. Again, I say - do not be misunderstood by our civil servants - that this is not reproached by civil servants. On the contrary, I respect and account for the civil servants, who most really exercise their duties consistently. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill, like all the bills coming, is trying to heal the deep wounds caused by the policies of the previous governments. With 28% unemployment delivered by the Samara - Venizelos government, no insurance system can stand up. There's no study. Whatever studies we read, we will not find such a percentage in any study. I had spoken with a distinguished worker - Mr Kutrumanis - who we discussed and told him this: is it envisaged anywhere in an unemployment study, namely to deal with the phenomenon of unemployment more than 15%? He said to me: 'No, nowhere'. They delivered unemployment to 28%. Instead of apologizing and in any case contributing to criticism - criticism by the opposition, which is the oxygen of democracy - they are trying lies to alter real events. Mechanics and lawyers, this bill everyone saw it positively. We have also heard their views. I'm an engineer. A engineer who does not pursue his professional activity does not pay the insurance contributions. It's very fair. And you know, because of the policies of these parties, since 2009, engineers have had no object because they have chosen to hit the construction sector, a sector that has been alive, which has maintained over two hundred fifty jobs. But you know, opposition has been embarrassed because all their opposition papers, all their opposition targets have been zeroed. This government is seeing that it has positive steps and is recognised internationally. They were trying to bring some evidence, and I will tell them about 2014: Since the economy was going so well, why did they not pass the assessment and escaped? Because the two parties escaped in 2014, the government of Samara - Venizelos and did not pass the evaluation. And this government, which they blame, passed two assessments and goes for a third assessment now. That's right. She came out on the markets, tried her strength and its effectiveness. Over half a unit, 0.6% less will be paid, thanks to this government, the Samara - Venizelos bonds. Is that a failure? It's a great success, no matter how much they try to reduce it. In 2014, they say it was a good year. I'm going to read you information from the chambers and from ELSTAT. 2014 was the worst year of the decade. The'standards' amounted to 1.8 billion or 1.8% of GDP. Failing from the 351 million in 2012 - I am reading it to you exactly as they exist in ELSTAT - it reached 700 million in 2013 and - hold on, ladies and gentlemen, to hear now where they went in the good year, 2014 - in 2014 from 700 million in 2013 they went to 1.8 billion. That was the good year, in 2014. That was the good year. And be careful, now here. Most of the bankruptcies we have in commerce, where we have 41% bankruptcies in the commercial sector. The New Democracy would then, if you remember, colleagues, and blame trade for being counterproductive, etc. I have accused this Step by many times of New Democracy of not having to do that in the commercial sector, because traditionally the merchants were supporting New Democracy. I see that time is running out, and I want to say something about news. I do not know why what was written in the 'Cyprian Republic' has not been projected at all, a newspaper which is not friendly to this government. No one referred to what the 'Cyprian Republic' came out of. "The lawsuit," he says, "hots PASOK and New Democracy" and takes out the light, the surface, because the Agricultural Bank was given to Piraeus, Sala. It says here, from the first page I read to you, "Since twenty-three days after the performance of the proclamation" - where by law the Agricultural Bank asked for the loans from these two parties to be paid for - "the two major parties decided to dismantle the bank and "grave it" to Piraeus. In order to escape, they have agreed with an amendment - shame that their annual funding is irresponsible." They tabled an amendment which made the grant inappropriate. Because they had been mortgaged in order to obtain loans, to obtain loans, to provide loans, to grant them subsidies. These subsidies that had been promised some years ago came here and with an amendment that made them irresponsible. Is that the honesty of these two parties? I'd like to read you through what he says. I'll read them to you, it's not my words. And he says: "New Democracy and PASOK decided to close the Agricultural Bank of Greece, holding 72% of their funding, to give it to Piraeus Bank and to steal substantially over 200 million, which should be returned". In particular, the loans from the New Democracy amounted to 240 million and about 220 million of PASOK. And continue and listen to the phrases: "Political mafia-based approach is unfolding in the multi-purpose action submitted by the Agricultural Bank in July 2012, on a newly established Government of Samaras - Venizelos - against the Greek State and the two political parties..." - there is an action by the Agricultural Bank against the two parties - "...when the then government decides to grant the healthy part of the Bank to Michal Sala's convenient Piraeus - together with their loans - instead of the incomplete amount of EUR 95 million". Look out, gentlemen. I want your attention. They gave the Agricultural Bank for 95 million in Piraeus, when only from the parties the Agricultural Bank was waiting for 200 million. If that's not a scandal, what is it? It's the definition of the scandal. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Your tolerance for less than a minute, Mr President. I continue and read them to you, ladies and gentlemen, so that no one can say that I am exaggerating: 'Twenty three days after the application was lodged, on July 26, 2012, they decided to dismantle the CAP' and assigned what I said before. 'The proceedings following successive postponements have been determined to be dealt with in mid-October at the Multilateral Court of Athens'. Now, this October, ladies and gentlemen. "It will be of great interest to see both the bank's attitude and, of course, the political parties. This will draw major conclusions from this." You know, these two parties were constantly postponed. What they were trying and what they were hoping for with the many postponements, we will see it and we will see if we get another postponement now. Please, I would like to table these in the Minutes. Here's the newspaper's first page, and here's the analysis of the facts. [[At this point, the Member, George Lazaridis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned articles, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As far as the bill is concerned, our rapporteur, Mr Papachristopoulos, has analysed it both in committee and in plenary. The bill is positive and the Independent Greeks support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, too. Mr Panagiotopoulos has the floor for seven minutes
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Mr President. Interestingly, the court report of “DIMMOCRATIA”, Mr. Comrade, but I suppose that if the lawsuit has gone ahead and what you wish, then the newspaper “DIMMOCRATIA” will be the first newspaper that will have thrown the Civic Opposition. It's going to be a global originality. But I do not want to devote thirty seconds to the bill and fifteen to the judiciary report. I want to talk about the bill. And I would like to say that, as always, ladies and gentlemen of the government majority, it is important to you that this is something that matters and not the reality. So, in these days, we have heard during the debate of the bill in committees and in plenary, among other things, that this bill improves the everyday life of workers and pensioners, that it is the first "friendly" bill. I guess the first "court" bill is what I think it is. However, I cannot say that it is the first "helping". It shows that you, the government majority, are with the workers, and therefore, not with employers, are dawning on a new day and a new normality on the labour market, etc. Of course, and the well-known fact that we, the rest of us - and especially ourselves in Civicism - are not entitled 'to speak', as one had said before about his political opponents. Well, that's what I'm saying. The reality, however, insists on and is quite different. I would like to make an introductory remark, as I will limit my introduction to the two axes of social security and employment. Introductorys, though. You, ladies and gentlemen, insist that you do not listen to anyone around you or listen to them in advance, such as the Single Independent Authority for Public Procurement, in which I recall that you have addressed an invitation to give an opinion on the famous article 41 on 31st-8-2017, that is, last Thursday, when the bill began to be discussed in committee. We were only informed yesterday to see the opinion, which was very interesting and extensive, as I have seen, of this committee on Article 41. You have completely ignored the Economic and Social Committee, the Committee, and especially the social partners. You have not even asked them to give an opinion, because of course they are not in the government majority, in other words they are not yours, so you do not care about their opinion. The social partners came to the debate and expressed serious reservations. The GSC has asked you the uncomfortable question about what is going to happen with the trade union law and the change in the framework and the strike movements that must, on the basis of the next assessment, come to the House to vote, implying that this legislative initiative is dictated by the political context and not substance and rather by certain purposes. The BSE, which you do not understand enough, is talking about technical arrangements of a secondary importance, with practical difficulties in implementing and adding bureaucracy, for example in the case of an advance electronic declaration of overtime, which will in practice create major bureaucratic issues. Accountants already have headaches and will certainly not cover the nature of this action by the employer, which is to cover emergencies which cannot be predicted in advance. GATT has ruined the climate of days with reports on the findings of its research on small and medium-sized enterprises in the days we are discussing. Amongst other things, one in four small businesses is in red because of debt. There is a risk of locking for thirteen thousand small and medium-sized enterprises. There is therefore a risk that twenty-five thousand and jobs will be lost. One in three companies is delaying the payment of wages. I assume that it will now comply with the amendment to the judicial procedure. 42.7% employs staff with flexible forms of employment and the new phenomenon for which I have not heard anything these days, Minister, next to undeclared employment is developing with particular intensity in specific occupations and the phenomenon of undeclared entrepreneurship. Thousands of undeclared professionals, because they can no longer be lawful and pay all the burdens you have imposed on them, are a reality. You have arranged - and rightly so - for engineers and lawyers occupational insurance and not property insurance. Although for me here, I believe that for the new scientist it is essential that he has a job and not that he should also have less and less contributions for himself. However, for undeclared professionals, the concealment of their professional activity is a one-way survival. And for the social security system, the FBI, it's a source of leakage and a loss of revenue. And as I said about the FBI, I come to social security, which is bleak. EFKA, the Katrugalu system that would shield - remember - social security for almost always in the country, is under collapse with debts and holes growing every day. You're saying with this bill you're correcting law injustices. Little bit of good, I say. The prospects of insurance for pensioners are far from optimistic. I am the one who is already in existence. The new pensions issued under the Katorugalos Act from 13-5-2016 and then, for civil servants with a high service time, insured IKAs with high wages, insured ex-TBEs with high contributions have been voted and will be increased in the next few months. Up to EUR 300 loss of personal differences paid, main and ancillary from 2019 onwards. Voted! Over 140,000 low pensioners will see new cuts in the NRP from 2018. There is a 10% reduction in supplementary pensions up to 40%. You put a 30% cap on it, but I do not think that creates a great deal of optimism. Approximately sixty-five thousand unfinished one, which will be reduced to 20%, when issued. There are hundreds of thousands of applicants for pension. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall make a few specific remarks - a slight tolerance, Mr President - for some of the questionable charitable provisions. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, takes over the presidential office.]] Article 41. Exclusion from public contracts or financing due to breaches of labour law. He is aware of the reservations of the independent authority which was only notified yesterday, as I said, in its thirteenth memo. They raise many issues that need further processing and correction. You didn't see them. I have put to the committee the issue of a vacancy in the event that the worker has recourse to the courts and is justified. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] However, I would like to make another crucial point of reflection. There is a risk here that there is a new scope for unfair trade between, on the one hand, the contractor, i.e. the private and, on the other hand, the Ministry of Labour and, in particular, the Labour Inspectorate. When the APR and, by extension, the Special Secretary or the Secretary-General of the Ministry, become regulators by this provision by issuing a certificate of access to public money for the contractor, you shall understand the risk that suddenly develops. I ask you to record it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u113	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u114	I shall conclude, Mr President. For Articles 49-51, to speed up the administration of justice in labour disputes, I do not know if it has been consulted with the Ministry of Justice or the judges, the judiciary. Here supposedly the amendment of the Code of Civil Procedure is one of the objects of the Legislative Committee of the Ministry of Justice and comes as a prerequisite for implementation in September 2017. You bring some changes here and there, either by amendments or articles, scattered into bills. Have you contacted the Justice Department? So I do not know if you have contacted the Minister. I know, however, that the amendment of the Code of Civil Procedure that entered will add an extra burden to an already overloaded system of trial in the small civil courts, i.e. the Peace Court and the Monomele. New material will be created with a wave of requests for payment orders for wages due, as well as opportunities from the stumblers, and in practice this will create a further problem. Thank you for your tolerance, Mr President. I'll be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u115	Don't thank me, hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u116	In conclusion, this is a bill with fragmentary, secondary regulations with a apparent punishment rather than a preventive treatment of violations as a dispersal of theoretically charitable provisions, whose practical application is extremely questionable. You on the only path to creating new jobs and maintaining existing jobs on better terms - not more jobs alone, but better jobs - do not recognise that there is only the way to approaching investment funds. There, however, your existential problems begin. The Prime Minister speaks of investment, but the movementist SYRIZA undermines them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u117	Please, Mr. Panayotopoulos, hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u118	Parliamentary SYRIZA says they're with the workers...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u119	Shut up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u120	...without bothering to distinguish between good and bad employers. Of course, the government's SYRIZA...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u121	Mr. Panayotopoulos, do you hear the Bureau?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u122	That's not how it's done. Thank you, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u123	Yes, thank me, but you have to close.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u124	It's important the story, but the story has stopped to sound, it's tired of the audience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u125	Well, what was heard yesterday was going to try to finish at 13:00, forget it. There's no way. They have two, three ministers, the main minister and two others, three parliamentarians and twenty colleagues. Even if all colleagues were to be deleted voluntarily, only the ministers and parliamentarians want one and a half hours and at least three quarters for the vote, it is two hours. This is therefore annulled. We're on our way. All right, we would love - whoever wanted - to be present at the wreath deposit by Mr. McCron, but the plenary will do its job and Mr. McCrone will do his job. Therefore, we continue to do so properly.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u126	So we're going to exhaust the list?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u127	Mr President, I asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u128	Okay, I'm sorry, Mr. Mada. Before you go to Stepma, Mr. Manda...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u129	Mr President, Minister Haritsis has also asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u130	Let me chair. I know. I have contacted the Minister. That's why I told Mr. Manda that I beg him to sit down for a while. Well, the Minister will not now make her speech, but she wants, in order to facilitate the services and get the ballot out of the ballot, to say about the legislative improvements and to say which amendments she makes acceptable.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u131	Not now. Some Members should speak, and then I'll tell them. I won't be long.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u132	Yeah, but don't leave it to me for the end. I've explained that the services need some time to pull out the inner ear. After Mr Mada, you will come to the Step for these two things, the legislative and the amendments. Make your speech whenever you want. Mr. Mada, come on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u133	Mr President, you said that the list would be exhausted. So we're going this afternoon.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u134	Yeah, unless some colleagues want to erase themselves.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u135	So the whole Bureau is going to get rid of the list.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u136	Yes, of course. There's no other way. We can't practically finish at 13:00. Therefore, since we do not finish at 13.00 hours, I cannot restrict my colleagues. That also applies to the next one from me. Unless some people want to erase themselves. Mr. Mada, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u137	We agree with the procedure you are proposing, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. In this bill one thing I have heard, and I will say what else I have heard, it is too many designations. He almost stared at it. What a communication they said, what a hemostatic they said, what a pussy they said, what an inappropriate thing they said. Everything's been said. Why, is that so? Systemically, of course, apart from exceptions, in particular from the standpoint of Anti-Population, they refused to refer to the specific articles of the bill. And I make a provision, when we get to the specific articles of the bill, we will all observe that many of them, which are undoubtedly positive and forward-looking, will vote on many sides of the opposition. I therefore think it is absolutely clear that apart from the strategic deadlock, which is specifically the Civic Opposition, and I will say a few things at the end of this, there is a next day for the workers and workers in this country. I will start by saying this: is it a little more than a record, as the head of the Labour Inspectorate recently said in a newspaper, 24 million from interventions in labour disputes among workers? Is it a bit? Are these tens of thousands of days unpaid work returned with these interventions? I am not going to go into the many legal and opportunities and all these things, which I think have been made clear that they are some procedures that exist anyway. But let's see the steps. Let's take a look at them. Is it a little bit of an obligation for the employer, at last, to communicate electronically with the staff employed? Do we really not know what party was going on at this level? Is that a little bit? Is it a bit that we are strengthening companies that comply with labour legislation? Is that an incentive or an anti-incentive? Who's an anti-institutor for? Because you're telling us that the bill is repressive. Let me get this straight. Fortunately there are enterprises in this country that comply with labour legislation. Is it not, then, an incentive for businesses to comply with labour legislation in order to have access to public money? Or do you want the fair to continue and the specific companies that systematically violate labour legislation continue to have these accesses and consummaries which are now using them? Is this a little incentive for companies that really want to be consistent with labour legislation? Of course, for those who are not consistent with labour legislation, yes, they will be excluded from public money. This is a clear position and it's the next day. Is it a little bit that we regulate - and we will take all the measures to make this flexible and effective - the electronic declaration on overtime work beforehand? There have been too many objections here. I think it is quite clear from the Ministry's side and it has been said too many times that we will get to the point - and we will come to the point - with a sms and the smallest business to be able to state overtime and be a flexible and efficient system. In any case, we are here if there is any difficulty in improving it further. Is that a little bit too little? Is this famous payment order a little bit more accessible, much more direct to the worker? Because all the rest of it existed either way or the oppositions and one another. I don't know the law well, but I think it's clear that they existed. We know that from our social experience. Is it a little less that the cost of the trial for workers is reduced? We are aware of the difficulties the judiciary has in responding quickly. But we are doing a legislative intervention here. "The air," they say. All right, let's not do anything, let's leave it like that. Let's not make a systematic effort so that these cases run much faster. Don't do it, let it go. But leaving it has consequences. Trying to implement it will work. And is this a little bit, which, on the initiative of the JRC, we have voted on, and are we giving it even more guaranteeing now, for the unilaterally harmful change? We don't know, don't we all know from our social experience what party was going on in this? Is this a punishment for businesses, or is it a reinforcement - I repeat - for businesses, which want to operate in rules, at last in that country? I'll go down. Expansion of rights, such as extension from the protection of maternity dismissal and women in the adoption process or engaging in parental leave procedure, is not an extension of rights? The introduction of special leave for new illnesses, such as for children with severe mental discomfort, is not an extension of rights to parents? Is it not in the positive direction that these rights are guaranteed? That is why I say again that when we get to this point it will be really difficult to explain those who vote on the contrary, because you do not vote on these positive provisions. I believe - I honestly believe that many of these positive provisions will be voted on. And I'm going to social security issues. I shall refer only to two issues, because I think that the Minister responsible will also answer them. Look, ladies and gentlemen, saying half the truth is one thing which does not help democratic dialogue. The previous speaker in relation to the report by the Institute for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises said only a part of the truth. I meant to say both. And the fact that business is having difficulty in contributing, but also the other element, ladies and gentlemen. It is written by “KATHMERINI”. Its title - having both photography and Mr Petropoulos - is: 'In a vain position despite the smaller contributions'. So all this propaganda, which said that contributions have been expelled to unbelievably heights and there is no reduction in them, is falsified here. So 75.7% of businesses say - as I read from 'Kathemerini' and I will submit the relevant information - that it pays smaller or the same contributions as those it paid in 2016. In fact, at the level of micro-enterprises, without staff and a low turnover, this is increasing, even with 79.2%. So there's one side, there's the other side. It is right for democratic dialogue to tell all sides. I am therefore making this information. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Mantas, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I'm going on and I'm talking about from now on. You say and repeat that supplementary pensions are cut by this bill. I hear some numbers like 40%. Before I heard the main pensions were cut by 30%. We have said a thousand times that the "standard" is at 18%. Nothing! 30%, 40%, 50%. Everyone says what numbers he wants. But that is not the case, and we cannot seriously inform the citizens. Let's say one, say the other, though. It's a hard bet for public social security. Fortunately - and I remind you of this - only 2%, as I read recently in Kathimerini, are resorting to private insurance. People's confidence in public social security is high and will become even higher. This is evidenced by the first samples from the EFKA itself, which, despite the provision for -400 million, if I remember correctly, Mr Petropoule, a surplus of +350 million euros. Is this a little bit on a project that everyone was singing from morning to night about his burial? They said it would fail, it's buried, it's the other one, it's the other. The fact that a clear road is being set up on this is a little bit? It's not a bit. But we are in a very difficult situation. Yes, we are. What is this bill doing in relation to subsidiary? It restores the remuneration of contributions and pensions. That is what this provision does. In other words, it takes account of the whole amount of employee contributions. And that brings results to specific sectors. In other words, it improves the rewardability of categories such as municipal and Community officials, ELTA workers, bankers, seamen, chemicals, etc. Is everything okay? No, of course not. We are well aware of the difficulties facing us and all that. But to say specific things. If the previous law was left, which reminds me that 2014 with a horizontal cut, based on the zero deficit clause, reduced supplementary pensions by 5.2%, do you know where we would be today for pensions from 2014 onwards? At 50% reductions. We with L.4378/2016 protected 90% of beneficiaries of supplementary pensions, which totalled EUR 1300. In the insurance system, therefore, we have a difficult picture. We remain in great difficulty, especially as unemployment remains high, despite the very great work we have done, but there are also positive signs. In any event, that provision is in the interests of pensioners and not on the contrary. Improves, doesn't remove. In addition, you say that supplementary pensions are not given. We received a hundred and thirty thousand and twenty-two outstandings in supplementary pensions on 3-12-2014. How many are today in July? A hundred and twenty-three thousand seventy-eight applications for subsidiary, less than the one we received. In the intervening period, however, we gave fifty - eight thousand supplementary pensions. Because it didn't stay the same as when we received. There have also been new applications. New applications, after 1-1-2015, are sixty thousand. Are we saying we made a triumph in this regard? Oh, no. We said, however, that we went ahead and that it is not true that supplementary pensions are not provided. How do we do it? Finally, Minister, I would like to make a comment on a specific article that I read and read again and I think it has some issues. It is Article 45, if I may, which states that 'any substantial change made to the contract of employment by the employer's decision taken in breach of the obligations laid down in Article 4 shall be invalid, retaining the rights of Article 7 of Law No 2112/1920'. What is not specified is a substantial change. Not specified. Moreover, in one workplace we may have two - three employees who have a different perception of what is the essential change, for example in working time or in other matters. I therefore think that this article needs to be seen again because it is not clear. Finally, Mr President - and I thank you for the time - I have not been able to say anything about the general climate, but I would also like to close, due to the particular sensitivity in this area and my professional involvement, with Article 25. With Article 25 we do a very serious thing for people suffering from mental illness. What are we doing? We are giving them the possibility of social reintegration, not cutting off the allowance they receive if they succeed in joining and are able to work for a six-month, one-year, etc. This is extremely important for the tens, hundreds of thousands of our fellow people in this country who have serious mental illnesses. I think it is a very positive article and it shows that within our overall plan - I imagine it will also be voted in favour of all sides - showing in a concrete way how we mean social sensitivity is very effective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u138	Mr Balommenakis, kindly, gives his place to Mr. Haritsi, who must go on behalf of the government to the Constitution to welcome Mr. McCron. So, Mr. Haritsis, you have the floor for five to six minutes, and then Mr. Balommenakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, unlike neoliberal orthodoxy that wants the growth of the economy to be based on flexible and cheap employment, growth is going through the upgrading of labour. The Greek economy will only recover if it is based on the high educated and trained human resources available to the country, which, incidentally, is also a product of the work done at the public school and at the public university, which have been so obsolete in recent years. Only if we invest in stable and quality jobs and create decent and human conditions for workers can we achieve socially just, but also economically sustainable growth. And I say this because the employment policies followed in previous years, not only did they not ultimately lead to the development of the Greek economy, but they also caused a former in a time of peace and injured the Greek economy without precedent. They also led to the departure of hundreds of thousands of young scientists and researchers abroad, depriving the Greek economy of its most important comparative advantage. Finally, they created a tragic situation in the labour market at the expense of workers, where the violation of labour rights, unpaid work and the infringement of labour law have become endemic. The reality we inherited is that we are determined to change it and change it day after day. The specific law of the Ministry of Labour is a very important link, a key link in this chain of changes in relation to the shielding of labour rights. As far as we are concerned, the Ministry of Economy, at the very first time we have planned and implemented an integrated development plan which at its core has precisely the use of the country's human resources, the creation of stable and quality jobs. In all the ESDP programmes, but also those financed by national funds, we have introduced the so-called labour clause. In other words, a prerequisite for strengthening an enterprise is to maintain at least the existing jobs. In addition, we are strengthening the businesses that will create new and stable jobs, covering for a considerable time the wage and insurance costs of these new jobs. While, finally, we have developed targeted programmes to strengthen self-employed graduates in higher education, so that they cease working in jobs that have nothing to do with their objects, but also to strengthen young researchers and link their work to Greek businesses. I now come to this provision in the draft law of the Ministry of Labour, the provision of Article 41 on the exclusion of public contracts and financing, due to breaches of labour law. So, with the provision in this bill, we are taking an extra step. We are introducing, as a prerequisite for the strengthening of a company from national and Community resources, strict compliance with labour legislation. As we have stressed many times in the past, our aim is to strengthen that business activity, which respects the rights of workers. It is also clear that the financing of companies and bodies which violate labour legislation also creates an unfair advantage to those who comply with the legislation. Our intention, therefore, is not only to punish those who violate the law, but, with this provision, to create the incentive to prevent such phenomena that have afflicted the Greek economy in the past period and to cultivate culture and respect for labour rights. There will no longer be any excuses, everyone will know that the necessary condition to ensure a State aid operation of all kinds is to implement labour legislation and respect workers' rights. The proposed provision defines the concept of a serious occupational misconduct which will henceforth be the result of a rejection of the proposal for inclusion in programmes or of subjecting to any aid scheme. An undertaking shall be deemed to have committed a serious occupational misconduct when three acts of fines have been adopted by the Labour Inspectorate for infringements of labour law in force as being of high or very serious concern or two undeclared employment fines have been adopted by the Labour Inspectorate. A sanctions mechanism is also provided for at the level of European and national funding from the NSRF, from the Rural Development Programme, from the Development Act, in two stages: before the operation is integrated into a programme or even after the project is carried out. The whole process will be checked electronically and automatedly through the interconnection of relevant programme information systems, i.e. the ESDP, the Rural Development Programme and the Regional State Aid System and the Integrated Information System of the Labour Inspection Body. In order to avoid any doubts as to the effectiveness of the system - and before a speaker, I think, of course, Mr Panayiotopoulos - there is also transitional in the provision until this interconnection of the systems has been completed. Ladies and gentlemen, the law of the Ministry of Labour as a whole and the specific provision I have just presented to you send a clear message in every direction. The logic of easy and quick profit to the detriment of workers, even against the legitimate entrepreneurs themselves, cannot have a place in the Greek economy and believe me there are many of them and from the business that supports such regulations, so that this unfair competition ceases to exist. The rights and decent working and living conditions for workers are not optional. It cannot be understood as a luxury that we can sacrifice on the altar of profit, it is a necessary treaty for economic growth and social prosperity.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u140	I call in Stepma Mr. Balomennakis and immediately after Mrs. Keramea. It will be followed by Mrs Fotio and I hope that the Minister will be ready for the two small issues to make her position and we will continue with the list. Here, Mr Balomannakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u141	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as in many areas of social and political life, it is important in terms of work that a government is treating them in this respect. The Government has declared to all tons that it is dealing with the issues of work from the point of view of workers, the protection of workers' rights, by introducing mature regulations which result in the application of the laws. This is particularly important because laws and regulations, as we know, exist and exist, are not generally lacking. What is often lacking is their implementation and, more or less, I would say that there is a lack of a mechanism to enforce the laws. The government and the Ministry of Labour have long focused on the subject of controls, with spectacular results, as we have heard. It can be said that the proposed provisions are the result of experience with gaps and awareness of the consequences of breaching the laws on the part of the employer at both individual and public level, since this deprives the State and the insurance system of the necessary revenue. A lot has been said, ladies and gentlemen, about those businesses that have been closed down by the crisis, about the dramas of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who have been forced to cease their activities. They've rightly been said. However, the systemic press has not mourned accordingly, with the exception of the left-wing forms, for the drama of hundreds and thousands of workers, those which we have already called them 'incarnated', who have been forced to work for months unpaid to businesses which have even planned to grapple with 'a rule'. The humiliation, the mental and economic burden of these workers, who have been standing for hours at the offices of the employer, either to get crumbs against hired or worse, to simply get a partial payment promise, for some seem to be trivial. The governments have so far whispered indifferently in the face of the phenomenon, for example, that a contractor who has exorbitant amounts of workers should not pay them, and at the same time he has nothing to do with it, that he continues to take jobs from the public, for example, by direct and very badly causing public opinion and, of course, the people who are suffering. The side effects of employers' arbitrariness and immunity, therefore, seek to deal with this draft law. In the order of regulations that have already been analysed in terms of the feasibility and effectiveness that is expected to have proved, as we have said, that the Government is dealing with these issues from the point of view of the weak party, the worker, and that is not ideality, but is an essential obligation for every modern democratic state, because violations of labour rights are one of the worst forms of crimes and have a serious impact on social cohesion and on the functioning of society. It is convinced of many of us that infringements in the area of labour legislation only by strengthening and furthering the effectiveness of control mechanisms can be stopped. If there is no mechanism for enforcing legislation, or if, as has been the case many times today, the case is dragged into the courts, where there is a full field of stress, postponements, etc., we still have to deal with wishing and hypocrisy. Therefore, the draft law which burdens the strengthening of the powers of the APRC, i.e. the Labour Inspectors' Body, which equips them with additional powers and, indeed, with those of the investigating official under Article 33 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, is very important. The access of officials to books, data and have full authority to distinguish the identity of the persons present is also guaranteed. It is also important that an undertaking that violates labour law and safety and hygiene rules is forced to close down. Equally important, if not more important than a sign of the determination that the government has to impose, rather than create another law among the citizens who do not have the right to do so, is that the interruption will not be lifted unless the infringements and infringements relating to the safety and health of workers are restored. I think that the regulation on the crossing of the legal labour line is excellent. I am surprised to hear objections. And if I have time, I will say a few objections to these objections. I think that the advance notice of the overtime system is literally the egg of Columbus. That's just how it is. So you won't be able to invoke the emergency case, since sending a sms lasts only a few seconds. So it is enough time that overtime begins to coincide with what you sent and things are all right and all legal. A colleague was invited, for example, to write books, entries made in manuscripts. I would say that 'ERGAN' is a step forward. And this recording system in relation to the past, it was progress. But look at this: The distance between registration and control - everyone understands it - there is room for windows, for vulgarities and for twists that we all understand who pays them. If it had been implemented in time, many fraudulent statements would have been avoided. The same is best with the announcement of voluntary departure. This requires the worker's agreement. And it is obvious that it will be voluntary if it agrees - only then will the system - and the worker receive it. I see time and time and I would like to begin by thanking the Minister of Labour, because - and I am glad to say this - the issue of the lack of access to public money by poor employers has been raised, if you remember, at an open meeting at the Labour Centre in Chania. And I am pleased to go down now and tell them that this request - which we really had many such phenomena in our region - was satisfied. I would like to say two things, Mr President, in addition to a manuscript, about a number of objections made by colleagues. As far as Mr Athanasios is concerned, I think we should all know that until now the only possibility of issuing a payment order has been to have a written confession from the employer. One realizes how big this difference is. As far as the burden of the work of the courts is concerned, we must once again say that the leadership of justice should also ensure that judges' productivity is increased. This is understood by everyone. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. For Mr Consola, we said earlier about segregation. For Mr Georgiadis - and I am ending with this - I wanted to say this: it is not accurate what he says, that what the government is going to introduce for access to personal property has existed so far. The only possibility of breaking the corporate shield - as is said in the legal language - was to prove that it was done with fraud. So this is very difficult. And we all know, for example, the case of a large newspaper that has been closed lately, where workers have been struggling, with tangible signs, and have difficulty proving and breaking the corporate shield. So the pervert is no longer the only thing, but the possibility is universal and of course for the benefit of the workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u142	Mrs. Keramea has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, since April last year we have heard from the Minister that the arrangements in the bill will restore legitimacy in the labour market. Later, in June, she declared that the bill would be a headline for combating infringement in the labour market. And just a few days ago, at the end of August, before the bill was tabled, the Ministry's sources broke out that this is a legislation with a positive sign for society, that it responds to constant demands by the social majority, that it strengthens the protection of workers and extends employment rights. If nothing else, ladies and gentlemen, we have waited for three things in this draft law. Firstly, it should provide solutions to the serious problems facing the last two and a half years of employment and pensioners. Secondly, to alleviate certain disparities that the so-called SYRIZA - ANEL charitable government created. And thirdly, reversing the unreasonable rates of youth unemployment and suspending the subsequent upward trend of the 'brain drain'. Instead, ladies and gentlemen, we have seen provisions which have been sketchy, vague and therefore inappropriate, ineffective and in the government's wishing tactics, which in no way cure the wounds you have opened up. And because I've always spoken with evidence, I'd like to identify what the wounds are that have systematically brought about over the last two and a half years. They are wounds to Greek citizens and taxpayers, indiscriminately, to employees and pensioners, who are actually punished by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government either because they work or because they have worked in the past. Indicatively for employees: From 1-1-2018 the basis for the calculation of the contributions is changed, which will entail even higher charges for freelance professionals, engineers, doctors, lawyers in the above categories of insured persons. From 1-1-2019, which will cease the transitional period, there will be a percentage increase which will reach up to 61%. A retrospective figure of 11% is expected for supplementary pension contributions and one-off for hundreds of thousands of free professionals and employees. The dues to the insurance funds in two and a half years, ladies and gentlemen, increased by 113%. It was EUR 10.9 billion in 2014 and has reached EUR 23.3 billion. Will we hear an answer from the government? For the first time since 2015, flexible forms of employment, part-time employment, rotating employment, broke the 50% dam and exceeded full-time. Will we hear something about this, ladies and gentlemen? The trend towards declining unemployment has been considerably reduced due to political uncertainty, fiscal derailment, tax storm and increased contributions. As a result, two hundred thousand jobs were lost by the end of 2016. And the second reduction in duty, combined with the increase in direct and indirect taxation, leads to the loss of two wages for workers. Will we hear something about this, ladies and gentlemen? But the wounds are just as great for retired people. Indicatively, the outstanding basic pensions exceed 139,000 with debts of 1,4 billion euros. Overdue supplementary pensions exceed 127,000 with debts close to 650 million euros. A total of about three hundred thousand pensioners are waiting for their pensions with corresponding debts, along with the retrospectives, which reach 3 billion euros. Will we hear something about this, ladies and gentlemen? The gradual abolition of CSR for 370,000 low pensioners began. Reductions in 2016 amounted to 165m euros for 120,000 low pensioners and in 2017 for 270,000 low pensioners, 587m euros. The full abolition of the total amount of EUR 900 million for the CSR will take place by the end of 2019. Widow pensions for survivors under 52 were abolished and the pension paid to the survivor was cut. Will we hear something about this, ladies and gentlemen? Health contributions increased from 4% to 6% in total pensions, 6% in subsidiary, 6% in double pensions, without this increase being equivalent to health benefits. And the personal difference, ladies and gentlemen, in the pensions of old pensioners is abolished. The old pensioners after the losses suffered after the third, unnecessarily, a memorandum will suffer even greater cuts with the fourth memorandum, with the abolition of the personal dispute. From 1-1-2019 there are new reductions, equivalent to the loss of one to three pensions. In addition to that, the plan that is being voted on today by the Government brings you further blows, imposes new pension reductions, new increases in insurance contributions. In particular, the reduction of the subsidiary from 21.4% to 40% is confirmed, freezing 129 000 supplementary pensions because the necessary formula for the issue of pensions was not created. It increases from 4% to 4.5% the contribution to the Equity Fund. And there is a further reduction in pensions for military, police, port, university, ERC doctors by not calculating the personal difference in pension years. And because, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you will accuse us of putting forward the negative points, we are not afraid to highlight and vote in favour of provisions which we consider to be in the right direction, such as speeding up the trial for the workers, of course, hoping that it will not be an empty letter and will be applied. Through this slogan of provisions, which, among other things, find emblematic arrangements, which amend the Katorugalou law once again in the last year and a half, we do not find an integrated plan to deal with undeclared work. I would remind you that in 2012, according to official measurements by the APRC, the rate of undeclared work was 40%. In 2014 it was reduced to 12% thanks to the actions of the Samara government and Minister Brutsi. How'd we do that? With the innovative "ERGANI", which has supported the control mechanisms, and with a double, balanced intervention on the part of a strict fine of EUR 10 500, which has worked in favour of workers, and a reduction in contributions by six percentage points in favour of employers. Ladies and gentlemen - and I close with this - solutions exist, as there is also a consensus on resolving issues such as labour. We fear, however, that this piece of legislation will not solve, but on the contrary, you will also create other wounds, wounds to employees, wounds to pensioners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u144	The reason is the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mrs Fotio for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, our government's central choice is to shield the fundamental rights of disabled people in order to promote their equal treatment, but also to facilitate their everyday lives. Part IV of the current draft law is implemented by institutional and organisational, as you all know, the United Nations International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. This is a section on disability issues. And this is recognized by all the wheelchair movement. I won't expand. They have been analysed by the Minister of State, Mr. Vernardakis. But while these things happen with the legacy here, what happens these days in the midwife? He is dominated by terrorist headlines: "The disabled will be cut off!" I take these headlines as an agonizing invoicing to the lenders to ask for it. I urge you, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, not to adopt them, because we do not have such a Memorandum of Understanding in the Third Assessment. They won't cut off the disability benefits. On the contrary, through the transformation of the OGA into a single principle of awarding all social benefits, the disabled will see the procedures for their allowances accelerated and their waiting times in the CEPRs falling, without bureaucracy and files going endlessly from the municipalities in CEPR etc. With a simple and common electronic system for both the CEECs and the new OGA, we will implement requests vital to the disabled movement, such as, firstly, stopping the endless bureaucracy and the suffering of the disabled; secondly, reducing the waiting time in the CEECs; thirdly, reducing the time for awarding the final allowance; and fourthly, giving all the disability benefits on the same day every month. We'll legislate soon and you know everything we've said in here has been done. This great change in the daily life of hundreds of thousands of disabled people, you have not been able to do all these years. You could not or did not want to connect the state files electronically, while you wasted tens of millions of euros to create an electronic base in the state, which was not in contact with each other. This is over with this "inadequate" government of SYRIZA. You know it's over with the CRL. We've connected all the state's electronic databases. Ideally made this connection against 26,000 euros. HEDI designed what all the Greek people today know, the Social Income of Solidarity, which saves time, abolishes bureaucracy, the suffering of citizens, saves public money without the redundancies of Mr. Mitsotakis, abolishes customer relations and faces with respect for the dignity and rights of citizens. This is our plan, not because we are socially sensitive - that may be everyone - but because that is our political choice. You, of course, Members of the New Democracy, who care about the disabled in this country, - I believe - have not found a single word to say so far about Part IV, Articles 61-76. I am still waiting for the rapporteur of the New Democracy and former Minister for Labour, who had this portfolio in his ministry for two years. Not a word about these articles. Unprecedented, but fact. Of course, the rapporteur of the New Democracy did not refer to any article in this law concerning the world of work. Would he be interested in disability? Unprecedented, but fact! But at least I remind him of what the representatives of the disabled movement said in the Committee on Social Affairs did not hear them. They said that this chapter will internationally upgrade the country with regard to the right to approximation of disability rights and possibly be one of the best examples internationally. And further - because they have already submitted them - they have said: 'The contribution of these legislation will help improve the daily lives of disabled people and their families and will be of vital importance'. The same annoyance for part C, which concerns social workers. There are now some tens of thousands of trained social workers, to resolve the acute social issues in the social field, as a result of a crisis. With these arrangements we are bringing, they will provide essential services in multiple social protection programmes. The Association of Social Functions of Greece becomes a legal person governed by public law, i.e. an institutional interlocutor and judge of the social policy of all levels of state organization and judge, not a applause, such as the Bar Association, the TEI etc., all legal entities governed by public law. This is a chronic request you never satisfied while attending all Grade 1 Services to be disfellowshipped by social workers. You will therefore have the opportunity very soon to see an application of what we are voting on today, that is, the role of the TSE as a legal person governed by public law, the assumption and adoption, the great bill that we will bring next month in public consultation. We will reduce waiting times for thousands of people who want to adopt a child, and above all we will prevent children from being founded, scoring them mentally and psychologically for the whole of their lives, and with full transparency we will lay the foundations to eliminate the creepy phenomenon of child trafficking and child trafficking. I am watching and confirming with every placement of the MPs, the autumn communication line reproduced by variations in this Chamber, a balm of lies and falsified evidence. It is a real test for common sense and for what we learned in the Municipal Elementary about unemployment, where 21.7% is more than 25.4% and goes by saying that SYRIZA created "brain drain". They saw no news leaving in 2010, in 2011, in 2012, in 2013, in 2014. They all left in 2015! You will hear these days, then, how to deal with this large bleeding. Nor did you see the extreme poverty and you left six hundred and fifteen thousand of our fellow humans without any help, those who are taking the CRL today and have a little difference in their daily lives. You are therefore reaping and perpetuating the thirty-three-one majority, who have found what is happening and displaying this disguised arrogance towards the workers. Why? Have you taken off so much with the poll wings? SYRIZA, ladies and gentlemen, discredited the polls twice in 2012 and three times in 2015. Land! But I believe, unfortunately, that your autumn take-off is because you hear the third rating drums hit. You are once again investing in the possibility that the most extreme circles of lenders will display irrational demands to destroy the country. This is your investment. Investments of the predator, as the people say. Our investment is the reconstruction of the social state, which you have broken up and in which you do not believe. This is a great investment in social cohesion, an investment in development and social justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u146	Well, the following five colleagues - and I think they are all in the Chamber - are the following: Mrs. Jufi, Mrs. Karakosta, Mr. Meikopoulou, Mr. Madam Minister, are you ready for legislative improvements and amendments?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u147	Mr President, I, too, forgot in my position to mention a legislative improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u148	You can tell her now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u149	I accept Mr Kegeroglou's remarks and withdraw the legislature we made in the former Article 67(2), namely Article 65(2) with the new numbering, for deaf and hard citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u150	Good, it was recorded in the Minutes. Please, your partners must formulate this in writing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u151	The old wording comes back, Mr President. We're just pulling out the state-of-the-art.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u152	Okay. So the old wording remains.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u153	Mr President, I am tabling the relevant legislative improvement for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u154	Madam Minister, would you like to speak now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u155	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u156	Here you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u157	Thank you. We're tabling a series of legislative improvements. I want to explain some of them because they matter. The first relates to Article 35. It is the imposition of a temporary closure in shops for infringements of labour law. I also said during the debate that the purpose of these provisions is to deal with relapse. That is why we are clarifying in the article, in order to be clear, because it has a number, 'if three infringements are found', that these relate to three different checks, and not to two infringements, for example, which have not been declared, to be measured and to the immediate imposition of the temporary suspension of operation. That explains the article. It is also specified...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u158	What article do you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u159	That was Article 35 in the numbering you have, I think, because they have been renumbered.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u160	They will be tabled in writing, ladies and gentlemen, and they will be distributed. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u161	It is also specified that, where an undertaking has several shops, which is the measure of temporary closure, because it has not been clarified until this has been done. When we have a business, which has many shops in the country, if there are penalties, and once the infringement in one shop and the other in another is detected, the last store is to be punished. In relation to voluntary departure, I would remind you of the article. What has been the case so far is that it is declared in retrospectively, within eight days, only by the employer that the voluntary withdrawal is without the obligation to sign up by the worker. There have been many comments in both the stakeholders' hearing and in the opposition that the two-day deadline is too narrow. I think it was a good remark and we take it into consideration. So right now, it's growing the weekend in four days. Again it is closer than the eight days it is currently in force. At the same time, I would remind you that the Article provides for the obligation to sign the worker. The most important thing in the article - I wanted to make it clear - is that if this announcement is not made, there is not just the penalty, the administrative penalty, but a complaint of the contract is presumed. There's a discharge, which is something that didn't exist before. So I would like to clarify this with the opportunity given to me by law-making. The third legislation concerns public procurement and the exclusion of breaches of labour legislation from public procurement. He made some comments from the Independent Authority for Public Contracts and we take them into account. We are making the right corrections to ensure that there is public procurement law intervention, namely that it is not a separate article in our own law, but that public procurement law is intervened. We are now creating a new article on European programmes and grants and subsidies. That didn't exist before, so a special article had to be formed. It will now apply to all these cases of public money - let us say - precisely the same framework of penalties and infringements. It will apply if you have up to three infringements at a certain time or a specific penalty, so that the whole context is consolidated. Two interventions are made in the areas of information and consultation. In information and consultation we have established an obligation to record a report. Delete the obligation to sign the minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u162	What article is it? We're a little lost.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u163	It's Article 43. The obligation to sign the record is deleted, because there could indeed be abusive behaviour either on the one hand, on the other, or on the other, from the workers or from the employers. In other words, the consultation could have been carried out, that the debate should be written in practice and then that one of them should not sign it, because it does not want to give substance to what has happened. There could be abuse.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u164	So who's signing it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u165	It is a practical requirement which is respected by the person who draws up it. It ends there.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u166	So the article is no longer needed, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u167	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u168	Mr. Brutsi, the legislature will be distributed in writing. Look at them and everything you've got, you'll do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u169	In Rule 45, both scientific bodies and Members have commented on the provision. The provision says that the material change entails nullity. It is a fact that there is an undetermined concept of substantial change. Because self-determination comes in the employment contract, we have to bring in an article that is more well-defined. Therefore, we are taking this comment into account, we will withdraw the article and come back next year with a more specific provision.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u170	What article was that?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u171	Article 45.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u172	In relation to the payment order, there was the observation in the committees that there should be an inconvenience to the employer, given that at the moment, as is the article, one can issue a payment order just the next day. In other words, if the monthly payment should be made on the first day of the month, from the second of the month, one could issue a payment order. It has been said many times that there should be even a basic nuisance to the employer. We put a call 15 days before the application is submitted. Let me make it clear that in this article, which is of enormous importance, the presumption that work has been provided is established. That was the main problem faced by workers when they went to issue a payment order. He called on them, in other words, to prove that the work was provided and could not prove that the work had been provided. The article solves this problem by saying that there is a presumption that work has been provided. I think I'm finishing up the law school with them. You'll be distributed. I should also like to raise the question of the amendments quickly. The Ministerial Amendment on the Ministry's possibility of entrusting the implementation, execution and management of programmes relating to privileged policies in the OGA is accepted. The Ministerial Amendment to Article 101 of Law 4483/2017 is accepted. The Ministerial Amendment on "the concession of the former camp Pavlos Mela" is accepted. The Ministerial Amendment on the notion of an employer in the event of an accident at work being compensated for is withdrawn, but the second part on the basis of an electronic database of safety technicians and occupational doctors is accepted. In the legislative amendments I have to clarify that there are amendments which are in the right direction, but there is still a need for further discussion with the Ministry of Justice, because many of them concern the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u173	Don't explain yourself. Say who you're accepting.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u174	It is important, however, because it values that there is no political disagreement, but it needs further consultation there. So, for the show of civil lawsuits...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u175	Say the number better, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u176	Yes, sir. Amendments Nos 1231/83 and 1232/84 are not accepted. Amendment No 1234/86 cannot be accepted. Amendment No 1235/87 cannot be accepted. Amendment No 1236/88 cannot be accepted. Amendment No 1237/89 cannot be accepted. Amendment No 1238/90 cannot be accepted. Amendment No 1239/91 cannot be accepted. Amendment No 1240/92 cannot be accepted. Amendment No 1241/93 cannot be accepted. Amendment No 1243/95 is accepted. Amendment No 1244/96 is accepted. I therefore think that two ministerial amendments are accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u177	To conclude with the legislative improvements on the part of Mr. Petropoulos to have the whole puzzle in front of you. Here, Mr. Petersburg, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u178	Thank you, Mr President. Two legal improvements I want to do. The first relates to paragraph 2 of Article 2 of the bill as imported. The words ‘the total percentage of that reduction may not exceed 30%’ shall be replaced by ‘the total percentage of that reduction during the transitional period for the gradual increase of the retirement age limits, par. Article 9 of Article 1 of Law No.4336 may not exceed 30%'. This legislative improvement is being put forward in order to respond to those who say that we are introducing reductions in civil servants. It is clear that it concerns the transitional period. It is not a reduction, it is a protection. It is for the purpose of providing protection for up to 30% that there should also be a reduction in civil servants when they leave with pensions with lower age limits. And the second legislative improvement...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u179	In Article 3?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u180	What article, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u181	Article 2.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u182	If there's something on the way, we'll say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u183	And in the former Article 21, which after the renumbering has number 19, which concerns the contribution to the Equity Fund, the wording is changed. To keep the formalities from confusing, I'll testify. What we are doing with the legislative improvement is to define in particular the current provisions on pensions. There will be reservations for no more reservations on a case-by-case basis. That is the purpose of the legislative improvement, and I shall put it before you. For the amendments which I would like to say for a while, Mr President, it must be made clear that, as from 14 May 2019, the first case will arise, any problem arising from widow's pensions. Therefore, as I have explained, in this space we will find ways and solutions to the relevant issues. For farmers there is no impact - we have said it before - on the effect of pensions in the case of employment. Pensioners in IEC and CECs are pending the adoption of the employment Circular for retired persons. And that's where it's going to be solved. As far as the amendment, proposed by Mr Saridis, is concerned, it is already in the law we are introducing today and we will be voting on the increase in supplementary pensions when there is a higher contribution. Therefore, any double-paid contributions are a favourable case for the increase in pensions. That is why we are not accepting this amendment at the moment. After finding the positive consequences, we will see whether we will be coming on a next legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u184	You also testify, Minister, your own legislature.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u185	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u186	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u187	First of all, Mr Brutsi, your parliamentary representative has asked for the floor first. Second, we won't start like this. If the Minister says a word and we start talking, we won't even finish at seven o'clock. However, instead of wasting time with convergences, two minutes is Mr. Deedias who is always short.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u188	Mr President, thank you. I would like to say to the Minister that the tactics, which he follows in the end, are causing damage. Ladies and gentlemen, legal is science. We can't let anyone legislate from the clipboard, and I said it before. Let me explain now what I mean. What happened to the current activity of the government and the withdrawal? You are bringing an amendment to paragraph 2 of Article 34 of Law 1846/1951, Minister, which you have just withdrawn. What was the layout? The provision shall be made if, by judicial decision, the accident in the performance of the work or by reason of the employer's fraud, the employer is required and has a number of penalties. That's very right. The government is now trying to create something and sell and clarify the right thing. And what does it say? The dormant - says - covers either the outcome of the accident or failure to comply with the provisions. Ignorance is obvious. It is obvious that the non-compliance with the provisions creates, at least, fraud and the result. When you do not know the provisions, you accept, even if you do not seek, that the result will be created. So far, there is not a case that I know, nor is the government presenting here a court which disputes this. The government comes here and interprets it with this useless statement. It now takes back the useless statement and creates a defence claim to any employer in breach of the provisions, that the fraudster, that is, only concerns the result and not the breach of the provisions. This is what happens when you legislate in this way. This happens when one legislates to create impressions. And, of course, he gets it back now, because he understands that it has no meaning. However, the damage has been done, ladies and gentlemen. A diligent lawyer will get the minutes, and after a while you'll hear it. You will hear that there is no possible delusion because the House has not accepted it. That's what we get.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u189	Mr. Brutsis, what are you asking for in the first place?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u190	For the legislative improvements tabled by the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u191	Good. You have the floor for a minute. You should be aware that - I have not put time on you, I mention it to the rapporteurs-general - we will normally proceed with the procedure. So, when the prototypes are over, if the general rapporteurs want it, for three minutes they will be given the floor for a second. I tell you to keep this in mind.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u192	At first, we said that the rapporteurs would have a second one, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u193	They don't usually have one.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u194	How do they not?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u195	That's what I'm saying. Not on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Katsotis, but on the basis of practice. That is why I am saying it now, so that if one of the rapporteurs-general wants to make a comment, he can write it down, and he will be given the floor in his second word to say it, so that we do not cut the flow at the expense of colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u196	As Mr Brutsis took the floor, I will also take the floor later to get time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u197	Mr. Brutsi, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u198	Mr President, thank you very much. I would like to address this House and say that the Minister for Labour has fallen, deliberately or unintentionally, into a slip. Mr President, what the Minister for Labour has said is not legislative improvements. It's a change in the substance of the law. Minister, you have removed an entire article on which you have invested, and you have supplied with political food, the SYRIZA executives and MPs who have said about the famous consultation article that it will no longer be possible to dissuade oneself within his business. And today you are taking back two important articles from the bill, the one you had made in consultation, which was a policy flag throughout the previous period, and what our Parliamentary representative, Mr Denkias, mentioned just now, said about it. They are not legislative improvements, Mr President. I want you to fix it. It's a change in the substance of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u199	Mr Katsotis, in order not to complain, you have the floor for a minute too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u200	We shall, of course, refer to the amendments rejected by the Minister and to our second. However, we believe that the documentation he has produced on the grounds of rejection, that there is a need for further study by the Ministry of Justice, in particular the amendment, which clarifies the framework for the payment of recruits, also cancels what is contained in the draft law of the Minister. We have said that today it is being exploited that there is not what we call the 'damaging day', while there is for the gift and the prizes are not paid and there is no such process. So you, and today, while there has been a lot of discussion on this issue of strictness, do not accept it, as well as the extension of responsibility to the main shareholders and members of the board of directors, leaving out the anonymous companies, many of whom are currently unpaid for over five, six, seven, eight months of their own workers. So, who are you legislating for?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u201	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u202	Mrs Christophilopoulou, don't make any more speeches.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u203	I have a right to one minute's intervention, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u204	All right, you have the floor for a minute and we're closing the interventions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u205	All right, Mr. President. I don't want to hurt anyone, but in the case of widows, we're mocking around here. Because we have here tabled an integrated regulation, which solves the problem, and I have heard the Minister say that the problem will be in 2019 when there is now! And he's listening to us, and he's watching us, and he's waiting! Secondly, I would like to ask the Minister this because what has been said is based, Mr President. It's not just legal improvements: What is it that came to her now as new knowledge or new light and suddenly withdraws? Because there are other provisions on which we have expressed positively, but we say that we do not know whether we will vote, we may say 'they' because they have imperfections. What is the case possibly, which suddenly made you understand the problems and withdraw it? When we in the Democratic Independence told you to 'consult, not only electronically and call the Committee' - you probably called it the Committee, but you still do not understand the law,'send the draft law to the Committee and have a real debate', all these positive things could be of use. And now I ask, why are they retiring at the last minute? Because what we have said is ignorant and incomplete, and incomplete, proves in practice, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u206	The role of the Bureau is not to take a stand on what is being heard. So on the political side of the remarks made by the three of you and Mr Brutsi in particular, if I were not in the Bureau, I would say that I agree. On the Rules of Procedure, however, I will remind you that any minister of any government - which is why the debate is taking place - has the right to make changes to a bill and to a plenary. Now, if the practice is beneficial or not, that is another matter and the responsibility lies with the Minister. However, the Rules of Procedure are not broken, because you have also addressed me for reasons of courtesy. So, I say the one part, the political one. If I wasn't here, I'd say I agree with you. In the procedural procedure, however, the Minister has the right to do so. Madam Minister, write down all your remarks and I will give you more time in your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u207	Yes, Mr President, but every time you do not give me the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u208	But now you're complaining about why? I asked you three times to take the floor and take him back. I let you talk nine minutes instead of five.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u209	But, Mr. President, before I took the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u210	But it's important to discuss.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u211	I say when I'm in the Chair, I know what I'm doing. Don't ask me about the other people and everything. And I'm telling you that now - to close - I'll give you two, three minutes to answer one, two questions. But you must note from now on. Please tell us when you will speak, because I am asked by the Parliamentary Representatives to be in the Chamber. And there, instead of eighteen minutes, you'll have extra time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u212	Mr President, if you will allow me to speak on a point of order, on the substance of the debate now it makes sense for the Minister to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u213	But didn't you hear what I said? I said that for reasons of equality I would give the floor for two, three minutes to the Minister and tell her from there on, not to do that, to answer her speech as a whole. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u214	In short, therefore, for these comments, I have to say: to the JRC, in relation to non-paid wages and the declaratory day, I had said so before. Non-paying is a crime and criminal, which is already a self-righteous offence. In other words, it is a self-evident procedure. In relation to the declaratory day, the Urban Code 655- if I'm not mistaken - says what the decency is. The declarant day, when a person has a payroll is next, when a person has a fortnight, is the next of the fortnight, when someone works a month, is the next end of the month. It is therefore a mistake, in our assessment, to put in place a regulation which will always set the declarant day by the next month, because this is a matter of some cases, not all cases. I think that the Urban Code of Conduct, that is, what is the declaratory day of wage payments, has solved it. In relation to the liability of shareholders and members of the board of directors of a public limited company, there is currently a basic principle of law, which is the legal autonomy of public limited companies. Company law does not provide for the liability of shareholders and members of the board of directors vis-à-vis third parties. I mean, there is no provision for payment of any third party claim against the public limited liability company. You in your proposal consider this to be an obligation. I had answered that last time you proposed this amendment. It is a very big crack in company law and I think it needs further processing, because this proposal of yours constitutes a lifting of the self-interest of the anonymous company. That is why I have clarified that many of them, even if they are moving in the right political direction, in a direction with which we would agree, need much more legal work, which is not just dependent on my own ministry's portfolio. In relation to the nullity and specific provision concerning information and consultation, first of all, I do not understand what the problem is, when we have been dialogued for so many days in the committees, and there is the opportunity for the Ministry to submit improvements, even at the moment in plenary. I think that the corrections I made on equal terms have shown that we have taken into account a number of comments, without overthrowing the core of the provisions, a number of comments which should be taken into account. With regard to this regulation, which provided for the right to self-determination in any material matter - that is to say the provision - a change in the contract of employment, there are two problems which have been raised to us in the committees. For the sake of consistency, I submit it all together. One problem is what is essential. And since we are talking about intervention in the employment contract, one of the workers can see a change for the same essential and the other is not. I think that a legal consequence should definitely be provided, which should be linked to the voidity of the issue of breaches of information and consultation procedures. It simply needs further processing, because there is this vague legal concept through the essentials which the judge is not allowed to judge, but is left to be judged by the parties. That is why we withdraw this provision. With regard to the Committee - and I said yesterday - in addition to the debate in committees where the Committee came and presented its views, we have asked for its opinion. When I make my speech, I shall submit the letter to the Minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, too. We shall now proceed, without interruption, with five speakers. It is, as I said, Mrs. Jufi, Mrs. Karakosta, Mr. Meikopoulou, Mr. Lasschakis and Mr. Kelles. Mrs. Jufi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u216	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin with two introductory remarks: I think that the majority of the speakers of the Greater Repression - and not only - are making this known copy - paste a false account of catastrophe. I would say that there is a selective deafening on her part both of the basic answers given by the ministers concerned and of the workers' requests made in this bill. There is also - you will allow me - to use the term - cynical - and I insist on 'cynical' - amnesia with regard to their actions, with systematic falsification of data relating to unemployment, wages, pensions, the absorption of the ESDP, with the aim of terrorizing the world, which manages a very difficult daily life, and, of course, with the hope that they will build in this way and with the help of their friendly media the process of returning them to the lost paradise of government power, which, among other things, I would say - was operating for some of them and as their individual aphrodisiac. My second point, which I insist - and the Minister responsible has made it - is the systematic non-reportation by the most recent, I believe, according to the other rapporteur, of the New Democracy, who has often taken the floor today, even though it has been provoked, in the provisions concerning disabled people. There's still some time to see what happens to the end. My opinion is that this is done deliberately in order not to record the positive news contained in these critical provisions. I think people of the wheelchair movement can judge their previous inertia, but also their current attitude. In the rest of my speech, I will refer exclusively to these provisions concerning disabled people, as we consider - not only us, but also the entire disability movement - that it is an important step that helps to further the integration of these people into the political and economic life of the country, implementing the United Nations Convention on the Rights of those people who, although ratified in 2012, have never received the necessary qualifications and have not actually been implemented. Thanks to the struggles of the disabled movement, their painful, long and persistent efforts, in fact, in recent years there has been a gradual shift to the social model for disability, as we are discussing today, and as is reflected in this convention, but also in this bill. Of course, the conditions of the suffocating economic policy in recent years have caused a serious harm to the state's functioning and the exercise of social policy. In particular, children with disabilities are faced with various forms of exclusion, they are very affected and this varies according to the type of disability, the place of residence and the social class to which they belong. They are in the first place victims - together with their families - of the economic and humanitarian crisis, which first and foremost calls into question their acquired rights. In this draft law, therefore, they include provisions aimed at addressing external obstacles and restrictions, but also to give society a sense of disability as a social issue, clearly defining the state's obligations to ensure and facilitate the general accessibility of individuals to the natural, structured, electronic and administrative environment, by putting elements of institutional structure at a higher level, where they can resort, but at the same time a reliable statistical record of this data, which is very useful for planning disability policies. As there is no time, I will not go more into the very critical provisions. I will, however, stand at a point which I consider critical, extending the granting of special leave and for parents of children - who have not yet existed, only for physical illness - with severe mental deprivation, Down syndrome, autism, serious motor disability, which is very important to the parents of these children. They need it very much. In fact, with leave law and older ages, when these parents continue to be curated by these children with the very serious problems, we know that especially for these diseases, such as mental disability and mental illness, parental custody is a life expectancy. As they grow, the problems for parents are growing and the burden is much greater and there are no structures for these adults to take on. I therefore consider this provision to be an important aid to the family of these people. Ladies and gentlemen, the policies on disability - and here I also address the Communist Party of Greece - and the efforts we are making are not wishful and, of course, do not concern a small population of people. We know that at European Union level one out of six citizens has some form of disability from mild to very serious, resulting in eighty million people facing serious problems. We also know that it is a category where poverty rates are 70% higher than average, along with reduced accessibility to employment and work. It is therefore a very important issue. And this government without saying that it solved the issues, made a series of very important efforts to facilitate the lives of these people, increasing the recruitment of people and parents with disabilities to the public by 15%, strengthening specific education, hiring much more teachers and opening much more school units by priority. The figures were published yesterday on the recruitment to the special education of about eight thousand assistants of teachers, specialists and assistants in the primary and secondary education structures of absolute priority. We reorganise the mental health structures with the active involvement of recipients. We founded the Rare Disease Monitoring Centers. And only yesterday was the ministerial decision, which concerns critical groups of people suffering from their children, and a great deal of effort is being made to ensure that the very expensive medications they need for their treatments and much more. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] As I said before, we obviously haven't solved all the problems. The Minister has also mentioned it. It's very important. It is necessary to revise the disability certification procedure in the CSDP and to update the disability assessment Regulation. However, with the current time-consuming problems, we have enabled this bill not to cut the disability pension or disability benefits until this decision has been taken. Also, the disability pension is not cut on people suffering from mental illnesses who find a job. Indeed, the struggle in this direction is difficult and continues for the disabled movement as well for the state. The actions to be implemented with regard to accessibility, participation, equality, employment, education, training, social protection and health are an obligation for the state, but for each of us and each of us to contribute separately with the proposals.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u217	Close, colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u218	I shall conclude, Mr President. So let us keep in mind that this particular part - and I expect it to be voted on by all my fellow Members - which also contains the positive elements of good legislation, after having been consulted widely and has the consent of all the disabled actors, will be the one that will trigger, with the active participation of all of us, but in particular of the disabled movement, to monitor and contribute to further disability policies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u219	Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u220	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u221	I'd like the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u222	For what?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u223	I wasn't here. If your Rules of Procedure allow you, I ask for your understanding. When the Minister made the intervention, I wasn't here, but I was told something was withdrawn and I see it is. Do I have the right to react now or do I not have the right?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u224	Although Mrs Christophilopoulou spoke on behalf of your party, as well as Mr. Dendias and Mr. Katsotis, here you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u225	Thank you very much. Mr President, you were not here yesterday, but they were the ministers. The Minister for Economy, Finance and other Affairs came to the Chamber and asked to inform us of his visit to Brussels and of the discussions he had responsiblely there. He assured the House that, as far as he is concerned, he had no discussion on the subject of this draft law on the part of others. Of course, he made further assurances on other matters. We have told him that we are positively accepting these assurances and we have no reason to question them, despite the fact that other assurances he has given in the past - I told him, in fact, about public debt and other issues - have proved to be air assurances and that this draft law has issues for which he does not take responsibility. Because it's another thing to let you know that it's yours, as Minister, a spirit child, a draft law. So I was suddenly informed - and that is why I asked for the floor - that a consultation and relevant minutes were withdrawn. If I'm wrong, I'll make it right now. This provision has been withdrawn - I see it here in the text - and indeed as a provision that is withdrawn by means of legislative improvements. Here are no natives to share mirrors. This is National Representation. When the Minister of Finance spoke and there was the parliamentary representative, you were here. You responded to all the issues you thought they were in the National Representation. On the question of whether you have open issues with the European Union or with Brussels, or I do not know who you have been silent and in a wicked way, thinking that you will make fun of us, you have made this change. It's a disgrace to you! We're not here to fool us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u226	Is everything a disgrace to Mr. Loverdos? Speak better!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u227	You're too upset to think you're here to fool us. You must make self-criticism, you must respect the National Representation as it respects you. You're not even a member of the National Representation, and you're playing us straight.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u228	Finish, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u229	Mr President, we are talking about a liar ego...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u230	Well, hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u231	...and he had the nerve yesterday to give us a hint of honesty.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u232	Mr. Loverdo, I'm gonna turn off the microphone. Finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u233	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u234	Mr. Mada, wait a minute. First of all, Mr Loverdos, I must inform you that, because the matter has been raised - not as acutely as you have said - of all those who have spoken, the Minister, when giving an answer, answered the matter as she thought it was. We're not going to ask her how she should answer. He answered, though. As far as the Minister is concerned, therefore, a satisfactory answer has been given to some other colleagues from the Opposition not satisfactory. Neither will the Minister hang them. Mr. Mada, why do you want the floor? Because you always make it easier.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u235	We are making it easier, Mr President, but there is also a limit, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u236	Here, you have a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u237	As a parliamentary representative, I would like to say one thing for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u238	Your Parliamentary Representative speaks. Calm down, let's hear!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u239	Mr President, I am quite frankly saying that I and my speech have commented on an article that has been withdrawn. There are too many things to say about various articles, etc., but the coming of Mr. Loverdos, whom they have suddenly stumbled and said that this was the case, that the other one, and addressing them with such designations,'shock and disgrace' and I do not know what, I think, is inappropriate and sometimes Mr. Loverdos does so.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u240	Do not criticise a colleague's procedure now. Every time he wants to get in the room, he doesn't come in.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u241	Okay, but there's a limit.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u242	We're closing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u243	Mr. President, excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u244	Mr. Loverdo, please! There are also colleagues who are waiting.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u245	He's talking about inappropriate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u246	All right, now!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u247	Mr President, just a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u248	Here, you have a minute and we're closing. That's not how it works.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u249	Parliamentary inappropriateness is what has been repeated in the last three or five times, to come a draft law here which contains arguments alpha, beta, gamble in favour of majority MPs, to have open consultation with the troika, institutions and others, to hide this and to come to mock this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u250	Mr. Loverdo...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u251	The majority Members must be ashamed. They're gonna tell us you're inappropriate!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u252	Mr. President, please...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u253	We're closed, Mr. Mada. Please leave it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u254	You know, we are mild, mild, but tolerance to certain things and to the way we operate Parliament has certain limits.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u255	Mr Manda, the censorship of what colleagues are talking about is not going to enter the Bureau. From there on, everyone is judged and characterized on the basis of his behaviour and his words.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u256	You have the ability to check them out, to observe them...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u257	I didn't talk about any censorship. I make political designations. Political designations and political controversy...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u258	We've heard worse in here and other aspects.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u259	I repeat that political designations and political controversy in this Chamber, I imagine, are all trying to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u260	You said that a moment ago. Don't say it again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u261	Mr President, when I speak, I will beg you very much, since you give me the floor, unless you don't give it to me, so I stop...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u262	You got him on your own now by the way. I didn't give it to you, did I? Well, finish up, 'cause I don't want you to stay with the impression that I'm making a distinction.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u263	Everyone wants to conclude with the Members, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u264	As far as I can see, you're done. Thank you, Mr. Mada. I appreciate that. Mrs Karakosta has the floor. The Greek language is rich. We cannot avoid the designations.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u265	Tell that to those who use them, Mr President. You have the possibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u266	We can say the hardest things without insulting people. Here, Mrs. Caracosta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u267	I would also like to welcome the colleagues and colleagues who are here today to discuss this bill. You know that many times we go to the Stepma to analyze a bill, but during this process, so many things are created that you're forced to refer to. We are often listening to the SYRIZA Members, who are well or badly able to have a origin and a course in our lives that what we do in this Chamber we do and we vote on it to stay in our seat. We have discussed the issue before, and I would like to begin with an excellent phrase that the Minister said before in another response, where she said: 'You know, you are thinking about the content of work that lawyers can get, while we are thinking about the worker's side'. This phrase is not a simple phrase. It is the way a person's thought has been structured, the course in his life, the struggles he has made and what starting points he has in order to form a legal framework. Because we Members do this, we ratify a legislative framework. So you must know that we were on the streets and were struggling for specific things. Don't give up on the psycho-composition we have at this time when we're parliamentarians, because we have it, we'll have it, and we'll admit it. We have been forced many times and have admitted it to vote for elements and articles which we have said are not in our ideology. We've said it, we've admitted it. So, then, we're sad when we do this, why? Because, beyond our comparability, we also have our political logic, that these benches are in order to serve in this difficult phase that our country is going through and the economic framework that others impose on us, because you have so far brought us here. So when we are in front of a bill - and do not give up on it - which is positive and in line with our ideology, of course we are happy. I don't understand why you told us we were celebrating. Of course we're happy. And this bill is one of them. And really, that's in our ideology. So I have to say this, and you're causing me for it: Because you and Adonis, and Georgiadis, said, "is in my ideology..."...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u268	Don't make no mention of the denominations.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u269	Luckily he's gone, it won't take time. He's not in our ideology, he says.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u270	Fortunately or sadly don't report.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u271	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u272	Seventeen times you called before the Tsipra liar, thief...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u273	Mr. Triantafylides, calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u274	What should I calm down? Now has the Bureau remembered personal differences?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u275	Calm down, Mr. Triantafylides!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u276	When you found the Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u277	Mr. Triantafylides, calm down. I'm ready to get up and call you in class. Calm down! Carry on, Mrs. Caracosta.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u278	So I have to say that some things are in your ideology and you have admitted it. Is it, then, in your ideology when Mr Brutsis increased the insurance contributions 100% and horizontally to all, large entrepreneurs and unemployed?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u279	Did I raise?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u280	Horizontal 100%.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u281	Did I rise or decrease?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u282	You've increased, Mr. Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u283	Contributions?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u284	Engineer's contributions doubled them if you want to know.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u285	What do you think? You don't know well.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u286	I'm an engineer, and I've paid for it...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u287	Will you make a speech, Mrs. Caracosta? Mr. Brutsi, don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u288	Mr. Brutsi, I've paid for it because I've been a congressman for the last two years. So, I know what I've paid for. You also abolished hospital treatment for people with severe illnesses and their children because they had debts in their insurance funds. You abolished collective agreements and dropped us in the jungle of individual contracts. Of course you've dissolved the insurance, taking part in the PSI and all the historical things that we all know about and people know better than me and you. So what you did was indeed in your ideology. And you've never been sad about what you've done either for the redundancies or what I've said before. While we, at least, are sad when we are deadlocked. So today we are coming to our psychiatrists today - a great deal has been said by our colleagues and extremely well by the previous speaker, Mrs Jufi - to correct things. We're correcting and covering gaps with bills. And what is our political logic? To correct what we can stage-by-step and go toward the exit of this surveillance. Of course, he doesn't fix all the bill, and there will be more bills in the series. Mrs Fotou mentioned many elements that go into the social context, which correct social policies. And we'll do it. Wait, don't fight. And people collect them and understand them. Therefore, a serious question of correcting is the fact that has already been mentioned in terms of political engineers and lawyers, which you said we are giving them crumbs. When they protested on the streets, you were in favour of them. Now that these people who are really not inscribed, have not started work, we come and say 'don't pay premiums', given that all uninsured people have health, I don't understand why you don't find it positive. As time does not take me - Mrs Jufi mentioned these too - they are two points in relation to the law. Unfortunately, I do not have time to talk about the rest. It's two points. The first point is that we want in education to train people about how they accept and deal with disability. The second point concerns the disability of people's psychological problems. We make them work, give them the right to work without losing their allowance. Why? Because that's what makes them good for their health. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We are therefore catching sensitive points, sensitive strings and we are, of course, facing extremely, of course - I do not usually take more time - the extension of maternity, which is not only left to the real mother, but also to the part of the mother, who is adopting or intending to adopt. Severely sensitive elements of another way of thinking and of people with another psychotic synthesis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u289	We shall proceed to the next three colleagues. Mr. Meikopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u290	Thank you very much, Mr President. However, if I may comment, Mr President, I think that there is a huge difference between political controversy and political criticism and empathy. I believe that the area of the National Representation is primarily a place for political controversy. Infringements belong to other spaces, not in this Chamber. Ladies and gentlemen, after the last few days and the debate that is taking place on this bill, I believe that a very concrete and crucial question arises, in my view. So the introduction of this draft law actually improves the daily lives of workers? To answer this question, I think it needs to make a very brief revert to the recent past. Three were the main laws since 2010, which have contributed to dismantling what we call the "working field". Let me remind you, therefore, that with Law 3899/2010 we have the introduction of specific operational contracts and the imposition of the rotation system, I would remind you that with Law 3846/2010 we have the availability of workers, and also that with Law 4046/2012 we have the "bone" of maturation and the elimination of the right to unilateral recourse to arbitration. With the newly introduced regulations concerning the labour sector, in my opinion, an inversely similar protection framework is created in relation to the 2010 and 2012 legislations. In particular, I am referring to the fact that the introduction of automatic penalties via electronic point system for businesses that are breaking down labour legislation is in a positive direction, the demonstration of the worker's identity during the audit of the APRC can put an end to the practices of invisible interventions, where the infringements were left in drawers and the worker was unprotected with the sense of fear and insecurity to dominate. As a result of the amendment tabled by the Communist Party of Greece, which provides that the non-payment of accruals constitutes a unilateral harmful change, the unemployed person, who has considered the unilateral loss of working time to be redundant, will be able to receive an unemployment benefit immediately. I also believe that the provisions which provide for more effective judicial protection for the worker, such as a quicker trial of labour disputes and an increase in the tools of the law to serve his interests, such as issuing a payment order, must be enforced against the employer. At this point I would also like to mention the provision for the exclusion of public business competitions, for reasons of breaches of labour law, which, in my opinion, can also be an incentive to the business world to observe the law. Access to public tenders and programme grants is therefore interlinked with respect for and respect for labour rights and labour law. All this will not, I believe, have any meaning in the field of applied policy if this government does not take a very concrete step in a very specific direction of strengthening the control mechanisms and, above all, of the Labour Inspectorate with human resources and other tools. I think it's a knot. It is good to approve funding through the NRP of EUR 760 000 for the orientation of financial tools in the direction of protecting work, but I think that the primary concern should be to strengthen the Labour Inspectorate with human resources. To come a little bit and stand by the provisions of the disability bill. I think it is an important innovation that, with the new regulations, the idea is that disability is not just a personal medical issue for every disabled person, but on the contrary it is now a question of purely social nature with its full range of social life. And I think it is also positive that there is a confrontation with the associations of the mobile disabled and, more generally, with the associations of vulnerable groups, as they are all recognised that these import arrangements are moving in a positive direction. I also had a meeting with the Association of Mobile Disabled Magnesia, Hippocambo, where there is the President Peter Bellos who has a very important action for the benefit of the members of the club. Of course, not all problems are solved with the provisions. Here we should point out that we could also take a legislative initiative next time on the involvement of vulnerable groups in medicines. The problem, Mrs Fotio, is that while there is provision for zero participation for people with increased disability rates, because most of the drugs these people are taking are standards rather than generic, there is a very large percentage of participation. I think it is an issue that we should take a serious look at in the next few years. The new provisions therefore introduce the definition of disability. Accessibility is guaranteed from the outset for everyone. The mandatory full registration to ELSTAT of the entire disability range is established and it is also important that media and communication service providers, by exploiting new technologies, are obliged to ensure that people with disabilities have access to them. In conclusion, I would not be able to comment on very important points relating to social security. I think that the abolition of the obligation of engineers and lawyers to pay insurance contributions only because of their registration at TEs and lawyers is in line with a proper request from professionals in these sectors and I think they are more equitable with their insurance obligations. Equally important is the granting of unemployment benefits to professionals in these sectors. I think that insurance interventions with a measurable social value are also a reduction in costs for the acquisition of fictitious years for farmers and very important is the continuation of disability pension payments in cases where the opinion of the CIPs has expired on the basis of which it has been awarded and pending the new opinion. This problem is finally resolved. It was a practical problem of too many people, as far as I know from my prefecture in Magnesia. We do not obviously claim that these provisions solve all the issues both in the work part and in the welfare section and in the social security section. One thing, however, is well known: the economic behaviour of the population is in direct connection with labour and economic security and their future expectations. That is why I believe that these import arrangements, with the extension of labour rights and institutional immunity, are a factor of economic development and social cohesion. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u291	You were consistent. Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u292	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as we are approaching the Thessaloniki International Exhibition, the government is trying to throw into the battle of the impressions all the communal tricks it has. We lived in Kavala yesterday, we live it today in Alexandroupolis - and not only - without any physical impact and consequences. The draft legislation that is being passed today is entitled to strengthen the protection of workers. It's probably a joke to the people concerned. It is full, Minister and Minister, with vague provisions of minor importance which do not solve the thorny issues, but are punishable for the businesses that, as you know, are living in this place. Once again proceed with new supplementary pension reductions from 21% to 40% until 31-12-2014. At the same time, 129,000 supplementary pensions costing 650m euros, as the Ministry of Labour has not issued the mathematical method of calculating the pension after 1 January 2015. You are once again targeting, of course, the members of the Armed Forces and the Security Bodies. With Article 3, further reduce pension for military, police, port, firefighters, university and doctors paid under the provisions of Law 4472/2017, as the personal difference they receive will no longer be calculated in their pension pay. The government's 'gifts' to pensioners continue, as under Article 26 you are making an increase in contributions to civil servants in favour of the share fund of 12.5%. The rate, of course, is formed from 4% to 4.5% on pensions, which leads to a corresponding reduction in wages. Based on what the government had announced by the Minister of Labour, we expected to see wage increases and innovative provisions for the operation. Of course you are siegeing them in every way, while now looking in dictionaries to find out what business plan means. That is why you are once again choosing to stand up to business, to impose strict penalties, and to put them in a shutdown to lose more jobs. Of course you've found the trick or, better, you think you've found it. You are raising the state, increasing the wage bill, announcing public recruitment, creating a party state of other times, which has completed its cycle, with individual contracts in certain professions, thus dismantling the private sector and destroying every healthy business effort. On the other hand, the EUR 360 generation that you created remains, as is the new generation of pensioners of EUR 185. Our best minds continue to leave abroad with Brain Drain reaching 33% in 2017 and you are still talking about reducing unemployment through tricks, such as wage cuts and part-time work. With the bill you're trying to hide the problems under the carpet. With regularity, you are trying to deceive workers and pensioners. You want to hide the new inappropriate pension reductions and the contribution increases that you have brought up to now. The wounds you have brought to the Greek economy with a memorandum of plus and two delayed time evaluations can only heal with a policy change, with an extrovert to the economy, with investments that will open up jobs and keep young scientists in our country. And surely we need reforming the insurance system, on new bases that will ensure recompense, incentives to stay in the system, transparency, justice and above all sustainability. In conclusion, I would like to refer to the amendment you are bringing about concerning the concession of the former camp Pavlos Mela to the Municipality of Pavlos Mela Thessaloniki speaking on behalf of the Department of National Defence of the New Democracy. The agreement reached by the New Democracy under article 13 of Law 4407/2014 on the camp was declared beneficial by all stakeholders. It was planned to create a model settlement within the camp that would include more than two hundred apartments with the necessary specifications for the families of soldiers who, as you know, have to move every three years. A proportion of the revenue from any commercial use to be deployed by the municipality in favour of the National Defence Fund was also provided for in order to fulfil the budget support mission of the Ministry of Defence and the Equity Army. But what are you doing with this amendment you are bringing, Minister? Basically you accept the individual, old and long-time licensed and in scattered parts of the city of eighty three apartments, which do not meet the minimum standards for military housing. Furthermore, no profit rate goes to the National Defence Fund from any commercial use that the municipality will develop, as provided for in the New Democracy Agreement as a government at that time. So basically using deformative lenses again, you consider the concession of the former camp to be a success in terms of damage to the officials of the Drought Army to be a success. That is why we too, because you ran around and you are not defending, in a spirit of law, the members of the GES, but also the citizens of the Municipality of Paul Mela, we vote'residents' as far as the amendment is concerned and the responsibility is all yours. We say that we will soon bring our own agreement to plenary, which will really serve all sides, as we have done in the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u293	We're closing the first 50 speakers I mentioned with Mr. Kelles. Then the parliamentary representative of the Association of Centres, Mr Anastasios Megalamoustakas, will take the floor and will follow five other colleagues with Mr Mitafidis first.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u294	The rapporteurs to whom you said you would give three minutes, when do you plan to talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u295	When the prototypes are over. Mr. Christos Kelles has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u296	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand very well that there are a number of SYRIZA Members who suffer 'allergies' by listening to the words 'business' and 'investment'. But there are no dangers, as anti-powered, in previous years, they have been transformed into commanders. They fought power along with the current Prime Minister, just as they fought every investment planned in the country, as they fought every bill that liberated the labour market and strengthened competition, as they fought every effort to stimulate entrepreneurship. And - oh of the miracle! - it has only been two and a half years and we see Mr Tsipras visiting workplaces and speaking with words until earlier banned. He visited the company "PAPASTRATO" to speak of the excellent relationship between entrepreneurship and employees. When exactly did he realize that? And since he realised it, how is it possible to turn on green light for today's bill strangling labour rights? He also visited "APIVITA", for which Mr Tsipras said - note - that this is a successful business because - he says - he does not have the profit as an end in itself. So what's the purpose of the operation? Did the bailout of the planet or the candidacy for an art prize? The prime Prime Minister, trying to balance himself on the tense cord of his ideas on the one hand and his opening to the centre area on the other hand, has no problem saying the most amazing things, forgetting that he is not speaking as a mere observer but as Prime Minister of Greece. And he did something even worse. It either forgot or was not informed that this company was finally able to be sold to a foreign group. Do you know why? Because of the cash problems created in the company due to the capital controls, i.e. after the famous negotiation of the "first-time left" which, of course, bears full responsibility. It is precisely in this context that today we are going to discuss the draft law of the Ministry of Labour, a bill that is moving right along the line of the Prime Minister, on the line I have just presented. And I explain: How does this bill close, ladies and gentlemen, the wounds opened by the catastrophic policy of the last two years? What answers pensioners who will receive nine more than twelve pensions by the year? What does the workers who see their minimum wage respond as a result of the reduction in duty and the simultaneous increase in direct and indirect taxes? What does he have to say to young people - let the thousands who have been hosted - who are rotating and paid in the same way? Does he have anything to say about undeclared work? What does he say about the complete release of team redundancies? Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister promised the generation of workers of EUR 750 and instead created the generation of EUR 360. He promised a thirteenth pension and created the generation of pensioners of 185 euros. We still had something unusual a while ago. You're accustomed to lying. You are used to us in 'I vote' and then I vote for it after one or two months. Today we still had an insult for Parliament, the withdrawal of flagship provisions from the bill. Does Mr. Chakalotos have to come back today from the House to see his ears? Because yesterday other people told us. Mr. Flamouraris is not here to explain to the House why you did not use the Juncker package, to tell the world how many jobs and salaries have been lost, because you and your Government are not able to design a business plan. Why are you increasing contributions? Who was responsible for the gradual abolition of the CSCE, which had already begun? Explain to us, gentlemen, SYRIZA and ANEL, because this draft law cuts supplementary pensions further. And since I mentioned the ANELs - is Mr. Kammenos not here, is Mr. Papachristopoulos really a liar, or was Andreas Papandreou not? So we can find out. Ladies and gentlemen, according to the latest figures, the number of outstanding main pensions is more than thirty-nine thousand, the remaining subsidiary is more than twenty-seven thousand, the ECU sixty-three-three thousand outstanding. The total is three hundred thousand beneficiaries who are waiting. And the worst is that no supplementary pension has been issued since 1-1-2015, as the mathematical formula is not yet provided for. The cosmopolitan waits and runs in the parliamentary offices. Widow pensions for survivors under the age of fifty were abolished. The dividends of the Equity Fund from 1-1-2016 were reduced by 35% and a sustainability clause was imposed. Health contributions increased from 4% to 6% in total of the main pensions, 6% in subsidiary, 6% in double pensions, and this increase was never reached the EEA. The notorious personal difference in the pensions of the old pensioners is abolished and new cuts come with the unjust and unjust third memorandum, which, together with the reduction of the tax you have already signed, is equivalent to the loss of one to three pensions. You have created three-speed pensioners: A generation of retired people before the Katorugalos ecstasy, a generation of retired people by 2020 and a generation of retired people after 2021. From 1-1-2019 you impose new exhaustive contributions on the already exhaustive contributions of the third memorandum, to free professionals, doctors, engineers, lawyers. And from 1-1-2018 you also changed the basis for calculating the contributions, which will bear even higher charges on the above categories of insured persons. By the way, Minister, why did it not start to offset the insurance contributions from free professionals and farmers based on the income of 2016? The overall financial adjustment of SYRIZA, ladies and gentlemen, on the insurance policy has reached 10 billion euros. They also wake up nightmares, because in two days' time we have the Thessaloniki International Exhibition. The dues to the insurance funds in 2014 increased by 110% from 11 to 23 billion euros. And just a few days ago you again broke the AKAE's "bulk" by taking 390 million euros to pay the pensions by the end of the year. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the numbers, that is the reality. You can't avoid either one or the other. All you can do, successfully, is dig up the last ghosts of the civil war, and save yourself. Unfortunately for you and luckily for the country, all you will achieve is after the left-wing parenthesis to put a perfect one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u297	The Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres, Mr Megalomustakas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u298	Mr President, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, today we will discuss a draft law on important pensions and employment issues. Our positions are clear and our overall position on pension is clear. We are asking for the abolition of the Katrugalos law because it brings about horizontal reductions that lead to further reductions for pensioners. We call for the abolition of double and triple pensions and their integration into one, which does not exceed EUR 1,500, as three hundred and three thousand double pensions exist in Greece at the moment. We hope that you will know and do something immediately about it. Also, as far as those with incomes above EUR 33 000 should be suspended, at least for the years we have been in this difficult crisis regime. At the same time, we call for the pensions of the former Members to be abolished. It's not a profession to be a politician. At political level now I would like to say this: we believe that the government is choosing this time to testify, at such short notice, at such short notice, as the whole of the discussions in the committees took place in only two days and without sufficient prior consultation, because you want to achieve something. At the end of this week, the Prime Minister will go to Thessaloniki for the opening of the International Exhibition there every year, and he will have to find something to fill the "basket" of promises and benefits, which he regrettably fails to fulfill and so easily, but he escalates to every rise in the PPC. This bill, unfortunately, is the'sheet of figurative' which the government wears in order not to show its inability to deal with the real problems of workers. This bill attempts to bring about a substantial improvement in the government's pro-collegiate and philosophical profile, which is trying to alleviate the impoverished workers with cheap tricks, at the same time as wages and pensions are rapidly reduced and we fear that further downwards will be reduced to levels below the decent living limit, for example pensions of EUR 180 and EUR 360. Another burden on all of this is flexible forms of work, such as part-time work, which tends to become a norm. For us, the new Memorandum of Understanding of EUR 360 - and less often - and part-time work and flexible forms of work are the result of the synergy between both the New Democracy and PASOK, as well as the SYRIZA - ANEL. The fact that from 1-1-2015 there is an unfinished payment of supplementary pensions for a hundred and twenty-nine thousand pensioners, without the application of the necessary mathematical formula, proves that there is no substance to the fight for who is responsible, as it is clear that you are all responsible for those who rule and rule to this day. After all, it is your government that led with its policies a large part of the people already in need, even signing the Memorandum in your turn, or rather the Memorandum, underscoring the fate of the country in the dilemma. Percentage proof of your achievements is the temporary retirement pension of EUR 280 for fifty years of insurance contributions, see the Legal Fund. God only knows when the final pension will come out and when it will be correctly calculated. On the substance of the bill, we believe that the draft law in no way has the potential to achieve the declared objective set by the government following its submission, that of combating undeclared and illegal labour, since it is essentially a stitching of provisions processed not in a proper way, but in a rough manner and the emblematic provisions proposed cannot deal with the diseases of a complex phenomenon, such as undeclared work. They cannot overthrow or even improve, in my view, the view of the Centro Association, the status of a working middle age that our fellow citizens are experiencing in the middle of an economic crisis. They cannot hide the inability of the government, on the one hand, to reduce unemployment and, on the other, to promote entrepreneurship, and with this bill we fear it will be even more affected. The Centro Association does not think how we will go through the third evaluation, because for the third evaluation, as for the previous ones, the solution is one. It's the attraction of investment, which will finally bring the much-needed growth that you all have as your flag. However, in order to do this, there is a need for the two major parties to be involved in a government of technocrats, which will have a large majority of at least two hundred and fifty seats, in order to be stable, because the investments are in stability. No one will come to invest in a country where the parliamentary majority is marginal and there is no political stability. Many times we saw in bills that you brought back reactions from your co-pilots. So this insecurity that arises from this does not think it will bring about political change and overthrow the existing situation. We have tabled a specific programme as the Union of Centres, the well-known programme that we have as the flag of nine points, and we believe that with this Greece will be able to emerge from the vicious circle of the economic crisis, but also from the crisis that is plagued by our society at all levels, such as, for example, the attitude with which we choose those who govern us. We also believe that this bill contains articles which will be very difficult to implement in reality, such as Article 38, which provides for an electronic declaration of overtime on the ERGAN system before they even become, or Article 16 which returns the repayment of the wrongly paid contributions to the insured of EKA in the light of the alalum that has arisen over the last two years with the repayments of the tax declarations. It is difficult to implement, too, the article on rapid labour disputes within sixty days, in a system already sealed, with thousands of outstanding cases of labour disputes. In this respect, we would like to hear a concrete proposal from the Government on how the system can be dismantled and how to speed up the resolution of the pending cases. We also consider the provision of Article 12 to be problematic, which confers excessive powers on the Minister for Social Security and strengthens the possibility of interfering with the ECA, which, moreover, has its own operating body. The President-in-Office of the Council should already have published the establishment plan, which would clearly define the distribution of competences. This delay, together with the delay in setting up the necessary service and disciplinary boards, is developing a series of customer relations and administrative arbitrariness, which is acting by way of derogation from the procedure in question. We will remind you that this omission could lead to the proclamation of the provision as unconstitutional. We also believe that, with this bill, the government, within its purple to highlight its philosophical profile, is attempting to resolve the question of the non-payment of responsibilities which may lead to an excessive burden on employers, as it has not come in a proper manner, such as the provision of a pledged payment order against the employer's personal property. In addition, co-government with this draft law, while claiming to strengthen labour rights and promises quasi-professional benefits under Article 53, at the same time as Article 17, is making explicit adjustments to the already institutionalised reduction of up to 21% of supplementary pensions due to the new method of calculation. It is a slaughter on the substance of supplementary pensions by a government which has not paid supplementary pensions from 1-1-2015, as I said before, to twenty-nine thousand beneficiaries, due to the failure to determine the amounts to be paid. In addition, Article 21 increases the share contribution of the Equity Fund from 4% to 4.5%, i.e. an additional reduction in the substance. We are deeply concerned, as we have said before, with the superpowers given to the Centre for the Collection of Insurance Contributions. Already since Article 107 of L.4387/2016, but also with further explicit reference to a bill under discussion due to the possibility of automated access to information from banks and financial institutions by linking them to the System of Registers and Bank Accounts, we fear the consequences that this will have on the professional secrecy of thousands of professionals and self-employed persons who already have so much to deal with on a daily basis. Of course, in order to change the tone and the style a little, this bill also includes a large number of amending provisions of the catastrophic Katorugalos law, of Law No.4386, a law with major problems in its architecture, which this bill comes to 'block' - because we think that it manages - by trying to remove imperfections with small modifications and corrections. I repeat that the Katorugalou law, as it has come, should be lifted immediately, as it is detrimental to all social classes. However, we believe that a large number of positive provisions are included in the draft legislation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u299	It's good you've found yourself well again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u300	We say what needs to be done, and what is good and bad. If you disagree, your right. We will talk about the positive provisions that are trying to correct the bad texts of previous legislation and of previous governments, which we are of course going to vote in favour, such as those concerning accidents at work, the strengthening of the rights of small and medium-sized enterprises and the strengthening of the rights of the defenders and the long-term suffering. Finally, we welcome the provisions to strengthen the institutional framework of the rights of people with disabilities pursuant to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. To conclude, we would propose a really important solution to the problem of free professionals and self-employed persons particularly affected by the current economic crisis and overtaxation and the constant increase in their insurance contributions, that is to say, the 'false' of their insurance contributions for freelance professionals and self-employed persons. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm going to need a little time, Mr. President. This solution would also be the sole promise of the government that would have been made, as the Prime Minister himself had spoken to the PMI last year about ‘freedom’ of the insurance contributions of the free professionals and self-employed who would have become due until 31/12-2016. We would like to extend this 'fresh' for all the previous years of the crisis, that is, since 2010. These debts could be paid to the retirement phase after deduction of contributions for medical care. This measure would relieve a significant number of our fellow citizens of about 300,000, allowing them to issue insurance information and reintroduce them into our insurance system by paying the corresponding contributions. We also want fair - I stress this - regulation not to include fraudulent cases of the non-existent bank accounts of free professionals and self-employed persons. To conclude, I would like to ask the Government two questions: How will the State have revenues when taxation has kneeled the private economy, and how will the insurance funds be filled, when the Katrugalos laws and unemployment are applied? It's something many citizens expect to hear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u301	I have heard several times - and you have heard it - that there are 330,000 Greeks who receive three pensions, of course having paid their contributions. I assume that you have this information after parliamentary scrutiny and application for documents and a reply from the Ministry responsible. I would like you to submit it to the Minutes of the House, because my information says other things, quite different from what you all call them. Secondly, I would like to remind you that under the current Constitution, no pension paid for cannot be retroactively abolished unless the contributions are returned. Some, then, may sound good in the ears of the people. However, it is good to be careful when we say so and not to deceive this Chamber. Mr. Mitafidis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u302	Ladies and gentlemen, I could call it politically - so as not to misunderstand - a schizophrenic attitude towards this bill, which I would call it a 'first aid' for the victims of the crisis in the workers. Previously, the spokesman of the Centroon Association, after, of course, praised the bill with the world, said that he has a lot of provisions that improve - if you like - the situation of workers. Look at something. You are particularly accused of the entrepreneurship case. We Thessalonians have lived in it for many years. For example, OSH is the epitome of this entrepreneurship. Even their profits put them at costs and created artificial deficits. You know, based on recent calculations, profitability was over 80%? For them, there was no crisis, no memos. That was the entrepreneurship that led the place to today's mess. You are accusing us of tightening the legislative framework on the labour market and thus putting obstacles to entrepreneurship. Those who have been through the trade union movement for too many years, such as the speeches, have heard a life that the labour market in Greece is "super-protected" in terms of workers' rights and the period of work jungle followed, of course. We've lived her. Personally, I've spent no hours, but the whole day in the courts supporting redundancies workers. And, of course, when your bailout came in and we went to apply a judicial decision to the Municipality of Thessaloniki that guaranteed five hundred fifty workers who worked for years and who you had not even hired them by transparent procedures - your children - were, as a member of the Economic Commission with my other colleagues, in fact, with the mandate of your government and then the existing secretary at the Decentralised Administration of Macedonia - Thrace, we were referred to the disciplinary authority with the question of the removal and charging of expenditure. These were your works and days. Look at this: Because in some of us old people you are very much irritating memory, I would like to tell you that since this step in 1976 the unfamiliar memory of Constantine Laskaris in his introduction to the bill on n. 330 - I've been fired with Law 330 as a trade unionist - he mentioned - you know, you laugh underneath and you do - that there is no exploitation of human beings anymore, and that is why we have to ban class struggle! Of course, the class struggle existed and will exist in a world of cryless inequalities and fortunately that exists as a safeguard for workers' rights, even though it is not always effective. It was then answered by the workers with a terrible 40-hour strike, which unfortunately also had a victim, a worker. You blame us for the fact that since 2015, young people have rapidly left the country. What can I tell you now? That we welcomed our brothers and sisters at the railway station of Thessaloniki at the four points of the horizon in the 1960s and one of the patriarchs of your exile, writer otherwise, and the history of the European spirit, Panagiotis Kanellopoulos, said that it was God's blessing that immigration was? Do you know why I'm telling you this? For Mr Hatzidakis said earlier: 'What the poor should not be forgotten in this place'. A late protector of the poor and weak Mr. Hatzidakis. So all the troubles have begun in 2015. You've replaced it after Christ with the aftermath of SYRIZA. I have told you that in a sense we are flattered in the sense that we are a reference point. Look at something: Because you want to take advantage of the McCron visit. Obviously, the French working class and trade unions are doing well and rise to these measures the extremity that takes over the rights of French workers. We do not, as you know, belong to the same policy or to the same ideological concept. This policy of austerity without an end date has led Europe to a recession. I want to close two things, ladies and gentlemen, because all things have their own history. Let me remind you that, when the Katorugalou, the poor man, was passed, we had brought more than fifty Members of the SYRIZA an amendment to the so-called 'alternative responsibility of shareholders'. What didn't happen then? Not only did the Quartet rise, but even the Equatorial Capital Union, as I have heard. Do you know what that meant? I remember it very much for Thessaloniki. That the employees of the "Messenger" and many others, without any kind of protection, have remained unpaid, while the shareholders are still having fun with their country houses, with their villas, without anyone harming them. As regards the camp of "Pavlos Mela", the Municipality of Paul Mela has done well in our opinion. We did not say that the "Pavlou Mela" camp must become a place to build houses for officers. There is a possibility that this issue can be resolved and that it will remain intact. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] One word and I shall end, Mr President. I owe this, if you like, to our personal claims, not as an individual, but as a trade union movement. The JRC brought a proposal to rid the trade unions of the ENPI. I want you to listen to me a little bit. This amendment has been rejected, and it is an overriding demand from the trade union movement. Where trade unions do not have any resources, for example, because they do not rent spaces, they are trying to survive with the infamous subscriptions of their members - I know that from the teachers of secondary education - when there is no collection of the trade union contribution from their payroll. We have been saying for years that they must get rid of the carpet of HNPH, and I think our government must do that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u303	Thank you. Mr Anastassios Pratsolis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u304	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my speech I should like to refer to two issues which have arisen during the current procedure. One is the position of some colleagues who really cause public feeling, with personal references and designations that do not really honor political dialogue. I will not censor their speeches, but I have the right to judge and characterise them as a vulgar confrontation that should be avoided here, at least in this area of democracy. Something else: It sounds very often that SYRIZA MPs do what they do for the chair and it is really challenging to say this to some of us, who have been a life in production, and when the people decide something else, we will go back to production, while others, not just those of the political families and I mention it, 60% of the New Democracy MPs, are such genes and not just that, but they also consider their hereditary right to exist in this Chamber, only them, no one else. I think that should be mentioned. I intended to start my speech differently, but I wanted to raise these two issues, which have arisen through this process, because I consider them to be topical. I would stress that this new parliamentary term begins, I think, with the best omens and this bill which we are discussing today, because, beyond the memorials and the comitology, the left-wing government is trying in every way, where it can once again heal several of the wounds caused by the implementation of the memorandums in Greece. Rights that some years ago were considered to be self-evident, your government's memorial policies were negotiated. We are therefore, ladies and gentlemen, working rights, the fight against black, undeclared and unpaid work. That's exactly what's in our notice of difference. Honestly, it goes too far to hear here from representatives of the parties criticism of cutbacks and lack of investment interest, when, on your day 2010-2014, we had the largest disinvestment, of about 67%, and horizontal reductions in wages and pensions, of the order of 45%. The world of work is still falling apart. There was a working jungle. The rights of workers have disappeared by abolishing collective agreements and other rights, and for the first time since 2000, the term 'employees' has been heard by the Sri Lankan Government. And so, indeed, the carpet has been set up since then for the prevalence of all these methodological and anti-virtual laws that followed. We must remember that, because some people today come and tell us, you know, about work, etc. For the first time in the distant 2000 term, the term 'employers' has been heard! Of course, ladies and gentlemen, everything has a limit. And most importantly, you are reaching the last point of political abstention, I would say, when you leave the SYRIZA government - ANEL two and a half years for all the sufferings of the country. When is the last time, gentlemen, even with a certain degree of honesty, which you are proud of, will you accept the undeniable? What is undeniable? That with your own policies, which you have implemented throughout the post-government period you have commanded alternately, you have thrown the country on the rocks and on the brink of bankruptcy, but also at the parties of corruption, opacity in all areas. Because there is a lot to be said about entrepreneurship, I will say something that belongs not only to my special home country, Evia, but also to many areas that have health sources. I say that because we are talking about entrepreneurship, and we say that we are helping entrepreneurs in their work. There was this dreadful for many years: The hydrotherapy centers use hot water coming out of the earth. So this was classified as waste and each of these plants, the small units of the hotel, had to spend over EUR 100-150 000 to become a processing plant. SYRIZA - ANEL in the first year of governance solved this issue. Can water be considered as waste, which is thermal and is used to treat people? Is that how you helped entrepreneurship? Unless there was another business behind, the supply of the processing plants. We're definitely not in this charge. All these are issues that many wish to forget, but the crime that has been committed to the detriment of our people over the past few years will not be forgotten. The draft law under discussion is another example of the policy, which the SYRIZA - ANEL Government will try to legislate in the next few months, with its sovereign aim of making people's lives as best as possible, given the economic and social conditions prevailing. Provisions that really help, such as strengthening workers' rights, improving critical aspects of the daily life of workers, facilitating the participation of disabled persons in the country's social, economic and political life. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The possibility of recognizing the natural age is being given to farmers. Finally, I would like to stand - because I do not have much time - on the issue of the disabled and say: the Government is going on with administrative and organisational arrangements, promoting the full integration of the SME into society by facilitating their own lives and their families. Now disability issues are seen as human rights issues rather than social solidarity and social welfare issues. Ladies and gentlemen, the strategic objective of this government is to achieve growth, at the core of which is to create healthy employment relations and to create quality jobs. In relation to unemployment today, two hours ago, ELSTAT announced a new decline in unemployment for June at the rate of 21.2%. I mean, five and a half units below what we received and then followed. Something that may not like some because they see with some strange mathematics suddenly increasing unemployment, because we have strange mathematics "SCAI" with the backward graph. I think that all of this should give too many thought to it. So behind every regulation of this bill we find the daily lives of the workers. There are tens of thousands of workers who worked overtime and have never been paid, who have never sold a badge, who have been fired and have not received compensation. We must all fight together - it is really a national issue - to improve the daily lives of these people, because today, in 2017, the self-evident ones are still being questioned in our country. That is the responsibility of all of us, and that is where we must move. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u305	Thank you, too. Mr Dimitrios Stamatis from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u306	Thank you, Mr President. Let us update today's debate with two facts. The first is the denial of Mr Tsakalotou's reassurance yesterday that his ears were not drawn. The withdrawal today of three articles, which he has signed, assures us otherwise. But because it is missing, I will not expand any further. I don't know if his ears were raised or not, but his nose was definitely raised. The second relates to Mr. McCron's visit. We welcome him, like any foreign leader, but I would like to remind you that the ban on demonstrations, gatherings and marching in Athens is based on a law of law of law of law and that you had made that invoked when Mrs Merkel had come, when we were a government. Why am I saying that? This logic, to consistently serve what you so far found and spit out, governs all your politics throughout the range. Of course a foreign leader must be protected. But remember what you were saying when Mrs. Merkel was here. What did your Chief say? "The government's disgrace in the face of popular indignation excludes the possibility for citizens to protest." I wonder: Are you embarrassed or not? And on this occasion - although I do not think any of these ministers can give me an answer - I was impressed by something. One of the persons invited for consultation with Mr. McCron's respective business team is the EEAS. Mr. Papadopoulos, the water. Does the government intend to consult on the sale of drinking water in Paris or is something else going on? We'll see it along the way, and we'll see your position. I now come to the bill, making an introductory remark to Mr Manda, whom I appreciate. Mr Manda, you said that there must be a democratic dialogue, a debate, a consultation. I agree. But when did you find out? Not you personally, when did your party find out? When he called us "German gypsies", when today's Prime Minister, as Chief of Police, threatened foreign investors and ministers of our own government to shut them down in prison? This Prime Minister who today turns from shop to shop and from business to business to show that he is in favour of argument. Mr. Madda, have you measured how many provisions, how many laws, and how many articles we have voted on when we considered them right? You tell me an article in a bill two and a half years when you voted for it. Tell me one! So do you have such a moral right to blame today's Opposition when it is your attitude? We have also said in this bill that the articles, which we consider to be correct, will be voted on. You didn't do anything if you entered some articles that are right. That's your job! That is the obligation of every government. I don't understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u307	The whole bill and much more.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u308	Mr. Dendias said more.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u309	Some articles we've said. You didn't get it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u310	I get it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u311	You didn't understand it, and now you don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u312	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u313	You had 15 minutes of time and you spoke to nine. Didn't you find more time to defend the bill and specific articles? No matter what, however, I say that this is our attitude throughout your government's term of office. Where do you find the moral stature to ask us every little while and a little while with praise to vote your own bills, which we've seen where they've led the country? You also said something else, to which I agree. A democratic dialogue must be based on the truth. But in every debate in the House there are figures. People listen and go, they're confused, they don't know who's right and who's wrong. But let us stick to two undeniable elements. Element one: Because of your own governance, the country was damaged at least 100 billion.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u314	Is that a clue?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u315	We don't.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u316	Says who?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u317	The president of the ESM has said so. He has not said it in his homeland, he has said it here, at the Economicist conference, in the presence of the Finance Minister, where Mr Tsipras spoke. Did a colleague hear the Finance Minister or the Prime Minister disobey and say to him 'What are you talking about, sir'?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u318	A hundred times.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u319	Oh, no! Why? Because that's the reality. The damage you've done is 100 billion. There's another undeniable element. Does anyone doubt that you have loaded the Greek people with 15 billion meters these two and a half years? These measures, which have led to a deterioration of the situation of the weakest Greeks. Aren't you the ones who have reduced wages and pensions so far? Aren't you the ones who have voted to lose the pensioners after 2019 two pensions, lose the employees two wages due to the reduction in tax? And you're talking about social policy? When you increase VAT on people's consumption, who pays them? The rich or the poor? Where do they have greater weight and greater consequences? Of course the poor. When you have changed the relationship between direct and indirect taxes in favour of indirect taxes, who pays the bride? What does your socialist education say? You come here today to challenge us when you have created them by telling us to praise a bill, which is clearly that it has come to fulfil a mission, Mr Tsipras's speech at the IGC. For it moves in two proverbs: one proverb says "to burn you, my dear, to lure you oil". The second proverb says "do the rat genital". While you have caused this situation to the Greek people and especially to the weakest, you are now coming and putting oil into the huge wounds that you have opened, mainly at the expense of the weaker financially. In fact, you're doing this in an explosive way. You're making the rat genocide so that the Prime Minister can invoke it in the ID. But the Prime Minister doesn't have to do that. All Greeks know that the Prime Minister, as every year, will be consistent. He'll do what he does every year. But he will say in the report and he will do nothing the next day. We have recorded more than ten major findings of this inconsistencies since the last visit to the ICU and not to go to 2014 with Thessaloniki's program, the parallel program of 2015, I go to 2016. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And because it is the responsibility of this Ministry, I directly ask two questions: what has happened to the Prime Minister's promise - even express and strict commitment - that he will create an irresponsible account for the needs of businesses? What made the commitment to freeze insurance contributions by December 2016?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u320	Good, rhetoric are the questions, Mr. Stamatis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u321	I am saying this in order to link it to the bill and close it, Mr President. Be careful, you are in the wrong direction, which I at least heard from Mr Haritsis a moment ago. Do you know what Mr. Harris said? First he says we need to create jobs in our minds, baptize them, set the remuneration, and then the investment and entrepreneurship will come. You've put the cart in front of the horse. That is why the consequences are now dramatic at the expense of workers. And before you decide to answer that, really, how can jobs be created? The first problem with the worker is not to safeguard his working conditions, but to find a job. When you in the second quarter have a reduction in investment outside your target of 17.1%, where will the jobs come from, so that the unemployed person, who must be the first to care for each government?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u322	Mr. Stamatis, perfection and dash.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u323	So let the celebrations go, leave the preparations for the Thessaloniki International Exhibition and if you were mindful, because I heard a colleague on TV saying: "We had no experience, we were infinite, we made mistakes."
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u324	Here's the rest of Mr. Tsiaras will talk about it. Come on, Mr. Stopate, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u325	Reduce the mistakes and mainly listen to the Civic Opposition and forget what you were saying until yesterday, before asking us what Mr Mandas asked a moment ago. You don't deserve it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u326	Mr. Chiara has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u327	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the absence of a fellow Member at the moment, I am at the Step of the House after the last sitting before the short-term interruption for the summer. I wished, then, that the government would change its tactics and approach to the parliamentary procedure, on the one hand, and, on the other, that of Parliament. Unfortunately, reality itself contradicts my own expectation and creates conditions again or perhaps, on the contrary, prospects on the part of the coup d'état for the repetition of their own evils. And it is not because, in fact, we have the seventh piece of legislation on insurance law, which was well celebrated about sixteen months ago, by the SYRIZA - ANEL government. It is mainly because it is trying once again with a bill of a more communication character to give any arguments to the Prime Minister, who tomorrow from the step of the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki will try to make a reality which, by no means, is encountered with the reality of Greek citizens. What, in the end, is going on with this notorious bill, which the National Representation is invited to discuss and of course to vote on today? In fact, ladies and gentlemen, I am referring to you because there has been very great criticism of whether and whether some Members are talking about the articles in the bill - you should bear in mind that, in the end, we also have an increase in contributions and pension cuts, and that is something you cannot deny. This is the first time, perhaps, that we will see widow’s pensions in amounts of EUR 190 and EUR 200. And all of this, because, unfortunately, gaps, amateurs, indifference, inability did not really leave what you had defined as a fundamental stone in your own policy on insurance reform, the EFCA, to function in fact. Who, of course, are we talking about? For an EVKA, who, with this bill, as the rapporteur of the Civilian Representation, finally comes to determine the absolute ability of the Minister, outside of every organisational programme, to appoint or place any member he wants in any position of this administrative structure. Will it really be answered when the three hundred thousand main and supplementary pensions are to be paid, which are still pending? The fact is that in this debate, unfortunately, there are procedures which, not only do not respond on the part of the Minister, but I think they are unrealisticly exposing to all of you honourable Members of the Officerate, who must at some point be confronted with yourself. What's going on, really? Is there no reduction with this supplementary pension bill, mentioned until 31/12/2014 from 21% to 40%? Don't you see that, ladies and gentlemen? Aren't there a hundred and twenty thousand supplementary pensions frozen, because for almost two years there is no mathematical type? Isn't the contribution increased from 4% to 4.5% for the Equity Fund? And all of this, which we do not pay, is we not finally counting on the total amount of time, which appear or do not appear on the government's side? I say all this because there are issues which we have to admit at some point and can, of course, the Prime Minister himself say that he has passed through a period of illusion and illusion, but it is incomprehensible for the whole House, for all the Members, especially the coup d'état, that these illusions are still the fog in which they decide and in which they make their own choices. Whether you like it or not, I will tell you that, for the first time, flexible forms of work are more than stable forms of work. I know you're gonna say that started before. Yes, but did you promise the Greek citizens? One has to be confronted here - I repeat for the second time - and with oneself. When he claims, promises or, if necessary, announces things intermittently contrary to what he eventually implements, there is obviously a moral responsibility, there is also a question of dignity. If this dignity so easily can be overcome for anyone, it is obviously an issue, which always exists in the crisis of the Greek citizens. I remember attributes - I have been serving the Greek Parliament for many years - the incomprehensible struggle that the then Chief of Staff Response and current Prime Minister of the EUR 586 have given us today, speaking in such a way about the generation of EUR 586. Of course, we were talking about parttime work, as is my argument now. What are you talking about, really, 360? What is the opinion of the Members of the Congress of the 360 euros? Will you tell me that 'we are crying, but are we voting', as I heard two - three colleagues from this Step earlier or, as some ministers from time to time said, they cannot sign up because the paper from tears is wet? Is this the case of dignity to Greek citizens? Ladies and gentlemen, we really would like your legislative initiative to be such, giving us the opportunity and the opportunity to support it and to vote in favour of it, believing that it works for the benefit of Greek citizens and Greek society. But in a reality, which has indeed been dramatically differentiated from the past, I will remind you that you have also voted for collective redundancies. Is that right? Don't forget that. When it had been a huge struggle by the previous government to demand creditors not to accept it for absolutely no reason, this SYRIZA - ANEL government voted for collective redundancies with three months and only a warning. I say this simply so that we remember them and do not forget them. And because you are in a completely wrong way, the degression of unemployment, which you call for, has three features: one is the much lower wages, the other is the dominance of flexible forms of work, and the third is the well-known phenomenon of Brain Drain, which at least by recordings you got 11% and you reached 34% -35%. Since this whole case will obviously be an area of controversy between the Government and the Officerial Reconciliation, I would like to tell you that if the Minister cannot first see any of the efforts you are making, but of course the whole of us who are the only way ahead of us, which we must follow, it is certain that none of the efforts you are making will end up somewhere. The only route, ladies and gentlemen, is the path of growth, the path of investment, the path of entrepreneurship. We are pleased that the President-in-Office takes the lead in adopting this road in his own logic. Of course, the actions or - if you like - the choices or legislative initiatives do not prove absolutely anything in this direction. However, the sooner it can be understood, what is the only necessity for our country to come out of this great economic crisis, from this sadness and suffering, which all Greek citizens have been living for the last seven years, the better. It is good to see it, to understand it and to face it as soon as possible, if we really want this effort to have the effect, which I want to believe in the consciousness we all wish in this Chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u328	Mr. Chogas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u329	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, a phrase cried out by the Latins is opportune today, especially in today's parliamentary procedure: 'The tempora o mores!'. Only the extreme political amoralism that has emerged out of opposition, without exception, could be considered the winner of the period of drafting the contested bill by the committees until it was introduced into Parliament today. Throughout the period the Opposition, each party for its own micro-party purposes, attempted to rebuild and sprinkle the bill, flew into the gutter of its opposition philosopher, the most philosophical, the most bold bill with provisions that you had never imagined existed. These provisions, or the society itself, which is concerned with not having imagined them, have been devised by SYRIZA and the staff of the relevant ministers as the children of the need for the most troubled post-multiple era. Top semantic features led New Democracy to a monumental insanity when it realised that the momentum of the draft bill and their inclusion in our legal culture did not favour it and obligated its representatives in our Parliament to rough and coarse panic activities and to peculiar tensions. They were uncompromisingly assaulted by inviting actors, unusual for parliamentary morals, even for the New Democracy, and then one of the representatives in the plenary process obviously panicked by the social acceptance of the bill, used the most purchased in parliamentary times to affect the credibility of the SYRIZA government. Ladies and gentlemen, New Democracy, with its volunteer companions PASOK and Potami experienced a nightmareous reversal of the reality that was dismissed and followed by the closure of the second assessment with the upgrading of the economy by the known houses, the spring investment, temporary recourse to the markets at competitive rates, tourism to record a record, 9.5% increase in exports, increasing consumption and record in processing, continuously falling unemployment with a record of seventeen years in job growth, increasing industrial production, the application of the judicial support mechanism of four hundred thousand entrepreneurs and regulating their debts beyond their lending needs in instalments, returning micro-enterprises to normality, returning banks to profitability, reform of the National Health System, the introduction of primary care and the direct recruitment of three thousand people, reforming their debts in instalments, the return of small and medium-sized enterprises to a total of 200% reduction in the first quarter of 2017, with no more than a quarterly reduction in the total of the total government's of EUR 2. Thus, with the introduction and the degree of acceptance of the bill, he chose in any way to write off as a non-existent priority, adding that the use of his orders was considered to be highly likely at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition by the Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA, having the look of the Prime Minister in society and the workers, with a view to resolving chronic problems and demands of the working class, their social protection and integration, promotes a purely protective bill, in the fond expression of the Prime Minister, which seeks to change the structures and conditions of the provision of work, the elimination of pathogens and the elimination of continuing illegal employers' activities in the workplace with the victims of workers. The important arrangements in the draft law include institutional interventions to address the chronic problems of workers, insured persons, SMEs, as well as a number of social demands that enhance and extend the rights of workers, such as the fight against undeclared, declared and unpaid work, taking protective measures in favour of workers by strengthening the control mechanisms, in particular the Labour Inspectorate, by stepping up its operational capacity, penalising the employer who infringes the provisions of labour law, with temporary or definitive cessation of the operation of the undertaking. It obliges the employer to register electronically in the ERGAN system legal overtime instead of handwritten multiple records, as well as to declare electronically the voluntary departure of the worker while at the same time certifying his agreement by protecting him from false announcement of the employer on his/her voluntary departure. It provides that in the event of non-compliance with labour law, such undertakings are excluded from access to public money if they are deemed to have been subject to high or very serious infringements. For unpaid work, workers' s scourge, it provides for decisive measures to be taken to ensure the employer's compliance with the current legal framework, firstly, the issue of a payment order that was almost excluded from the procedure for due wages and thus a rapid claim for compensation and claims, with the exemption of the fee of legal notice up to EUR 20,000, reduced for the excess amount and a rapid redundancy within a period of sixty days for due wages and an invalid redundancies. If the non-payment is regarded as a harmful change in the terms of employment of the unemployed worker as having the right to receive unemployment benefit and if it is considered to be an invalid redundancy, it shall not be entitled to unemployment benefit until a positive judicial decision is adopted. Furthermore, protection against maternity dismissal in the cases of adoption and parental leave is further extended. Special leave is granted to parents with severe mental deprivation. Within the framework of social security arrangements, the obligation of engineers and lawyers to pay insurance contributions is abolished only because of the entry into their insurance funds only as long as such insurance lasts and is in existence, and the cost of purchasing the natural years for farmers is reduced. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Finally, a number of provisions are introduced for disabled workers and the protection of these rights with its consequences as far as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, the rejection of this bill will characterise you as a harsh neoliberal concept. And the obsolete and utopian political proposal as an inconsistent and fearful, contrary to history and reality today, makes you a party caught up in the past, which is stumbling up with a momentous and unclear step between modernization and darkness. I invite you to withdraw your reservations and vote for the bill. It gives a life of breath to the workers, the insured and the people with disability problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u330	Thank you, too. Let's see which speaker first won't override the time. Mrs Ahchioglu wants to present an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u331	Let me just say that the amendment is accepted under a general number of 1252 on the regulation of conditions for daily regional and local newspapers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u332	Mr. Theocratic has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u333	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will not avoid the temptation to answer Mr Stamatis first, which says: 'Why did Samaras bring Merkel, and now you are taking the European leaders, such as McCrone, without any problem?' The answer is very simple: you, Mr. Stamatis and colleagues of the New Democracy and PASOK went bankrupt, brought the troika and the comitology, and we had every right to protest as well as the Greek people. We are now bringing it back to normality and so are the European leaders and we are returning to normality. It cannot stand criticism of what Mr Stamatis said that we have charged the country with 100 billion. First of all, it is an insult to the Greek people. They mention billions as if they were tunnels. That's how they were accustomed and taught. Because we have recapitalised their own loans, their own debts, their own scandals and their own illegality, who have charged the country and impoverished the Greek people, they tell us that we have also charged the country! The last thing, to close with the answers to Mr Stamatis, is what he said that we have reduced wages and pensions. When? With what bills? We who have kept them in a dignified position after the twelve cuts made by them, with the increases, even symbolic, that we have made to the wages of civil servants? Of course, we are saying that we are giving increases in the party army. Pick, if we give public officials increases because we consider them to be a party army, or if we make reductions, to know what to answer. So I'm coming back to the bill. One - one of the areas of everyday life returns to normality, after the closure of the second assessment, although the Opposition probably did not want that. Thus, after health, education, the media, come with this draft legislation that restores working rights. The worst, ladies and gentlemen, that the New Democracy and the PASOK have achieved with their anti-government laws was the complete depreciation of labour and the worker as a factor in the production process. No one was counting on the worker, and that is because they had been depreciated, in fact they were abolishing their rights. She could not complain, she could not, in fact, use the courts, she could not make a political appeal, she could not receive an unemployment benefit if she did not accept the voluntary withdrawal. The worst part is that the worker, because of the anti-Fraud policy of the New Democracy and PASOK, had lost all confidence in the institutions, in society, in the market, in justice, because he could not defend his self-evident rights. They were coming to us by the lawyers, the workers were exposing us of the many illegalities that were taking place at their expense, for example others signed up to them and took back money from those who entered their accounts, working more hours than they signed and how many others, were disappointed, because they understood that there was a hostile climate at their expense, both at the administrative level - both OAS, OAED and other services - and in court, where the worker had a cost-effective and time-consuming procedure in which he would even be locked up, that is to say, not in the hands of the unemployed, and perhaps with a little chance of success. We had reached the point where employers were not counting labour costs when they were taking up jobs. I mean, they said so much it would be rent, so much fuel, etc. The workers had them last, and they must have them first. As capitalism has succeeded in having the property sacred, as Article 17 of the Constitution says, the same must be done as a counterweight to protecting and calculating labour rights. And that is done with this bill to a large extent, as I will say below. When you give the right to a payment order, the contract becomes legal sacred. The employer must be careful. Now the employers are signing up as if they didn't sign anything. It's an old paper. They did not, therefore, count on the workers. This is where the New Democracy and the PASOK have reached the rights of workers. They're down. They've threw their wages. You've reduced it! They have been able to work, after flexible work and after hiring the workers. You did this, colleagues of the Opposition. You've taken unemployment to heights. You have effectively abolished labour law. We forgot what we learned. You abolished it. You've made all this glamorous and disappointing landscape for the workers, and now we're starting to restore it. It is the first bill after seven years of crisis that has many provisions in favour of the working world. In any case, I refer to some provisions. It is important for the free traders, and let us not speak, ladies and gentlemen, about the market. For those who were chasing them like criminals, because they didn't owe tax, or they didn't pay their insurance contributions, and we did an extrajudicial mechanism, and a hundred and twenty instalments we do, and others must be done. But not New Democracy talking about entrepreneurship. When it speaks of entrepreneurship, it means entrepreneurship with seashore loans: profits in "losers" and damage to the Greek people and without any respect for the environment and labour rights. We need to miss that entrepreneurship! And the right businessmen and foreign investors know that the right business and investment landscape will be with us, with our Government and with respect for both workers and the environment. The right businessman wants to respect these factors of production and growth. Other colleagues have said so. As regards Articles 34 and 35, for the closure of the undertaking, where infringements are detected, or for an indefinite period of time, when there is a serious risk to the safety or health of workers, it is quite right. With regard to Article 38 and the entry in the "ERGANI" detailed work, overtime and overtime, it is very right. As far as the electronic announcement of voluntary withdrawal is concerned, it is very right. The exclusion from public procurement and financing, when the other breaches of labour law, is correct, is also correct. It was outrageous for the worker to see his illegal employer stalking his work rights and going to pick up contests and get paid. And with regard to the political procedure and the issue of a payment order, I disagree with the positions of both Mr Athanasios and those of the New Democracy's colleagues. Following the adoption of the law, the leadership of justice policy can also issue relevant circulars to which the law applies. The issue of a payment order, as I have said before, gives great strength to the worker's contract. And with the legislative improvement, the outlawed worker gives the 15 days before, where the demand is actually cleared. As the Minister said, it is also the pay order, but also the pay order on the basis of the payroll. That's the job. All this, Minister, we want it to be done in our region, in Kosani and in western Macedonia. And on the occasion of this law's adoption we want and must apply to the construction sites of PPC's contractors in the Kozani-Ptolemaida-Amyntini-Florina energy axis. There it was blossoming - and unfortunately, it still blossoms - undeclared and undeclared work. They run undeclared, uninsured and ultimately dangerous vehicles. We've received a situation like this. We are waiting, on the basis of this bill and your visit, which I know is due to be coming in the next few weeks or next month in our region, to be launched and to have greater cooperation with the Labour Inspectorate. We will also have the biggest development project in the country, the construction of the factory. And it might be right to introduce an annex - it is not your responsibility - in cooperation with the Ministry of Energy of the Labour Inspectorate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u334	All right, that's it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u335	I shall now close, Mr President, by telling colleagues in the opposition that they are like arsonists. They set fire in the woods, set fires in the country that went bankrupt, and then accuse the fire or us, that we didn't catch everything, they tell us "what did you do and leave something to you?" You burned, bankrupt the country, colleagues of counter-population. We and the fire have turned out and reafforestation will be completed and will not let the Greek people come back, because you will be filled with us arbitrarily, as you have done forty years now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u336	Mr. Triantafylides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u337	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this phrase has also been heard and the Marbles of the House have not fallen, it is truly characteristic: "You, SYRIZA - ANEL, have caused the Greek people enormous pain, you have made him suffer." However, the record is avenged: "What a bad thing at work was for the troika to do long ago, since the branch contract is no longer compulsory for everyone. This will complete the cannibalism of the labour market, extend the law of wage jungle - Mr Chiara - 'and finally implement Mr. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: You said: “SYRIZA 300 euros! The EUR 300 to 400 are the 5 euros of south-eastern Europe and Greece!'. Who says that? Letter Corkides - especially Syrian! - the President of the ERC to its members. When does he say that? On 19 August 2013. And Mr. Corkydis doesn't stop there. He says more in his letter: Locks and unemployment were mainly caused by the unrelenting wage cut - he says this in 2013, it seems that he was looking forward, that SYRIZA will come after two and a half years! - in conjunction with the overtaxation which led to the collapse of consumption. That's what Mr. Vassilis Corkidis says in a letter of 19 August 2013! And he says another thing: For Greek trade, wages are tantamount to a turnover, which is why our pursuit is a decent level and the timely payment of wages to every employee. It says something very important for the entrepreneurial forces and we now invite him to do so, as well as Mr Michalos and Mr Kavathas from GSE, so that they do not fall short of the reduction, as was then done by an act of legislation and we started from the EUR 860, we came to 751 euros, to 586 and 511 euros. I put the letter in the Minutes, so that we do not hear things and elements which have nothing to do with reality. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Alexandros Triantafyllidis, presents for the minutes the above letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And it says that a man from the area of entrepreneurship that in 2013 had no reason to oppose New Democracy. You just stand up to the homeland and the world of work. That's what you're doing. The draft law is part of an endless confrontation of politics and economy. Force association, who has the upper hand. Our government answers the question: Can policy restore the disturbed balance in labour relations, which in particular in the years of commemorative cannibalism in the name of flexibility - flexibility - in the labour market and in the name of reducing labour costs has led to this working jungle? Our government responds positively, creatively, subversively, lawfully and I do. I will explain to you both the 'legal' and the 'project' which are on the sidelines of this logic. First of all, there is the umbrella that says that the protection of work strengthens entrepreneurship. These are not theories. The business model of the company "PAPASTRATO", the entrepreneurship model of the company "SKLAVENITIS", which gives bonuses to workers who respect labour relations, who say "no, I will not open on Sunday because I respect my employees" is this model that we support and is solidarity with our own perception. We do not obviously support the model of entrepreneurship that says "the houses on offshore, the money on Switzerland and the damage to Article 99", the model of "MARINOPOULOS" that says "I make them out, I leave 12 thousand people on the road and come on, Tsipras, come on, SYRIZA, give a solution". In this draft law we overturn the relationship between an employer and an employer who says 'not to say, not to pay, not to secure my employee'. We are actually urging his world to do what they said at the time. I referred to this earlier. I said 'I think'. What should we start about the law? And I honestly wonder: A payment order is to be issued for wages due at the expense of the employer. Aren't you going to vote for it? Why? What are you going to tell the worker belonging to the ideological field of New Democracy? For what reason, although fired, he won't get his allowance. We basically support him, give him a legal tool, an elbow so that he does not feel lonely and solitary at the mercy of every employer who is dissatisfied. The cost of the trial is reduced. It is foreseen that the unemployed person who has considered the unilateral change in working conditions may receive an unemployment benefit immediately. The law says that. I now come to the 'I'm coming to work'. The A.R.D. you've broken it down, remember? Nassos Eliopoulos, Andreas Nefeloudis and Efi Ahtsoglou, who listened by mouths that should have closed and beared, should be reddened by the ones that emits their teeth’ herbs, are the ones who dared to fine 1.6m euros at Piraeus Bank for illegal overtime and black labor. Did it ever sound? For freshening your memory and our memory! A fine of 1,6m euros at Piraeus Bank, a fine to the National Bank following an appeal of 15 employees, a fine to a bank that kept employees beyond the hour 277,500 euros, a thousand six hundred thirty-three checks, two hundred-seven-five cases, a fine of 1,870, 965 euros, thirty-eight-month reports. Why? We sent the message to the market that the big stores -'magasy', you said - are no longer outlawed, out of control and out of fines. From there, we started from above to actually give the young man the opportunity of fairness and well-being, who wonders whether he always pays the "marble" and whether the big one stays in the unavoidable. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] I do not wish, because I do not have time to mention the model of work at European level, and what has been done with the 'flexibility' and the'mini jobs', which, in the end, the research of German universities itself actually highlights - and there was an excellent article in the 'NAYTTERIC' which recorded these forms of work - that the contribution of the 2003 reforms to the economic success of the country, Germany - when Peter Harts, its CEO 'VOLKSWAGEN', to make the 'part time', the'mini jobs' and the flexible labour market - is much smaller than that of the collective negotiations of the 1990s, that the paid worker is actually contributing to the development of work. And I want to close with an urge. Workers now have the possibility - and lawfully I do - to feel that there is a government, that there is a state mechanism that lies next to them. It is not enough to know that by calling '15512' they do not wish the unknown by boat. They are addressed to people, to the Labour Inspectorate, who will be next to them. And our call is: Do not bend your head to anyone who violates labour legislation. Do not let anyone insult your dignity and personal moral integrity. Now there's an elbow, there's a mechanism that wants and can stand next door...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u338	All right, put a perfect one now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u339	...in the world of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u340	Be well. I didn't want to interrupt the oestrus and give you two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u341	You always show tolerance to all the speakers, Mr President. And you're doing well.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u342	Mr Varvitsiotis has the floor to conclude with the speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u343	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, by closing this sitting, I think it is characteristic that the emblematic provisions of this bill were finally withdrawn shortly ago. What, in other words, innovative and dramatic could introduce this bill, after all, lies a letter of content. Because, as we said at the outset, it would run counter to the reactions that go beyond this Chamber, the government and the Minister were finally led to withdrawing and, indeed, without adequate justification for this withdrawal. Minister, do you know what a successful Minister of Labour characterizes? Because you're new to both the ministerial and public affairs of the country. They characterize him as two basic numbers: How many people have a stable job and what their average earnings are. You have succeeded today in not being in stable jobs, but in flexible forms of work. This is the first time in our country that this has happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u344	How much longer can we last!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u345	Mrs. Fotio, please. You have raised yourself so many times in your public speech that I would ask you to be more self - control. This is the first time that we have more workers in flexible forms of work. And if this success were not to be achieved in tourism, which is due both to internals and also to external reasons, we would see that the situation in the workplace would be even worse. The second number is the average payroll. Today you have managed to work at EUR 360, to create the generation of 360 euros, a generation without any prospects and a generation which, unfortunately, has no hope in its horizon. Because even if he manages to get rid of the 360 euro pay, he will eventually get into another charge that the state will be part of. Because, with the Katorugalou law, you have brought such a change to the free professions, so that we can have a record of deletion of free professionals in the year that passed. Delete record! They're shutting down booklets and there's no hope of going back to the labour market for the one who shuts down his books. He's either going to the black job or leaving. And I don't know how he'll finally survive. Unfortunately, Minister, you are in front of a time bomb ready to shut up and you want to convince us that you are making major reforms. Real reforms would be possible if you could create new jobs in the industries and in the areas where these jobs could have long duration, have this form of sustainability that we are talking about. And what are these? These are in the new business. Unfortunately, however, the rates of absorption of the ESRB are tragic. You have succeeded in swamping almost all of the twenty-four operational programs. In 2016 you booked it with 30% below the absorption target. And, of course, the actions undertaken by your own government have not been absorbed into a single euro. Such jobs would be in Skouria in Halkidiki, the investment you fight with nails and teeth, even though your Prime Minister has now put his shirt on entrepreneurship supposedly and discovers investments that have been made and have been planned in the past. In fact, it visits businesses and is impressed by how some invested in Greece, because he had been dynamic over the past period. Of course he is impressed when he goes to PASTRATO and sees that there has been an investment that we have tried to bring. He is impressed about the amount of investment that has been made and says: "Who, say, and put money in Greece?" When he goes and sees new businessmen, what's he gonna tell them? Will he tell them that today there are incentives to create new businesses in the country, that you have lifted bureaucratic obstacles, that you have exploited the Juncker package, which was advertised, built for Greece, exploited by all the other countries, and you have only been able to integrate few public projects? Nothing else! And it came out with an ignorance of your shadow Vice-President, Mr. Flaburris, to tell us that the "business plan" is'revenues plus expenses'. ‘Revenues plus expenses’. Hasn't he read a "business plan" in his life? He doesn't know what the business perspective is? And, of course, the top one, "Work in Attica, Greek". You've taken the contest ready, finished since the first day you've taken over the government two and a half years now - and you've been blocking it all the time. You haven't left a single day when you don't get in the way. It has signed the Ministry of Culture with the contracting company Memorandum, which is not being observed and a project that the country needs, is not being carried out. I'll tell you, Minister, about the new armies of the unemployed you're creating. The other day, I was in the Spatas with some truck owners. They asked me one thing: "What do you say? Will the Greek bass begin and work or close the books and sell the car?" That's what you've done. And these are not the big ones, they are not the people who say that we support, they are not the big businessmen. They're the pussies. And you've led them to dead ends. If you do not change the line, if you do not really do this shift in entrepreneurship, if you do not take advantage of the investment opportunities that exist in the country, unfortunately no matter how many interventions you make, to those of the auditors and to make the road, no matter what you create in labour control mechanisms, you will not really manage to create what you need, that is, more income for the workers, more opportunities for young people and above all for a generation that can hope for. Unfortunately, your idealism and your inability do not think it gives us hope that this will be created as long as you remain in power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u346	Thank you. Mr. Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u347	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u348	Excuse me, Mr. Loverdo. The Minister will precede.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u349	Not that way. You're a minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u350	And I'm a congressman. I haven't lost it yet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u351	You're Minister of the bill we're discussing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u352	If you want, remember that I'm still a MP.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u353	I guess you didn't forget you were Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u354	Mr President, Mr Varvitsiotis is right. One must stand back. But human tolerances also have limits. I do not have to say 'how much more' of what I have heard, which insult the common sense, the arithmetics of young children, etc. But still, I'd like to know what I've found myself in. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u355	The parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Alliance has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u356	Mr President, I will come to Stepma, but before I would like to ask for the floor on a point of order. May I?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u357	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u358	You told us that the debate 'in practice' would be closed by the Minister. Can you tell us what this practice is?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u359	Mr. Loverdo...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u360	Allow me, Mr President. I won't answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u361	Mr. Loverdo, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u362	Let us not do this today. The world won't be lost.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u363	It's completely counterproductive now. Take the floor. I gave you the floor. Come to Stepma and we're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u364	Wait a minute, Mr. President. I raise the subject of the Rules of Procedure. Let's go to the old Bee - we won't get hurt - let's do this today. However, it is not practical, because when you and we are still waiting - and we - for the main speech of the Minister responsible, then there is a circle of discussions. Today, for reasons other than a necessary time economy, we accept it. However, this is not practical, as you have said. That's the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u365	Good. Let's save the vine of the process and let's leave the old vine. Come to the Step for your speech, Mr. Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u366	Ladies and gentlemen, the discussion of this draft law on the part of the Ministry of Labour has information on topical and urgent subjects of concern. And he has timeliness because the government has linked it with the Prime Minister's visit to the Thessaloniki International Exhibition. And there, in IDU, on the part of the political forces that today exercise government power, we have seen stable over the past five years to play a game in which they make bins, encampment. I remember 2012. I remember in 2013, the first two years of SYRIZA Officerial Response. I remember last year, in 2016 - I am doing an overrun - which, as a government and the Prime Minister, was in Thessaloniki, really slandering the media issues, where the Prime Minister of the country, listen, suspected 1000% or one in a million - I do not remember what numbers he gave - to make a decision of the Council of State that would not want it. I remember being indifferent to a journalist who was having an unemployment problem. At this juncture, you brought here a draft law. And what Mrs Christophilopoulou said yesterday and I stressed that you did not go through the draft law from the Economic and Social Committee is the ultimate proof. 'We sent it', you say. Mrs. Christophilopoulou will tell you later. Yes, you sent it, but in times such as this, that legal pre-parliamentary procedures are not allowed. That's too bad. It is a pity because what has been done with the withdrawals of provisions which you have triumphed in the past few days, and this particular case, which is the subject of the draft law here without the draft legislative opinion of the Committee after the legitimate parliamentary procedure, reveal that you needed it for communication. And now let's say the thickest politics: we all remember - and you of the majority - Mr. Tsipras' announcements about labour and insurance issues in the 2014 IGC. And they are in the ears of all of us - unfortunately for you and the ears of the Greek people - the commitments of the then leader of the opposition for a minimum salary of EUR 751, for the reintroduction of the thirteenth pension, etc. And in September 2015, we heard the 'parallel programmes' that of course did not exist. It is not just the announcements that are not verified, ladies and gentlemen. It's also the look of the announcements. True insanity, a patched heartbeat, a face of a young, supposedly sincere, politician who is - supposedly - interested in the popular layers. And today, the Prime Minister returns to the place of this political crime again with the cynicism he has - massive cynicism - in order to say what he will say and which, more or less, we and we all know. And even, in an attempt to say something, you try not to exploit, but to take advantage of the French President's visit to the country. And your political non-existence makes you sicken in cloudy communications promises that from this visit something very good will come out of the suffering of the Greek people, while we know very well - and the experienced and less experienced politicians - that from a machine of gods don't exist. Emmanuel McCron can't save you. But even if he could offer something, Mr. Tsipras is not capable of getting it. He has failed as a country's international representation completely, provenly. And our global humiliation on visit Obama and fresh is also a given one. You have to understand that in the mindset of the sanctuary, you won't make any progress, nowhere will you be driven. Will the Prime Minister tell him how unacceptablely he treats investment in Greek and Skouria? The French Presidents - and not only the French Presidents - have the business of their own countries in their visits. Here, as a partner, will the Prime Minister tell him how he treats major investments that are even in the scarce or which give a fight against winds, make a cruising with opposite winds? Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say a final sentence for the visit of the French President. The delusion that was cultivated and cultivated by press bands at times - both in our own times and in your own time, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple - are sockets. The problems of countries are not solved by bilateral contacts, which must be done only if a government can make good use of them. But raising expectations leads citizens to a new round of political frustrations. What else is this virtual Prime Minister doing on his political despair, on his political despair? Without realizing that he was laughing at himself, he had the courage to present himself as a political successor and heir to Andreas Papandreou. This is a political atrocity of pharaonic proportions. You men, your predecessors, your ancestors, your fathers and your mothers in your party, sent him a special court. You will be soaking against him, saying that we have destroyed the country in the years of our government. And now you have exceeded the limits of any political degeneration and you are trying to fish for any vote in blush waters, considering that you are addressing the Greek people as if you were addressing the Ottototus, you are addressing the Greek people as if you were addressing people who have no intelligence. I would like to address my majority colleagues: do you accept this about Andreas Papandreou? Are you saying 'yes' now, after all, making self-criticism? Do you agree with these political interventions by your Chief? Ladies and gentlemen of the Complex, neither the French President nor the bracelet in the memory of Andreas Papandreou nor the International Exhibition will save you. The miracles are over because the influence of mocking is over. For the draft law, Mrs Christophilopoulou has made a number of contributions to the Standing Committee, stressing positive aspects of the draft law. In the negative that he has and which he has also stressed, he has the political generosity - as our party has it - to say, with that we agree with the other one. I would like to ask you this: When I had brought to Parliament L.3846/2010 on occupational safety, which is the first law - lawyers know it - who has regulated the matters of work that were not normal, which are rotating, the different forms of work flexibility, tell me what you have said and tell me what provisions you yourself have used as lawyers. Tell me a word you said, then showing political generosity. You were in the bars. But this law has helped. Yours are under discussion. And is it not, ladies and gentlemen, a form of mockery to say that you have changed - I have heard your rapporteur - bad texts for years with the first thirty two provisions of the draft law and to have made thirteen changes to the miserable Katorugalou law, which you have voted on and begged for? I said yesterday that in Article 1 you have five changes to the Katrugalu law. Why don't you say that? In the twenty-seven articles on industrial relations, you have read what you are observing - both for the first chapter and for the second - Parliament's Scientific Studies Department? Have you read what he notes about Article 40 - which you defended, both the MPs and the Ministry - about the need for voluntary departure in order to save workers from problems? Have you read what the Scientific Research Directorate tells you about this pre-formatively charitable provision of yours, about the specific obligation of the employer to send the out-of-court statement, to be threatened with fines? It makes you remarks for more than five cases of provision. You do not even read the texts, you do not treat them. In Rule 50 - I said yesterday, by addressing Mr Tsakalotos - the epitome of mockery, the dictation of the legal offices dealing with this matter, you are defending it while you know it. The Scientific Service of the House tells you things about Article 50 doesn't tell you, but the opposition tells you. And it's not just me saying it's where I'm at the profession. Other colleagues have taken the floor. What do you say with Article 50? That it is able to make a judicial procedure for issuing a payment order, that is, an inexpensive and very rapid procedure. Indeed. So, in paragraph 4, by regulating matters relating to the relevant procedures - you also record the legal means of opposition. Do you know what that means? You'll know that very well. You know that this is a procedure that is truly useless, which adds legal matter to specific legal offices, spends the worker without result. And you're on your way to that. We're taking note of it. The Communist Party told you other than that. I am making this point to you. You are defending a provision of mockery, a provision aimed at the bureaucracy of the trade unions. Nor is it the normal trade unions who are also addressing workers. And since we're talking about unionism, what happened to your trade unionists who, for five, six years of the economic crisis, had leading roles in the media, in the protests, in the pre-collapsing, in the beatings? They've disappeared. And yet, did you find a word to say here, where you enter institutions, supposedly charitable? Who's gonna control them. Do you have a face to talk to the National Representation about the Labour Inspectorate with all the problems? I've been supervising it for a month. I have experienced the enormous problems he had until I left the ministry to take on even more difficult tasks. Have you thought of needing a very effective Labour Inspectors' Corps to carry out these too many provisions, multi-purpose, bureaucratic, dictated by legal offices? You haven't thought about it. Here you come to demagogue, not to get into the essence of the issues. I'm hanging up with this, Mr. President. I said yesterday, in my intervention, that you are a party outside of political geography and we have been looking at you as a unity since 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017. I do not agree with the New Democracy that says 'Let's leave what it said before 2015'. Oh, no! All together is your one, as a political subject. I said yesterday that SYRIZA is outside European geography. Apart from the relationship and opposition left and right lies in the field of political demagogy. And I advise you to watch an old movie, the comedy of Claude Lelus, "Adventure is adventure". At the end of it you will see the photos of your policies. You will see your political self full of inconveniences, demagogues, skill and courage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u367	The State Secretary for Labour, Mr. Petropoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u368	Thank you, Mr President. Before the Single Act starts to work, we have taken a survey to see the level of citizens' satisfaction with the system that we have changed. It is the system that for decades you have left intact the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK, which you want to return. This law, Law No.4387/2016, is not Katrugalou, it is a law of our Government, which Parliament, by majority vote, took the responsibility of putting into effect to address the old problems that were accumulated, which you have been denounced over time and continue to renounce. The current provisions which we are introducing in no way leave old problems, which we must see again and resolve. For this reason, we solve the problem of accidents at work, which since 2012 on your own government, with four dead in OSE, fifteen dead in PPC, forty wounded in ELPAs, had not been judged. It is therefore not something that we are correcting from the Katorugalou law. Decoupling insurance from property is a problem that had caused huge debts to the insured, especially from the engineering sector, whose premiums were almost doubled in 2011. You increased them to an extent that it was impossible for people to repay them and create debtors. We are making it disconnect the insurance from the property so that everyone can pay contributions when they really have an activity. The acquisition of the natural years of voluntary insurance, which was in the fifth insurance category, went half as a cost to farmers. From almost EUR 1800, it is EUR 900 and on this basis EUR 900 farmers buy the fictitious years, so that they too, together with national pensions, are finally equal and a better level of decent pensions. With our provisions, pensions are granted to the prisoners, because it was a medieval perception to abolish this right to someone who is already in a bad position as a prisoner. A medieval concept that is now being abolished and granted pensions to the prisoners. We establish the indiscriminate retirement pension, which, by means of the provisions you served, was deleted, if it was three years after the date on which the pensions were granted. We have prolonged the granting of supplementary pensions if these cases have not been decided on in time by the competent doctors' committees. I think, of course, inconveniently, yesterday, it was said that those who are being examined by the CSR are also being misguided. It is therefore possible to extend the granting of disability benefits without any paradox. We abolished the death clause and the zero deficit clause. Because, apparently, time is too short, I will say that despite the lies being said, supplementary pensions which were not issued by 31-12-2014 were more than thirty thousand, and after 2015 are only sixty thousand and several of them have been granted. And now they are also being granted by surcharge, especially in the pensions of the EDF, and in general where we have a higher contribution than expected contributions for other insured persons. That is why I did not accept Mr Saridis' amendment. So this new development will be seen as soon as pensions are issued. The first sample of the issue of new pensions, with the new provisions of Law No.4387, of the law now in force for the issue of pensions, has a positive pension return, which is higher than 64.2% and only 35.8% pay a lower pension than the old ones. Of this, half, 50% alone, is with a pension loss of EUR 1 to 49. As regards ancillary services, Mr Brutsis, with the zero deficit clause, from 184 euros in 2014, today would have reached 105 euros, a reduction of at least 57.6%. It is a reduction that would continue every year and a smaller pension, because this is the zero deficit clause. As far as the contribution to the Equity Fund is concerned, we are talking about a share fund which had 660 million in 2006 and the benefits you have provided, in order to cash out shareholders' votes, ended up having half of the share capital. Because, in the meantime, you tripled the dividend you were giving, to be dull in power, which you only retained in such a way. Therefore, when you start to discuss, at least read the relevant provisions, evaluate them and appreciate them fairly and correctly. I am impressed by what you are saying about the organisational structure issues provided for by the Act, giving the Minister, by authorizing the Minister, the power to carry out relevant restructurings by December 2017, for the months that are remaining and until the establishment plan of the Single Social Security Agency, which is on the eighth month of operation, when even the United Kingdom, France, Finland, Sweden and any other country, has been five years since this relevant start of operation of such institutions, how much more than one body that is restructured from its base at all levels, when the EBRD has not been able to do an organisational chart since 2008 and for nine years. The EBRD's electronic services were that means and platform, Mr Mitsarakis, through which there was a rich and multi-monthly dialogue with the officials and officials of the Single Social Security Agency, whom I would like to thank from this position. We must honour them with the officials and officials of this institution, who are giving a great battle to operate what was never working in the past, which had distorted, inconsistencies and injustices. Twenty - nine million records had to be made 15 million in the end. Because this multitude and pluralism had nothing to do with reality. That is what we are doing, and we are going to apologise with a note we are going to issue with the completion of the eight months of the Single Social Security Agency to speak with real results, so that your own genuine team can finally start talking about the real facts, which - we prove - have nothing to do with what you have to say all these days.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u369	Thank you, Minister. Mr Karathanasopoulos has the floor, and then for three minutes Mr Brutsi and Mrs Christophilopoulos will be speaking and the Minister will finally speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u370	And I will speak, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u371	I too, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u372	We had said that we would all speak to the rapporteurs, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u373	Okay. Here, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u374	Thank you, Mr President. Throughout the debate - and yesterday and today - we have watched a number game and a convenient confrontation. And the government showed numbers, both the MPs of the co-government and the MPs of the Officerial Opposition for what unemployment was in 2014, what is today, for the wage level, who is to blame and who is not to blame for undeclared work. It is a convenient controversy, because it is precisely because it wants to cover up a reality for which the current government is of course responsible. But those who created the background were the previous governments, the New Democracy and the PASOK, with their policies. And what does that reality say? A generalized reduction in private and public wages. Generalization of flexible forms of work, parttime work. A spokesman of the New Democracy just before spoke of the miracle of tourism. What is the marvel of tourism, when hotel workers have fourteen different forms of employment contracts, reigning the intensification and immunity of employers, reigning in this sector? This is your child, Mr. Varvichiotis. It's your child, the contractors. It's your child's time and work contracts. This work jungle is mainly a work done by the New Democracy and the PASOK. And today, as killers, they're coming back to the crime scene. And now the pain of the representatives of the New Democracy has caught them for where the wages went, how much part-time was general when you implemented these when you legislated. And now you're crying? But these are crocodile tears to cover up the pressure on the government to complete the crime much faster. And you said, Mr Brutsis, 'Get the new trade union law limiting the strike and the trade union rights, and we'll vote on both hands.' Here, what you want, put even more obstacles. Because that's your purpose. You want an even more favourable environment for the action of business groups. You are hypocritically talking about lowering taxation and you are hiding that what you are interested in is reducing tax rates to business groups, in order to increase their profitability even more, to become even more competitive. And all the rest of the so-called pain to the working conditions are hypocritical. Of course, this system formed by the New Democracy and the PASOK has not only been maintained by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, but it has also taken a step further, making sure that the crime is completed. As the crime has been completed with the demolition of the social nature of insurance, so today in the context of the second assessment it will complete the other crime - we are talking about the liberalisation of the labour market - by abolishing what has now been left, these minimum, labour and trade union rights, to make the worker even cheaper and more consumable. And, of course, some of the SYRIZA speakers wisely who did not raise the tone. But, some others revolutionised all these measures that change the conditions in the labour market, protecting workers. Really, who are you selling all this to? Carbons are the treasure of the measures you bring. We told you yesterday that we raised very specific issues which you could not answer, or rather you confirmed the fears we had. And the treasure of protecting workers is carbon when you have literally secured the immunity of employers with the legislative framework that you have shaped, when you have changed the bankruptcy code. And this is your job, because the previous government was afraid to complete the change in the bankruptcy code, which, in essence, when a company "heavy cannon" is the ones with priority in the auction, the banks are then the taxes, the insurance funds, and in the end if there is anything left, it goes to the workers, even though they may owe this company the hair of their head to a contract. And yet they stay last, and they won't get anything. And we challenge you! Here, change the bankruptcy code, bring workers first to satisfaction, which is simple, you will not change the essence of the capitalist system, you cannot do it with anonymous companies and you are right in that. Hands up. This is why you do not bring either the main shareholder or the other members of the board of directors to be able to claim from their assets. You've ruled out anonymous companies. So who employer would claim property? From the one who has a personal company, an U.S., an E.S., from the small, while the anonymous companies you leave them in the unavoidable. And it could not be done otherwise because if we want to talk about the substance, we need to name the shares to know who the main shareholder is, which overturns the core core of the capitalist system with the anonymous share company. That's why you can't do it, and that's why you don't. Because you want to serve the interests of public limited companies, share companies, the interests of the capitalist system. In their name you are sacrificing labour rights. So through this procedure it may not be in your intentions, why do we not trial intentions with what you have put to claim on the employer's assets, what will be the result? Even greater concentration on the market, monoshopping from the big groups because the little ones will be thrown out. The figures today published by "NAYTTERRIC" what do they say? That in Greece the self-employed are 28%, when the average in the European Union is 14%, when in Germany they are 8% and in France 10%. You really want to shrink the part of self-employed and small businesses for the benefit of large monopolistic groups. This is what New Democracy started with the liberalisation of the market and with the so-called opening of the closed professions, you will continue with the further implementation of the OECD toolbox and the various other measures that you are taking. In this respect, we have caused you to accept the amendments made by the JRC. Not that they will change the situation, that they will bring up something revolutionary, but at least they will give more tools to workers to fight from better positions to claim their rights. And who's to blame, really, for this situation? Is it the lenders' fault? Is it the troika, the International Monetary Fund, the Symble which has these irrational demands? And of course it's their fault, but they're not, because they'd be easy opponents. Who's to blame? It is the same system that imposes these measures. The Association of Greek Enterprises and Industry itself requires these measures on the labour market, all of these overturns are its own requirements. And it's not just in Greece, it's happening everywhere. A previous speaker referred to this, but the reality of the matter is that I am going to invoke it. It is a preamble, Tuesday, to the Nayteborg and I will present it in the Minutes: "Germany: Germany's reform at work in 2002 resulted from 4.1 million who were in 2002 with mini jobs, today being 7.5 million and being paid up to 450 euros". This is the result, a cheap worker, a consumable and a replacement for collective agreements, sectoral contracts, operating contracts. Yesterday the Parliamentary spokesman for the River only did not faint with the "wonder" in Spain, how much unemployment was reduced. As an example, we are talking about Spain. What did he forget to say? That since 2015 90% of the new contracts signed have been temporary and - look out! - the share of these was of one week duration, i.e. one-week contracts that reduce unemployment. Because an unemployed person in the European Union is considered to have worked at least one hour a week. Those who have worked for at least an hour are considered workers. Well, that's what Spain did, so that part-time there is 26.1% and that's the second percentage of some employees. Here is the 'wonder' of reducing unemployment, sharing jobs with more people and generalizing part-time work. So it is clear that these measures taken by the previous governments and you, too, are necessary in order to shield the competitiveness of business groups and their profitability. In this very altar you sacrifice labour rights, sacrifice wage levels and satisfying people's needs, because precisely the intensity of exploitation is the only factor that shields competitiveness, the only source of capitalist profit. The capitalist profit can't come from anywhere else. Only the working man is out. Thus, the intensity of the exploitation is increasing also in capitalist profits. Capitalist gains, therefore, are, essentially, the killer of wages, labour rights, insurance rights, the increase in unemployment, and we must aim to that. Of course, because, precisely because we are entering the essence of the matter, it is characteristic that yesterday the parliamentary representative of the criminal organisation of the Golden Dawn said: 'Down with the profit'. "Don't hurt the capitalist profit," Parliamentary spokesman of the Fascist Golden Dawn said. It is normal when they have created slave trade offices to rent hunger workers and workers without rights and sell them. That is why they are resorting to this unprecedented and emetic anti-communism. Because, of course, they are on one side of a nightmare, but also because they know very well that only the overthrow of capitalist society can guarantee human rights, can ensure the right to life, can satisfy all the popular needs. That is why, with nails and teeth, they are really dogs when they hear even the word 'communism'. From this point of view - and I conclude with that, Mr President - Mr Tsakalots was absolutely right yesterday, which said that these measures are within the framework of the strategy of exit from the crisis and development. So the consumable worker, the worker without labour and insurance rights, which is the key factor in supporting capitalist business, is what you want to do, is what you want to impose, because it cannot be done otherwise. So, to conclude, we say it very clearly, that the workers must not have any illusions that their situation will change in such a way. They must make use of all the weapons they have and organize their struggle, so that they can protect their rights, make the situation even worse and reclaim the losses. But this can become an effective weapon in the hands of workers, when they join and signal the true guilty, when this struggle incorporates it into more comprehensive ruptures and overthrows, in order for the working class itself to take power in its own hands, to overthrow the capitalist system and build socialism - communism. This is the only way out.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u375	Thank you very much, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. Please facilitate the process, because the bill is huge. Mr. Brutsi, are you insisting on speaking?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u376	Yes, I need three minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u377	Two minutes from your position, Mr. Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u378	Mr President, what is this? One minute, the other two, the other three, the other four? Elasticity is established.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u379	All right, elasticity is established from the Bureau's point of view today. Please! Mr. Brutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u380	Mr President, the majority rapporteur first. Doesn't it go in a row?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u381	Last one, I'm talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u382	You're talking first.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u383	Mr. Vardakis, you will speak for two minutes from your position.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u384	Mr President, you owe me four minutes to defend two amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u385	I keep the interest on him for another day. For today you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u386	You'll give me seven minutes, or I'll go down, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u387	We said you'd get the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u388	Mr President, I would like to support two amendments, which are before Mr Kaklamanis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u389	Come on, please, make it easy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u390	All right, Mr President, let's not thank you. To thank the Minister for the two amendments he has accepted. He really evaluated it as urgent. It is the legislation to amend the repayment of JHA debts arising from loans granted by the European Investment Bank in 1993-96 through the Greek State. The other is legislation, which seeks to suspend criminal prosecution against those responsible, as the deferral of the execution of a sentence imposed or if it has begun to be executed or suspended, in the case of debts to the municipalities and regions regulated. They're two years old requests. Mr President, I would like to make a brief analysis of the draft law in any case. It has a positive sign, but you can't stay like this when, in these two days, you hear things like that, I can say jokes sometimes by the New Democracy colleagues. Now listen. You have excluded institutions from the dialogue from the dialogue, a colleague from the New Democracy. The thirty two bodies involved in the hearing on Tuesday, who were they? But you know, the agencies were positive and that's why it's not suited to mention it. It was thirty-two operators for the first time. An hour ago the bill was an empty letter, insignificant, mocking, communicating, and after an hour Mr Varvitsiotis says to us "remove substantial and innovative provisions". Here, really, you're lifting your hands up. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you - and here I turn to Mr Brutsi personally - that: can you tell us by 2013 whether the labour inspections had cars? They had fuel? The unions put the fuel in to do checks. We are currently giving EUR 7,600,000 for this purpose and you are telling us that it is a bill - syllable leaf. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] At some point we need to understand that we need to be exemplified by our mistakes, to be useful. Some colleagues from SYRIZA said you didn't read the bill. I disagree. The bill has been read very well, ladies and gentlemen, and that is why you have not put yourself on the ground. Because your line was to degrade this bill, which is trying to put a little bit of a bit of a liro so I don't make it out of all the trouble you've created in the past few years. Did you have a proposal? Did you introduce her? Are you here to tell us "correct this or do this"? You don't have a proposal. So once again you have shown your nakedness. I also made a proposal in my initial position that it would be good - it would be a direct'sorry' to the Greek people - to vote on the bill. So you would prove that you truly recognise the mistakes that have really impoverished the Greek people. Do you think now anyone believes that SYRIZA in two years has destroyed the country? Stop that fairy tale at last!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u391	Mr. Bardakis, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u392	You are finally not mocking the Greek people who have experienced your unbalanced policies in their minds! You're making fun of yourself. Also, Mr. Brutsi, the ink hasn't dryed when you abolished the OEC and the Labour House by guarding 7 billion. We've learned and talked about the billions as if they were real. You have reached 7 billion of the two organizations, which were the only public utility organizations. You've banned them and you're not telling us anything. You've booked hundreds of schools and kindergartens and we've come after 15 years to open schools on the first day...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u393	Mr. Vardakis, the schools...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u394	...with full composition, with all books...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u395	Mr. Bardakis, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u396	I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. In 2011, in 2012 we expected growth. You said growth was coming in 2013, in 2014. Did you see any growth? Of course we didn't see her.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u397	Come on, Mr. Brutsi, let's see if you saw any growth.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u398	Of course we didn't see her. You did the impossible and that is serious, Mr President. You have brought the active economic population on the same footing as the inactive. That's what you did. You handed us a country with a balance of two employees - a retired person, and you're talking about an insurance system? You even cut off the Unemployment Fund. I told you the other day. Don't talk about group redundancies, because you were the first, and I'm telling you, and I'm going to give you the right to answer...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u399	Thank you so much!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u400	Mr. Vardakis, this is no time to run the conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u401	...which, by d.d.94/2014, you started team redundancies at the CBC. Mr. Metarakis, the day before yesterday you started telling us about some laws. Somewhere you stopped, because you obviously saw that he wasn't calling you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u402	Mr. Vardakis, will you put a perfect one?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u403	I'm hanging up with this. Laws 4002, 4024, 4046, 4093 - not to make any mistakes -3845 and 3986 were the laws that impoverished the Greek people. You have cut wages, cut pensions, cut allowances, and retrospectively.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u404	What year is the law you said?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u405	Let me tell you something else - and I'm ending with it - to see what social sensitivities were.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u406	Finish, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u407	You cut off the childbirth allowance to women, because she had to, she says, to be entitled to the childbirth allowance, to give birth to the street or the field. And you're talking about social policy. Listen! You are the perpetrators and not the victims, and you must understand that and ask for a great apologies to the Greek people. You must vote in favour of this bill, which puts a stone for the dignity of the Greek worker.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u408	Mr. Brutsis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u409	Mr President, Mr Petropoulos has suffered disastrous contradictions and lies towards the Greek Parliament, and I say this because he is now absent. I wanted him to hear what I'm going to say, but unfortunately he's gone. He said to the Greek people that supplementary pensions were given. And I ask: From 1-1-2015, the hundreds of twenty-nine thousand frozen pensions are given, since they have not come out of a mathematical formula, Madam Minister of Labour? I think you'll answer later. Two. Ladies and gentlemen, only yesterday Eurogroup said that it freezes the dose in Greece of EUR 800 million, because the incapacity of 5.4 million or part of it to the public sector has not been attributed to or part of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u410	When did he say that? What's freezing?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u411	I would like to say this: this money, Mr President, why do they not go to the beneficiaries of the three hundred thousand pensions?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u412	Do you have any evidence? If you have, testify.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u413	And I'm going to the next one. Mr. Petropoulos made an unacceptable statement. Let it be understood that by 2019 it will correct pensions, it will increase them, when on January 1, 2019, two or three pensions will be cut. I now come to the Minister. I do not know the political process and it is unprecedented for me that the Minister closes the debate. But I would like to say that I am translating this as a political evasion or political cowardice, because there will be no representative. Members are now missing, there are no other speakers, so what the Minister says is not going to stand. This is SYRIZA's democracy! I don't like her. But listen. Empty shirt, Minister. Today you have been personally retreated once again. You withdrew your flagship provisions through the bill, which you have brought up to now, just now, and your personal amendment. There's no such precedent. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The Minister withdrew as soon as he dropped - this has no precedent - the personal amendment, the four-page amendment on at all, along with the other provisions of the law that he withdrew. That means something. He's confirming it's handy. I don't want to think about anything else. You know what I mean. It is essentially a backwardness on the part of the government. I would like to say another thing, which I also consider to be serious. Because this debate was primarily an issue on work, although it was an insurance bill, I would like to say to Mr Petropoulos that it is the seventeenth insurance bill in nineteen months. Every month they correct the Katorugalou law. About every month and a bill for Katrugalo.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u414	Put it down, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u415	I tabled a table on receiving undeclared work at 40% and handed it over to 13%. It's been two days, and the Minister didn't answer, firstly, because three years...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u416	He can answer now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u417	...has never seen the evidence before, and secondly, what the level of undeclared work is today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u418	So do we. Mrs Christophilopoulou has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u419	Mr President, I call for equality. As I shall be placed on Mr Vardakis' amendments and on our amendment, I would ask for a minimum of four minutes of equality of arms. I would ask you, Mr President, to have equal opportunities.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u420	Keep going, Mrs. Christophilopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u421	Let me start with the amendments. I think that both of the amendments tabled by Mr Vardakis are positive and we, as Democratic Reconciliation, are not going to say that we are not voting for anything positive, because we are the government and we are opposition. One of the prisoners. Secondly, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the amendment to the Democratic Partnership has a burning, socially unjust issue, one of the very many crimes of the monstrous monstrous regime, which is the law of Katrugalo, which concerns widows. We have heard here, Mr President, Mr Petropoulos who has left, saying that the issue will arise in 2019. Please warmly, Minister, accept the association that these women have joined, so that they can tell you what they are dealing with, what they are living and how they are poor. Because your fellow Members have sent this issue, I would ask you, very warmly, even at the last minute, to accept the amendment of the Democratic Alliance concerning widows, but it is also about the possibility that the people insured in the OAU should have a decent debt arrangement. I think these two issues are major. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing.]] Mr President, you can see I'm going too fast. I am now going to the two-minute - three minutes I have to comment on, closing this bill. It is clear that you did not want social dialogue and did not want it, because at last you called and heard thirty bodies in one afternoon. Please do not tell us that you have sent to the Committee. The law says what the ESC needs, so that there can be a substantial process of drafting the bill by its own services and discussion within the Committee of all the actors, employers and workers. You understand, Minister, and I'm sure you've read the law. For the bill you sent to the Committee, if you wanted a social dialogue on substance and opinions from the social partners, it was worked out by the law - and Mr Vardakis, who is a rapporteur and a trade union official who was well aware of it - that it takes at least thirty days before and forty. So don't tell us those things. You didn't want to. It seemed that you wanted last time to bring some positive provisions, to "blue" the situation, so that Mr. Tsipras could go to DHS and say something, because as I said before, the king is naked. Closed up, I'm wondering something last. What was it that made you withdraw a otherwise positive provision? Why did you withdraw it? I am speaking, ladies and gentlemen, about the consultation provision. Again for the consultation within the primary unit, which is each company, which exists under our law, which you extended, and we said it was right. It is right, because it makes sense for workers to be able, in fact, to prove that they have received knowledge of the consultation and that it has actually been done. So why did this retire? I want you to tell me. I asked you in private before, but I think I should put this at the end of the bill, because I think it is a disgrace and it proves precisely that this bill has come at the last minute, to 'block' what is not 'blocked'. People are listening to us, people are listening to us, retired, young people. As far as micro-positive provisions are concerned, I would once again say that we will be positive, but when a positive provision last minute takes it and withdraw it, something is happening. You are obliged, Minister, to tell us why, and to give the Greek Parliament the assurance and assurance that you will bring this provision and when you will bring it. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u422	Mr Kattotis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u423	Madam Minister, we have brought the four amendments. You rejected them. If, in fact, you intend to contribute as a government to the payment of the wages as an irreparable obligation of any employer, then you must see what is missing and what is not the case with regard to the non-payment of the wages. Why is it not implemented? What do the prosecutors invoke? They are invoking exactly what we are saying on the debacle day that is being dealt with in our amendment. You're the ones who say the law foreshadows it. However, this is invoked and implemented, so that no one pays and no one has any punishment. That is, therefore, a matter. If, then, you do want to accept our amendment. As far as Corporate Law is concerned, we are talking about extending the liability to shareholders, and you say that Corporate Law on a.e. It seems to me that it does not guarantee the unfounded obligation to pay the accrued sums. Three years, however, you are watching anonymous companies which have the same practice as workers. The shareholders and the main shareholders are bankrupt, and the workers are literally on the road. Here, while we have tabled an amendment specifically for their responsibility, you say that you cannot accept it. So to the unavoidable a.e. not to pay, to do the violations and the workers never to find their point. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Also, Minister, if corporate law is so, change it. You tell us what else you propose, so that workers can ensure what we say 'the self-evident'. Yesterday' s self-evident wages paid to workers for the work they have done today are unthinkable and you do not guarantee it by not accepting our amendments. Bankruptcy law has told you, and our parliamentary representative has told you, it is your job. Last workers. Why don't you change that? Aren't they busy? Isn't that what the worker's family lives for? Doesn't he pay their rent and the rest? That's what their kids don't live on? Why should they be last and seek through this swing of the law that you have created, their money, their wages and the other claims?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u424	Thank you, Mr Katsotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u425	Finally, Mr President, I say that the working class cannot reconcile overturns either with labour or with insurance rights. It is not compatible with the work jungle, unpaid and uninsured work. It is incompatible with the abolition of collective agreements. It is inconsistent with the reasoning of the lesser evil that you in here - and those who are, and those who are, and those who are, are - are applying. It organises its struggle, despite the difficulties it encounters, to cover losses, to sign collective agreements with increases in wages by imposing other conditions of employment. Their struggle needs to get subversive features. In front you will find obstacles to the implementation of what you have committed to the trade union law. You will find obstacles to codify labour law with all these twists that have taken place so far.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u426	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u427	Mr. Papachristopoulos, you haven't asked for the floor, but you've got two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u428	I would not do so, Mr President, if not all the rapporteurs and the special speakers were to use it. I wouldn't have done it. I'd respect it. I will be brief nonetheless. Some have not heard in this Chamber that there is a payment order for the first time. They did not hear that the worker could carry out it against the employer's property. They didn't hear about the unemployment benefit, which was an unknown job for the unpaid. I say it again, there are a lot of people who have to pay for months. Because I heard, a lot of people in here say they hear us. Yeah, he hears people who have two, three, five, ten, twenty months to pay. They did not hear that the ambush of the Ice Bay, which was "speakings, leavings", was overtaken by a special case law in July. They did not hear that the endless judicial procedure that lasted for years was limited to sixty days, postponed for thirty days and the debate in thirty days. They did not hear that for the first time, therefore, the worker's right is guaranteed and shielded. I conclude by saying yesterday, Mr President, that two polls have come out, which give seven units of difference. The Civic Opposition was accustomed to 18%, 19% difference. That's what Mr. Maranzidis told her. And it eats the slap, where their polls give them 6%, 7%, 7.5% difference. There is a great turbulence in the opposition officer's party, for which we are not responsible. Learn to fight seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u429	Thank you, too. I should like to thank Mr Papachristopoulos for keeping time not for the polls. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u430	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my position, with some information on the wider economic and political context in which this draft law comes. I think that will also allow us the criticality of the intervention, to understand the perception of it. It is clear that the Greek economy is going through a dynamic recovery phase. These are not my estimates, they are not estimates in the future. It's a reality, based on specific data. ELSTAT's recent data for the second quarter of 2017 show an increase of GDP of 0.8% compared to the corresponding quarter of 2016. We have a significant increase in exports of more than 20% in May 2017 compared to May 2016 and a significant increase in investments in the first quarter of 2017 compared to that in 2016. I will submit to the Minutes, because I do not want to go back to a number debate, - and this is perhaps right for the spokesman of the JRC, that we are having a constant confrontation of numbers and someone who is following the debate, is unable to understand exactly what we are discussing - all the evidence that I have claimed the previous times, that more than two thousand jobs have been reduced during the period of the Government of New Democracy, that seismic overthrows in the relationship between full employment and part-time occurred in the period 2013-2014 and that the real decline in wages and legislation and the market also occurred in the period 2013-2014. The data show that we are now in a phase of stabilisation in relation to wages. I take great care of my expressions so that impressions are not created. [[At this point, Minister Efi Ahtsoglou submits for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] There is a noise, but in the Chamber, and reality often outweighs us. ELSTAT a moment ago announced the unemployment rate for June 2017. It is even lower than what we have been discussing all these days. It's 21.2%. What does that mean? It means that unemployment remains extremely high in the country. However, we have a very significant and very stable decline in unemployment, and at the moment we are about back to unemployment, which was at the end of 2011. It seems, in other words, that we are starting to gain the lost ground that has been shaped in the crisis. I would like to say again that I am not saying this about the creation of impressions, but just to say that at this very moment of positive dynamics, this trend towards recovery of the economy, which the indicators seem to be going better, is precisely the moment when we have to intervene with regard to social protection, so that we do not go back to a development model, which we have seen in recent decades, which has confused labour protection and labour rights, at the same time as the numbers prosperous, so that we do not return to this model of development, where the numbers prosper and people suffer, so that we can do this well-being that occurs in the indicators, so that we can go to the daily lives of the workers. That is why I think that this time is appropriate for us to have this debate on such a bill, which I do not think anyone in this Chamber can say that it does not strengthen labour rights, for others more, for others less. However, it cannot be understood that it is an intervention in favour of the world of work. That's why this moment is right to have this conversation, not because it's before the ICU, not to fill any "baskets" or for communication games or to create smoke etc. It is a crucial time to reintroduce certain security differences in the world of work, which experienced the data in the years of the crisis. It is this crucial moment to shield the framework so that we do not go back to a model of development that has exacerbated social inequalities. The bill, therefore, does not doubt that it is a bill that is positive to all its regulations for the workers, for the insured. It's moving on three main lines. It is the insurance arrangements, which solve daily problems, chronic problems and settle permanent claims for insured persons. It is the work arrangements for undeclared, declared and unpaid work, and they are also the very important regulations that have not been discussed as far as they are worthwhile, concerning the extension of the rights of people with disabilities and the improvement of their daily lives. I am going to focus on the labour side, and I would like to respond here to what the Ministry of Labour is doing in relation to the undeclared work and undeclared work, because I think I also owe an answer to the rapporteur of the New Democracy, who has put some figures and has asked what this Government is doing about undeclared work, but also a reply to the Member of the Democratic Incorporation who said that I am here to denounce and carry out a lot of personal designations, which I am opposed to, precisely because I respect the National Representation, but it does not mean that I tolerate them. What, then, does this government do? First of all, I will give the Minutes this chart, which shows exactly where undeclared work has been over the years, because I think that is the right reading, to see every year where undeclared work is. [[At this point, Minister Efi Ahtsoglou submits for the minutes the abovementioned chart, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] I think you will forgive me when I said that 2014 was 20%, while it was 19.17%. I don't think we're gonna get any misunderstandings about 0.8%. It shows that we went from 30% in 2013 to 19.17% in 2014, to 16% in 2015, to 13.3% in 2016. Now what do we have to look out for here? I don't think we're gonna argue with numbers. I think it is right that we should talk about the annual recording of undeclared work. But what we need to be careful about is this. It is very common now - and this is what the Labour Inspectorate says - to reduce undeclared work, but to increase paid work. In other words, it is more frequent where workers are being declared, but they are not declared for as long as they really work. There we are hiding the problem today, and this issue of alleged work, we are putting it in the forefront. So in the Ministry of Labour we are doing this: we are strengthening the Labour Inspectorate first of all in human resources. We've already made fifty hires. In the next few days there will be another sixty, they'll be announced, and about a hundred of the transfers. Its new establishment plan provides for a hundred and fifty jobs in addition to the audit mechanism. I think that primarily an audit mechanism, you need to arm him with staff. Again, two hundred organic positions have been abolished in the New Democracy Government. This is to discuss the facts. The Legal Support Section has been removed, the Information Systems Department has been removed. All this is reconstituting and returning the Labour Inspectorate with a greater labour market dynamic. We are strengthening it financially. EUR 7.5 million was approved by the NSRP to carry out pilot checks to strengthen legal support for workers. We also support it in tools. It now has 1-1-2017 an information system, which helps to make targeted and effective controls. The third axis with which we are intervening is precisely this bill, that is to say, to strengthen the institutional framework, to put security margins, to ensure that there are rights that may exist, but in practice they were being violated or to extend labour rights where there were no rights. So this bill must be seen as another link, in a chain that we are developing to deal with infrastability in workplaces, as another step in an overall strategy that we are working on at the Ministry of Labour. She's giving answers to all this bill? Oh, no. I said it another time. We do not claim that this bill solves all the problems of the world of work or heals all the wounds on the market. But it is an important step - I think - and it is a turning point with regard in particular to dealing with infringements, dealing with undeclared work, unpaid work. It certainly supports - without any other - workers' rights to infringement practices and abuse of employers' behaviour. It actually strengthens the protection of workers, and that is a political option. That's the choice we make. We are making this choice under tough comitology conditions. This option is intended to serve until August 2018, when we will be leaving the Financial Adjustment Programme. I have heard during the entire discussion of Civic Opposition, mainly due to poor arguments, criticise the time when the bill was submitted, connecting it to communication games ahead of PI or "bads" in the light of the International Exhibition. I think that apart from a failed attempt to articulate opposition, this attitude and something else proves. It shows that some have a difficulty in supporting measures that strengthen the world of work. But what I don't think you understand, gentlemen, when you deceive the bill, is that you don't deceive the government when you deceive any rules of this bill. You demand an entire world and its problems. You despise them, because each regulation of this bill responds to specific problems and implements interventions. Improving the day-to-day life of the workers. No matter how much noise you create, no matter how much smoke you try to throw beyond this debate, this cannot be distorted. Sadly, for you the flagship provisions of this bill - which has now suddenly caught you a terrible anxiety about information and consultation in business! - they're here, they're in front of you and you're gonna need to get in position. I heard yesterday in an attempt to make the bill comprehensive and by the officers of the Officerial Representation say: 'What does this bill have to do with the economy and unemployment?' Really? What does black work have to do with the economy and unemployment? What does undeclared work have to do with economy and unemployment? Really? Is that a serious criticism? Do you really not see the relationship between 'black' work and the economy and unemployment? I think that if we want to talk, one thing we need to do, it is to discuss in a rational context and discuss and criticise but in a reasonable context. So I will go to another criticism, which I consider to be more creative and more forward for the debate, in this criticism that says that the provisions of this bill are too repressive or too punishing, have this punishing character. I think that he also answered it in a very characteristic way and Mr Haritsis, who was here earlier, how in reality these provisions can act as an overall incentive to change culture in the labour market, can initiate a mechanism of overall improvement in the labour market. Why is there any greater incentive to say that from now on public money will be given only to those who respect labour legislation, from now on, only to those who respect labour rights, from now on will only those who respect labour rights be granted a subsidy, not those who respect labour rights alone? Isn't that a really serious incentive to comply with labour legislation? Is it not a serious effort, so that this labour market will begin to change and that the firms concerned will also proceed with this favourable framework, both for work and for consistent employers? Because I think that that is where we should ultimately aim, in building this strong alliance of the state, of the workers, but also of those companies that can and want to be consistent with them, I think that this bill is only a rewarding one. Another criticism is that there are too many bureaucratic procedures in this bill, which are burdening employers, etc. In fact most of the provisions on undeclared and implied work are modernisational provisions, i.e. in many cases they withdraw these books kept in hand and are replaced by electronic communication systems. We are working to simplify it even more, so that it is possible, with a simple SMS, to declare overtime and not add any additional bureaucratic costs. At some point, however, when we have a social problem, such as undeclared work, unpaid work, I think we should take a position. We all hear them, we hear them, we record their disagreements, their problems, we try to make them easier. But when you have a problem like that, at the end of the day, you have to take a position. Our position is clear. We are in this problem with the world of work. We're setting up such security patterns that serve this side. Some of us are going to get rid of them. The ones we are going to undo are those who are illegal, those who do not want to respect labour rights. They'll get away with it. This is a political choice. That is why I think the crucial question in front of this bill, as well as any bill, is to ask the Members who serve these provisions, what they serve, and if they consider themselves to be in favour of or against them, whom these arrangements serve. The contagious devices are all here. For good or bad. But they're all here and they're calling you to take a seat. I think that the Vice-Presidents too, if anything, should ask themselves if each of these provisions helps or does not help workers in particular. Questions are simple and specific. Does the prior declaration of overtime help the worker to be paid and declared overtime or does not help him? Does the payment order - and here's the payment order - mean an enforceable title against the employer's property and when he is a legal person, to the detriment of the legal person, is this not undone - the employee to get his belongings more easily or does he not help him? Is it helping the worker to make a quicker decision and to make a redundancy payment more quickly or does it not help him? Does it help the unemployment benefit of a worker trapped in a business that doesn't pay him or does it not help him? I think that the answers are clear, the questions are clear, the position is clear and there is clear orientation. You should place on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u431	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles, amendments and the entire draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity is adjourned: 'Retirement regulations and other insurance provisions, strengthening the protection of workers, the rights of persons with disabilities and other provisions'. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u432	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u433	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u434	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u435	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u436	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u437	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u438	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u439	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u440	Consequently, the Law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity: ‘Retirement regulations and other insurance provisions, strengthening the protection of workers, the rights of persons with disabilities and other provisions’ was accepted in the first place by a majority. We are entering the vote on the articles and they will be voted on separately. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u441	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u442	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u443	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u444	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u445	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u446	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u447	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u448	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u449	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Can Article 2, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u450	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u451	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u452	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u453	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u454	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u455	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u456	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u457	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u458	Article 2 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Can Article 3, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u459	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u460	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u461	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u462	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u463	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u464	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u465	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u466	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u467	Article 3 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 4, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u468	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u469	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u470	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u471	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u472	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u473	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u474	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u475	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u476	Article 4 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u477	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u478	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u479	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u480	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u481	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u482	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u483	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u484	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u485	Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u486	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u487	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u488	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u489	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u490	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u491	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u492	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u493	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u494	Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 7 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u495	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u496	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u497	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u498	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u499	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u500	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u501	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u502	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u503	Article 7 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Article 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u504	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u505	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u506	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u507	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u508	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u509	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u510	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u511	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u512	Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 9 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u513	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u514	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u515	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u516	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u517	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u518	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u519	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u520	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u521	Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u522	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u523	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u524	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u525	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u526	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u527	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u528	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u529	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u530	Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 11 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u531	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u532	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u533	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u534	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u535	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u536	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u537	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u538	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u539	Article 11 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u540	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u541	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u542	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u543	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u544	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u545	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u546	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u547	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u548	Article 12 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 13 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u549	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u550	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u551	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u552	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u553	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u554	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u555	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u556	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u557	Article 13 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 14 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u558	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u559	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u560	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u561	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u562	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u563	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u564	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u565	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u566	Article 14 has therefore been accepted as majority. The original Articles 15 and 18 shall be deleted. Does this House accept the new Article 15 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u567	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u568	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u569	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u570	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u571	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u572	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u573	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u574	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u575	The new Article 15 has therefore been accepted as a majority. Can the House accept the new Article 16, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u576	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u577	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u578	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u579	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u580	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u581	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u582	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u583	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u584	The new Article 16 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 17 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u585	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u586	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u587	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u588	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u589	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u590	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u591	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u592	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u593	The new Article 17 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept the new Article 18 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u594	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u595	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u596	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u597	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u598	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u599	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u600	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u601	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u602	The new Article 18 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does the House accept the new Article 19, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u603	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u604	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u605	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u606	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u607	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u608	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u609	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u610	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u611	The new Article 19 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Can the House accept the new Article 20, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u612	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u613	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u614	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u615	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u616	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u617	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u618	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u619	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u620	The new Article 20 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept the new Article 21 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u621	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u622	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u623	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u624	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u625	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u626	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u627	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u628	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u629	The new Article 21 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept the new Article 22 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u630	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u631	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u632	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u633	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u634	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u635	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u636	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u637	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u638	The new Article 22 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept the new Article 23 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u639	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u640	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u641	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u642	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u643	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u644	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u645	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u646	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u647	The new Article 23 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept the new Article 24 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u648	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u649	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u650	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u651	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u652	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u653	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u654	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u655	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u656	The new Article 24 has therefore been accepted as a majority. Does this House accept the new Article 25 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u657	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u658	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u659	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u660	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u661	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u662	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u663	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u664	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u665	The new Article 25 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept the new Article 26 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u666	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u667	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u668	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u669	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u670	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u671	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u672	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u673	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u674	The new Article 26 has therefore been accepted as being majority. Does this House accept the new Article 27 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u675	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u676	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u677	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u678	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u679	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u680	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u681	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u682	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u683	The new Article 27, therefore, has been accepted as a majority. Does this House accept the new Article 28 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u684	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u685	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u686	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u687	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u688	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u689	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u690	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u691	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u692	The new Article 28 therefore has been accepted as a majority. Does this House accept the new Article 29 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u693	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u694	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u695	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u696	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u697	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u698	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u699	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u700	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u701	The new Article 29, therefore, has been accepted as a majority. Does the House accept the new Article 30 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u702	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u703	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u704	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u705	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u706	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u707	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u708	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u709	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u710	Therefore, the new Article 30 was unanimously accepted. Does the House accept Rule 31 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u711	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u712	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u713	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u714	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u715	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u716	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u717	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u718	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u719	The new Article 31 has therefore been accepted as a majority. Can the House accept the new Article 32 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u720	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u721	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u722	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u723	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u724	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u725	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u726	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u727	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u728	The new Article 32 has therefore been accepted as a majority. Can the House accept the new Article 33, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u729	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u730	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u731	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u732	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u733	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u734	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u735	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u736	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u737	The new Article 33 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does the House accept the new Rule 34 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u738	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u739	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u740	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u741	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u742	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u743	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u744	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u745	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u746	The new Article 34 has therefore been accepted as a majority. Does the House accept Rule 35 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u747	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u748	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u749	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u750	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u751	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u752	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u753	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u754	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u755	The new Article 35 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does the House accept the new Article 36 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u756	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u757	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u758	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u759	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u760	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u761	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u762	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u763	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u764	The new Article 36 has therefore been accepted as a majority. Does the House accept Rule 37 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u765	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u766	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u767	Presently, due to the imperfection of the provision.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u768	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u769	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u770	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u771	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u772	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u773	The new Article 37 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does the House agree to the new Rule 38, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u774	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u775	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u776	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u777	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u778	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u779	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u780	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u781	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u782	The new Article 38 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Can the House accept the new Article 39, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u783	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u784	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u785	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u786	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u787	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u788	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u789	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u790	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u791	The new Article 39 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. A new Article 40 shall be added. Can the House accept the new Article 40 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u792	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u793	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u794	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u795	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u796	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u797	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u798	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u799	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u800	The new Article 40 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept the new Article 41 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u801	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u802	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u803	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u804	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u805	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u806	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u807	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u808	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u809	The new Article 41 has therefore been accepted as a majority. Does this House accept the new Article 42 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u810	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u811	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u812	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u813	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u814	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u815	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u816	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u817	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u818	The new Article 42 was therefore accepted as it is majority. Asked by this House: Can the new Rule 43 be accepted - original Rule 44 - as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u819	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u820	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u821	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u822	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u823	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u824	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u825	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u826	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u827	The new Article 43 was therefore accepted as a majority. The original Article 45 shall be deleted. Asked by this House: is the new Rule 44 accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u828	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u829	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u830	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u831	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u832	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u833	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u834	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u835	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u836	The new Article 44 therefore has been accepted as it has unanimously been. Does the House agree that the new Article 45 is adopted as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u837	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u838	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u839	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u840	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u841	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u842	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u843	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u844	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u845	The new Article 45 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept the new Article 46 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u846	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u847	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u848	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u849	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u850	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u851	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u852	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u853	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u854	The new Article 46 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does the House accept Rule 47 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u855	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u856	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u857	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u858	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u859	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u860	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u861	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u862	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u863	The new Article 47, therefore, was accepted as it is by a majority. Can the House accept the new Rule 48, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u864	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u865	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u866	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u867	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u868	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u869	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u870	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u871	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u872	The new Article 48 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Asked by this House: is the new Article 49 accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u873	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u874	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u875	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u876	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u877	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u878	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u879	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u880	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u881	The new Article 49 therefore has been accepted as a majority. Does the House accept the new Article 50 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u882	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u883	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u884	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u885	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u886	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u887	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u888	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u889	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u890	The new Article 50 has therefore been accepted as a majority. Does this House accept the new Article 51 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u891	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u892	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u893	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u894	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u895	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u896	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u897	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u898	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u899	The new Article 51 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does the House accept the new Article 52 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u900	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u901	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u902	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u903	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u904	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u905	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u906	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u907	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u908	The new Article 52 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does the House accept Rule 53 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u909	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u910	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u911	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u912	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u913	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u914	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u915	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u916	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u917	The new Article 53 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does the House accept the new Article 54 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u918	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u919	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u920	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u921	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u922	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u923	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u924	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u925	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u926	The new Article 54 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept the new Article 55 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u927	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u928	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u929	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u930	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u931	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u932	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u933	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u934	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u935	The new Article 55 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does the House accept the new Article 56 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u936	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u937	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u938	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u939	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u940	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u941	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u942	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u943	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u944	The new Article 56 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does the House accept the new Article 57, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u945	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u946	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u947	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u948	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u949	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u950	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u951	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u952	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u953	The new Article 57 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept the new Article 58 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u954	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u955	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u956	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u957	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u958	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u959	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u960	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u961	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u962	The new Article 58 was therefore accepted as a majority. Can the House accept the new Article 59 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u963	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u964	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u965	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u966	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u967	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u968	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u969	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u970	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u971	The new Article 59 was therefore accepted as a majority. Can the House accept the new Article 60 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u972	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u973	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u974	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u975	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u976	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u977	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u978	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u979	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u980	The new Article 60 was therefore accepted as a majority. Can the House accept the new Article 61, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u981	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u982	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u983	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u984	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u985	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u986	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u987	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u988	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u989	The new Article 61 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Can the House accept the new Article 62, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u990	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u991	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u992	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u993	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u994	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u995	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u996	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u997	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u998	The new Article 62 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Can the House accept the new Rule 63, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u999	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1000	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1001	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1002	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1003	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1004	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1005	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1006	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1007	The new Article 63 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does the House accept the new Article 64 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1008	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1009	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1010	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1011	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1012	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1013	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1014	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1015	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1016	The new Article 64 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does the House agree to the new Article 65, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1017	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1018	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1019	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1020	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1021	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1022	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1023	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1024	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1025	The new Article 65 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Can the House accept the new Article 66, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1026	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1027	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1028	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1029	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1030	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1031	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1032	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1033	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1034	The new Article 66 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Can the House accept the new Rule 67, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1035	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1036	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1037	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1038	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1039	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1040	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1041	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1042	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1043	The new Article 67 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does the House agree to the new Article 68, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1044	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1045	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1046	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1047	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1048	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1049	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1050	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1051	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1052	The new Article 68 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Can the House accept the new Article 69, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1053	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1054	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1055	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1056	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1057	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1058	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1059	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1060	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1061	The new Article 69 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Can the House accept the new Article 70, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1062	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1063	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1064	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1065	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1066	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1067	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1068	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1069	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1070	The new Article 70 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Can the House accept the new Rule 71, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1071	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1072	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1073	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1074	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1075	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1076	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1077	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1078	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1079	The new Article 71 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does the House agree to the new Rule 72, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1080	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1081	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1082	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1083	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1084	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1085	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1086	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1087	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1088	The new Article 72 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does the House accept Rule 73 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1089	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1090	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1091	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1092	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1093	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1094	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1095	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1096	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1097	The new Article 73 was therefore accepted as a majority. Can the House accept the new Rule 74, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1098	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1099	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1100	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1101	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1102	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1103	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1104	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1105	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1106	The new Article 74 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does the House accept the new Article 75 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1107	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1108	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1109	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1110	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1111	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1112	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1113	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1114	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1115	The new Article 75 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does the House accept the new Article 76 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1116	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1117	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1118	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1119	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1120	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1121	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1122	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1123	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1124	The new Article 76 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does the House agree to the new Rule 77, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1125	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1126	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1127	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1128	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1129	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1130	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1131	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1132	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1133	The new Article 77 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does the House accept Rule 78 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1134	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1135	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1136	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1137	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1138	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1139	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1140	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1141	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1142	The new Article 78 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does the House accept Rule 79 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1143	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1144	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1145	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1146	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1147	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1148	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1149	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1150	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1151	The new Article 79 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does the House accept the new Article 80 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1152	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1153	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1154	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1155	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1156	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1157	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1158	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1159	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1160	The new Article 80 therefore has been accepted as a majority. Does this House accept the new Article 81 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1161	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1162	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1163	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1164	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1165	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1166	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1167	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1168	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1169	The new Article 81 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does the House accept Rule 82 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1170	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1171	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1172	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1173	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1174	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1175	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1176	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1177	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1178	The new Article 82 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does the House accept Rule 83 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1179	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1180	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1181	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1182	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1183	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1184	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1185	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1186	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1187	The new Article 83 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does the House accept Rule 84 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1188	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1189	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1190	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1191	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1192	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1193	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1194	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1195	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1196	The new Article 84 therefore has been accepted as a majority. Does the House accept the new Article 85 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1197	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1198	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1199	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1200	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1201	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1202	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1203	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1204	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1205	The new Article 85 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does the House accept the new Article 86 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1206	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1207	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1208	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1209	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1210	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1211	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1212	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1213	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1214	The new Article 86 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does the House accept Rule 87 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1215	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1216	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1217	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1218	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1219	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1220	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1221	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1222	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1223	The new Article 87 was therefore accepted as it is majority. Does the House accept the new Article 88 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1224	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1225	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1226	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1227	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1228	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1229	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1230	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1231	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1232	The new Article 88 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does the House accept the new Article 89 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1233	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1234	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1235	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1236	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1237	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1238	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1239	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1240	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1241	The new Article 89, therefore, was adopted as a majority. Does the House accept the new Article 90 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1242	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1243	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1244	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1245	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1246	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1247	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1248	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1249	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1250	The new Article 90 therefore has been accepted as a majority. Does the House accept the new Article 91 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1251	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1252	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1253	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1254	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1255	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1256	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1257	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1258	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1259	The new Article 91 has therefore been accepted as a majority. Does the House accept the new Article 92 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1260	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1261	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1262	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1263	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1264	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1265	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1266	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1267	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1268	The new Article 92 has therefore been accepted as a majority. Does the House accept Rule 93 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1269	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1270	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1271	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1272	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1273	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1274	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1275	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1276	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1277	The new Article 93 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does the House accept Rule 94 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1278	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1279	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1280	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1281	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1282	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1283	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1284	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1285	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1286	The new Article 94 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does the House accept the new Article 95 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1287	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1288	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1289	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1290	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1291	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1292	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1293	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1294	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1295	The new Article 95 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does the House accept the new Article 96 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1296	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1297	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1298	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1299	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1300	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1301	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1302	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1303	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1304	The new Article 96 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept the new Article 97 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1305	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1306	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1307	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1308	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1309	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1310	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1311	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1312	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1313	The new Article 97 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does the House accept the new Article 98 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1314	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1315	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1316	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1317	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1318	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1319	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1320	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1321	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1322	The new Article 98 therefore has been accepted as a majority. Does the House accept the new Article 99 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1323	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1324	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1325	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1326	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1327	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1328	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1329	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1330	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1331	The new Article 99 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept the new Article 100 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1332	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1333	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1334	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1335	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1336	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1337	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1338	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1339	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1340	The new Article 100 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept the new Article 101 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1341	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1342	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1343	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1344	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1345	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1346	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1347	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1348	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1349	The new Article 101 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept the new Article 102 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1350	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1351	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1352	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1353	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1354	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1355	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1356	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1357	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1358	The new Article 102 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does the House accept Rule 103 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1359	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1360	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1361	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1362	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1363	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1364	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1365	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1366	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1367	The new Article 103 was therefore accepted as being majority. Can the House accept the new Rule 104 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1368	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1369	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1370	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1371	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1372	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1373	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1374	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1375	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1376	The new Article 104 was therefore accepted as it is by a majority. Can the House accept the new Rule 105, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1377	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1378	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1379	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1380	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1381	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1382	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1383	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1384	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1385	The new Article 105 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Can the House accept the new Article 106 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1386	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1387	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1388	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1389	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1390	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1391	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1392	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1393	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1394	The new Article 106 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept the new Article 107 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1395	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1396	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1397	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1398	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1399	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1400	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1401	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1402	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1403	The new Article 107 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does the House agree to the new Article 108, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1404	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1405	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1406	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1407	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1408	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1409	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1410	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1411	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1412	The new Article 108 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept the new Article 109 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1413	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1414	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1415	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1416	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1417	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1418	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1419	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1420	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1421	The new Article 109 was therefore accepted as a majority. Can the House accept the new Rule 110 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1422	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1423	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1424	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1425	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1426	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1427	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1428	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1429	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1430	The new Article 110 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept the new Article 111 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1431	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1432	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1433	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1434	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1435	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1436	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1437	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1438	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1439	The new Article 111 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does the House accept the new Rule 112 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1440	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1441	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1442	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1443	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1444	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1445	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1446	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1447	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1448	The new Article 112 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept the new Article 113 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1449	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1450	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1451	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1452	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1453	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1454	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1455	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1456	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1457	The new Article 113 was therefore accepted as a majority. Can the House accept the new Article 114 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1458	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1459	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1460	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1461	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1462	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1463	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1464	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1465	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1466	The new Article 114 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does the House accept the new Article 115 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1467	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1468	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1469	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1470	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1471	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1472	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1473	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1474	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1475	The new Article 115 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does the House accept the new Article 116 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1476	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1477	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1478	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1479	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1480	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1481	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1482	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1483	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1484	The new Article 116 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number of 1242 and a special number 94 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1485	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1486	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1487	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1488	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1489	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1490	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1491	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1492	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1493	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1242 and a special 94 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as Article 117. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number of 1248 and specific 97 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1494	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1495	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1496	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1497	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1498	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1499	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1500	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1501	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1502	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1248 and a specialist 97 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as Article 118. Does the House accept the amendment with a general number of 1250 and a special 98, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1503	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1504	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1505	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1506	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1507	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1508	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1509	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1510	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1511	The amendment with a general number of 1250 and a special 98 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as Article 119. Does this House accept the amendment under general number 1243 and specific 95 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1512	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1513	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1514	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1515	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1516	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1517	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1518	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1519	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1520	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1243 and a special 95 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as Article 120. Does this House accept the amendment under general number 1244 and special number 96 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1521	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1522	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1523	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1524	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1525	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1526	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1527	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1528	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1529	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1244 and a special 96 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as Article 121. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number of 1252 and a special number of 100 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1530	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1531	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1532	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1533	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1534	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1535	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1536	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1537	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1538	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1252 and a special 100 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as Article 122. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1539	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1540	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1541	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1542	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1543	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1544	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1545	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1546	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1547	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity: ‘Retirement regulations and other insurance provisions, strengthening the protection of workers, the rights of persons with disabilities and other provisions’ was accepted in principle and on articles. We move on to vote on the bill and on the whole. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1548	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1549	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1550	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1551	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1552	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1553	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1554	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1555	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1556	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the Law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity: ‘Retirement regulations in public and other insurance provisions, strengthening the protection of workers, the rights of persons with disabilities and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1557	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1558	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-07-S1-commons.u1559	With the agreement of the House at 17.36 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday 8 September 2017, at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
